ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. Thank you for joining us. We do not have many speakers, only five. They are all eagerly impatient in the front row. Welcome, gentlemen. But the speakers who are here have asked for serious speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	We shall begin with Mr Laçin, who is going to keep us on this subject in Fidel Castroian mode for twenty minutes. But not a second longer, I say, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr President, I have seen speeches by Fidel Castro that were slightly longer than twenty minutes. I don't intend to. I'm not going to finish that 20 minutes either, so don't worry, I'd say. I'm gonna start now. I don't know how long I need exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	If I go for coffee every once in a while, you just keep talking. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. More than three years ago, the amendment of the Road Driving Education Act, the WRM, was presented to the House of Representatives. To point out that it was quite a long time ago: until recently I was not but my predecessor, Eric Smaling, registered for this debate. One of the documents at the basis of an interim evaluation is a motion by Mr Smaling's predecessor, my predecessor Farshad Bashir. In other words: this file has been going on for a while. The joint effort is to make improvements for the driving school industry. It is therefore a pity that this amendment has been delayed for a long time. One of the reasons why delays have occurred is that this amendment of the law is in line with the obligation to explain the behaviour of the dog. The SP is in favour of a mandatory vog. However, I have to conclude that this has led to that additional delay, delay in the introduction of other important matters which this law also regulates. First of all, I would like to hear from the Minister why this route was chosen, where the vog was added to this law later in the process and was not taken into account immediately or why, for example, a separate legislative process was not chosen for the implementation of that mandatory vog. Then the content of the law. I'd like to talk about a few things. I will mention the compulsory vog, the scoring and success rates of driving instructors and driving schools, the way in which practical guidance and testing is now being taken and the completion of the training programme. As I said, the SP is in favour of making the vog compulsory. In many other sectors, this declaration has demonstrated all its added value in order to exclude people with an undesirable past from the sector. We therefore see great advantages in banning cowboys even further from the sector, which is, among other things, the aim of this legislative amendment. The SP is curious to see which aspects of the vog will be considered counter to become active in the driving school sector. Can the Minister give us a look at that? For example, is it going to pass the Chamber by means of a suspension procedure so that we can talk about this? That is an important point for us. Then the question is whether we want a continuous screening or not. This is very much linked to which aspects of the Vog will be tested in the near future, but I can imagine that convictions for sexual offences will certainly be taken into account. Then I am very sorry to think that a 16-year-old, despite a vog-screening, can still be taught by a convicted sex offender because we will continue to apply that five-year term. That sexual cross-border behavior occurs during driving lessons, we know. In the past, more than once in the news, sex has been offered in exchange for driving lessons. But I can imagine that the immediate introduction of continuous screening, such as in the taxi industry and childcare, is also very far-reaching. That is why I am curious about the Minister's view. At the moment, she has the view that we are going to wait five years to see what the effects of the vog are and whether people can be excluded regularly before we intervene. That's not the attitude I'm used to with this minister. She likes to go through with it. She likes to go through with it. And I like that, too. Already after the first year there is a view on how many instructors fall through the vog-basket. Is the Minister prepared to return to the Chamber sooner than five years later with the results of its introduction? Then the success rates and scores of driving instructors. Right now, someone who teaches at a driving school can leave a review. It's a closed system. In addition, the Central Bureau of Driving Certificates, the CBR, provides a check, so that no neprecensies are left behind. The SP believes that this is a good system, because it gives potential customers insight into the experiences others have had with driving schools. But experiences are one thing, results a second. And those results aren't always drawn from reviews. Data on success rates are already available per driving school. But why aren't they linked to driving instructors, so a little more specific to the instructor? For example, new customers can see what the actual results of instructors are. In a review it may be positive that an instructor takes you quickly to an exam, but if you fail, that is not exactly a quality guarantee. We also prevent the creation of ghost driving schools, where less successful drivers are placed, so that the success rate of the actual driving school remains high. If we link that to driving instructors, you'll be done with that as well. Of course, there is a tension field between instructors and customers when it comes to how fast a person can take an exam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	Yes, the SP and D66 find each other very much in improving that industry, in a professionalization battle. You mention the success rate criterion and want to translate it into driving instructors. We can go along with that, although you also run into the fact that the success rate is not all-encompassing. How does the SP see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	Once again, the success rate is certainly not all-encompassing. It is one of the means of specifying what we all want to achieve, i.e. an improvement in the sector and the raising of quality. Now the success rate per driving school applies, so you also have ghost driving schools. There the bad drivers are housed; the better become that in the real driving school. If you pair it up with driving instructors, you're done with that. Then I know the success rate of Mr Sienot, for example, if he was a driving instructor. Making that specific can prevent a number of things. That is why, for example, we are also in favour of a compulsory vog and a different approach to the practical guidance and the test, which I come up with. These are all elements that must ensure that the driving school sector is brought to a higher and better level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's clear. Would you, for example, be in favour of targeting weaker driving schools, based on a number of criteria, instead of actually having the whole sector pass a test on forgetfulness every five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	Yeah, we should do that targeted approach anyway, I guess. If we can see or find out that there are driving schools with very low success rates or very bad reviews in that closed system that I was just talking about, we have to deal with it. But in order to be able to deal with them, we need to make everything clearer. That is why we are also in favour of continuous screening after that dog, perhaps not directly. You won't have to wait five years. A great deal can happen in a five-year period. I get a little chilly when I know that someone just got a dog and that just after that something happened, when we only find out after five years. There's no other way. These are elements to improve it. Of course, we need to take a targeted approach to weak driving schools. We are absolutely in favour of this. I'm going on. Let's see where I left off. Of course, there can be a tension field between instructors and customers when it comes to how fast a person can take an exam. But that tension field is already there. After all, every lesson has a lot of money to pay off, because what no student likes to do is what no student likes to do. So now they have the motivation to put the instructor under pressure in any way possible in order to get rid of them as quickly as possible. However, an instructor would like a good success rate. He will therefore be inclined to resist the pressure and still offer some more lessons if he feels that is necessary. The Minister's criticism is that students with lower chances of success are therefore not accepted at driving schools. But it doesn't have to be. Students with disabilities often come to specialist driving instructors. If these instructors can distinguish themselves in the overview of success rates as a specialized instructor for people who need extra attention, that problem is solved. I am very curious to see how the Minister looks at this. Mr President, a subject that concerns a lot of driving instructors is practical guidance and practical testing. I hope the Minister has already received some signals, because there is much to be done. We are in favour of mandatory practical guidance, let us be clear about that. But in a way that fits the needs of the driving instructor. The guidance that is taking place now is too far away from reality and is dismissed as a trick show for which one can easily succeed. That's something we shouldn't want as a room. Two bags for the test, that means the power to give driving lessons is taken. This is a severe sanction with great consequences for driving instructors and their families, especially when we consider that the original approach of the stricter WRM and the introduction of the practical guidance and test was to exclude cowboys from the industry. If you've been admitted to the sector and you've been running for years, can't we assume you're not a cowboy? Then why does the practical test have to have such an enormous impact on those driving instructors and on those families? I'd like a response. I have had regular meetings with representatives of the driving school industry and with driving instructors in recent months. I have heard a lot of stories in those conversations about the total arbitrariness they experience in the field test. We are talking about people who have been active in the driving school sector for 10, 20, 30 years, people with very good success rates. They have been ambassadors for this industry for many years. If severe sanctions can be followed, any arbitrariness in the field test is harmful. What steps are being taken by the IBKI to counter this arbitrariness as much as possible? What does the Minister know about this and what can she share with the Chamber? Why isn't much more tested for didactical qualities of the instructor? This increases the quality of the lesson and, after instructors have demonstrated their ability to master theoretical knowledge on admission to the course, is an important measure of whether someone is actually a good instructor, yes or no. Theory is one thing, but teaching and transferring knowledge is another. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Finally, the training programme. In the last written round, the SP was the only one who contributed. Maybe that's an invitation to my colleagues. In that written round we had with the Minister, the SP indicated that it questioned the length and freedom of choice of instructors in following the modules of the training programme, especially given the severity of training programmes in our neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium. The Minister concludes that the study tax is heavier in countries such as Belgium and Germany, but that the periodic test of practice we have does not exist there. That's what we think apples and pears are like. The practical test does not check whether the knowledge acquired from the continuing training programme has actually been maintained. I therefore ask the Minister once again why she chooses a lighter regime and why she does not want to give more guidance and weight to the training programme. The completion of the training programme is currently completely free, as long as the instructor has obtained sufficient modules. We think that's a little weird. In education, for example, we also use a curriculum, a pre-established basic knowledge that one must have at least in order to meet the desired level. In the written round I indicated that there have been a lot of developments in recent years on, for example, autonomous driving. Many technical features such as lane assistance or automatic emergency stop are often already standard in new cars. This has an impact on the way driving is taught, but it is not a standard part of the training programme. And this is just an example, I can mention a few more. Above all, I do not want to suggest that we should all decide what should be the implementation of the training programme. However, I would like to argue in favour of this curriculum, whereby we set frameworks, laying down a basis and also using modules from which the driving instructor can still make a choice. Finally, can the Minister examine the possibilities of using e-learning in the training programme? In our view, this could and should be better adapted to the technical possibilities of today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	Well, you've done well after all. Mr Remco Dijkstra from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You want to know who your underage son or daughter is getting into the car with. Hunting, actually a nice yacht, for that pink piece of paper, or now the driver's license, you want quality and no fuss. Everyone in the Netherlands should be able to enjoy a good driving education. Mr Laçin has already referred to it: this change in the law on training as a driving instructor and the demands we make on it have a long run. The original law is from 1993. In 2009 we started making all kinds of demands on the forms of driving instruction, but they proved insufficient. An evaluation was carried out in 2013. This actually results from the solutions proposed, after a lot of discussions. The aim of this amendment is to improve the quality of driving instruction. Whether it's enough or whether it's gonna work, the VVD isn't 100% sure. Of course, a tightening of the requirements to start working as a driving instructor can help, but the quality should also really increase from the industry itself. So that's what people do. There are rules that can help, but they don't guarantee it. The regulations can therefore help to filter out wrong instructors, but it is mainly the industry's commitment. We also saw the problems and abuses in this driving school industry, at least a few years ago. That is a pity, and came because, among other things, the threshold for teaching was not very high. It was easy to start teaching driving lessons and unfortunately it also lured the wrong people, or people with wrong intentions. There should be no room for that in the future. The most poignant example we all know is that sexual acts are demanded in exchange for driving lessons. That's not normal, is it? Nobody wants his kid, especially when it's underage, to be in the car with a shady driving school manager, a bad driving school teacher, or a cheater? What does the Minister think about that? With these laws and regulations, do we separate the chaff from the chaff and can we start to ward off the rotten apples from now on? It is clear to the VVD that evildoers must be prevented and the image must therefore be raised. Unfortunately, scams have also been detected. Tricks were pulled to pass your theory exam. The success rates vary widely between different driving schools. That is why the VVD is for tightening the requirements. The WRM can really do better for this in a number of areas, such as the introduction of the five-year training obligation, such as a compulsory examination for the instructor, where there may be the power to give driving lessons, including the chance of a rematch. If you don't make it by then, it could be over. There is also a need to agree on the time needed to pass a good exam. And what does that mean? A more practical exam content, also for re-enterers. An explanation of behavior becomes a requirement. These changes broadly support the sector. The student wants to get the coveted paper quickly and cheaply and the parents are not waiting for wrong instructors and support their children in it. Although the profession of driving instructor seems simple, there is quite a bit to be a really good driving instructor. Not everyone can do that and not everyone will be a good driving instructor. It's gonna take more than that. The explanation of the behavior is a relatively easy beginning, but doesn't say much at the end of the ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Dijkstra advocated taking the test every five years and at least maintaining it. Does he not also see that this is actually ineffective at the moment and that the punishment is disproportionate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	If you want to get your driver's license, you're gonna have to take your exam too. That's pretty black and white: either you pass or you fail. Why wouldn't that also apply to a driving instructor? He will have the opportunity for a rematch if he doesn't make it. There could be a reason. You need to think about that with each other and talk about it. He'll also have more time to re-launch. He'll have eight weeks to do that. If you don't make it then, or you don't, it should be possible to keep people out of the business. If you don't, if you say there's no need for exams at all, it's a bit of a free pass. I think we want to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	I understand Mr Dijkstra's argument, but in practice we see that in recent years fifteen or sixteen driving school holders have been penalised. Are those the rotten apples he's talking about? I have strong doubts about that. I would like to argue much more in favour of qualitative practical guidance and then remove the sanction, so without the pressure that the SP was talking about. That's what the riding school holders experience as a sword of Damocles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	Sword of Damocles or not, 99% of the driving school holders just succeed or else a second time. So it's a small part. Whether those sixteen people are the rotten apples, I don't know, but at least they're people who, despite a rematch, haven't been able to teach them how to drive. I think that's necessary. Just as well as a pilot has to maintain his license and a doctor has to train, we want to do something similar for driving school holders. Whether such a practice exam should be the trigger, I think so. But looking at what's needed is a continuous process. Hopefully we'll share the end goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	VVD and D66 find each other absolutely in improving the industry and in looking at how to professionalise the driving schools. But you say something interesting. You say if you're gonna get behind the wheel as a motorist, you need a driver's license. But also the driving instructors just took an exam. They are authorized to teach driving lessons. Do I understand from this line of reasoning that you want regular drivers to take another driving test every five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	No, but when you teach, you do it to a lot of people. Then it can be no harm to check once in a while whether someone can indeed transfer the skills needed to perform his or her profession well to his or her students. That is what it is about: that the students are well trained and that they come to the ice properly and well stocked, so that they pass the exam. But that also applies to the instructor himself. It has to be in order, it has to have a teaching method that fits well, so that students can finally get the driver's license. I don't think it's that crazy that we're going to test that. We do that in a lot of other industries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	Again, we'll find each other at that improved practice. However, the practice should improve. We've been on the road for nine years with this rule. Do you see that rotten apples, for example, are being taken out? You see there are higher success rates? Are there really demonstrable effects on the basis of which you say: this is good, so should we continue with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	No, not yet. That is what I shall come up with in the course of my speech. I can see that we are setting some rules and making some changes to the law. Often it is even a relief for the industry, but then the industry has to live up to its quality. I am very curious to know why I have drawn up a few amendments which have just been distributed, whether we are achieving the objective. That's what's always at the heart of me. If we write down things that we're not gonna do or have no effect, then you have to ask yourself what we're doing. But I do think that we should find out together that there have been abuses. That has been a long run, but now we have to do something. We cannot say: we do nothing and we leave it as it is. All steps are just welcome. I certainly see a number of good steps in this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	We know the VVD as a party that wants to counter bureaucracy. What we are doing today with this law is pulling some officials behind their desks. They are going to test benevolent driving school holders, who have been in the profession for decades, in a childish way whether they are able to teach people. That's ahead of us now. Does the VVD also think that this could not be the intention to remove excesses from this industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	No, I don't share that analysis. I don't share your analysis of officials leaving behind their desks. What I'm curious about is where the enforcement agency failed, so we're gonna put the ILT next. It certainly should not be the intention to take away people's profession in a childish way. That's not the point. The point is, we'll see what we need together. The point is that the driving school holder has an obligation to make sure he is up to date, but also that he can prove that he is capable of doing his job well. I think most people can do the same. This is simply necessary in order to take a first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u22	I have one more question for the VVD colleague. Can he explain this to me? Suppose you succeed in your five-year training. How do we prevent people from still walking away in those five years after that and that these excesses can still exist for five years? 'Cause I don't think we're gonna tackle that with this law. I really think of this as a tissue for bleeding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u23	That's right: every exam is a snapshot. But if you make it, at least you've proved you can do it. I also hope that people just follow the rules and teach the students in a good way. 'Cause they're vulnerable, too. I hope that they prepare their students for the exam in a fair and fair way: not too much teaching and not too little. I hope they stick to what everyone expects, what we think is normal, and that this industry can actually start the clean-up that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u24	I know Mr Dijkstra as a Member of Parliament who always says that the sector, the industry, should take care of it most of all. In this case I very much agree with him; but not always. In the discussions that we have had, it is clear from the report that my predecessors have made on this subject, the driving school holders and the instructors also said that they do not necessarily want to get rid of this five-year practical guidance, but that it needs to be redesigned. I'd really like to listen to that. That sanction's a hell of a lot. That is why I put that question to the Minister. Above all, it is also a question of connecting to reality, to reality. It doesn't work. It is now finished with: if you master a few tricks, you will pass that practice test anyway. Do I find the VVD at my side when I say this? Let us listen to this industry together and, above all, let us call on the Minister to respond to it and to engage with this industry association and the instructors in order to achieve a proper form of practical guidance. That makes us both, and the whole sector, happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u25	The short answer is yes. I think an exam is always a snapshot, but it's a continuous process. I do think there should be some way of checking it out. How you set it up is a second. But it must be in line with our wishes, namely that the driving school industry improves in quality. That's good for everyone. We need to take a pragmatic approach to this. Mr. Chairman. The VVD considers it important that the quality of driving training is and remains truly guaranteed. You have to assume that if you go for a driver's license, you will be trained by a good instructor. This is also important for road safety in the Netherlands. I just mentioned it. After all, all those students when they succeed actually come on the road. Then you hope they didn't do a trick but actually ride a little bit. We don't want amateurs on the road. For crooks, people who take money from students or do not deliver quality, is simply no place. Consumer protection is therefore important, as is the fight against fraud. The Central Bureau of Driving Certificates, the Training Institute for Driving Instructors and the ILT will monitor this and will be able to impose further requirements within the legislation. But why hasn't that worked out so far? Why did we have to wait until this law change? What role has the current supervisor played in recent years? Why does the ILT have to go next to it? What's wrong with you? Why didn't they intervene when they needed to? Isn't that the basis instead of extra regulation? Mr. Chairman. A brand of comparison I've seen a number of them from the industry, especially if these branches are to work together more and come up with one kind of label. What role can we possibly play in this, so that you can make a comparison on objective grounds? Something else is a mandatory photo on the pass, on the WRM certificate you get. Then you can quickly check if someone is actually qualified to teach and you know who you're dealing with. Is it Hans or his brother Henk? Of course, that's a difference. That photo used to be standard. Let me show you what that looked like, a little picture on a piece of paper. Nowadays you get a pass, but there's nothing on it. It's safe to know who you're dealing with. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be complicated. I have an amendment for it. But if it can't be in the law, then just by a motion. It's not complicated. Compare it with a library or swim club pass, or a ski pass with your photo on it. I don't want us to build all kinds of IT systems for this, but I just want you to see that it's Henk, Hans or Pietje. You name it. Mr. Chairman. Everyone must be able to enjoy good driving training. I therefore hope that these rules will also contribute to improving the quality of instructors. Is that what they're gonna do? That is my key question to the Minister. Otherwise, we must prevent the medicine of regulation from being pulled out of the box over and over again, even when the industry is asking for failure to enforce ourselves, or lack of self-regulation in the industry itself. That is why I also have another amendment to evaluate after five years, to amend the law if necessary and to allow the amendments to lapse if they do not have any added value. I'm closing up. I wish the driving school sector every success in improving its own quality. I think that's what everyone wants. I have also noticed in all conversations that the involvement of the driving school instructors is really super large. I've heard many passionately talk about their work. That's good. It's a beautiful profession and it's really good for most people, but let's get the rotten apples out of it where we can and should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you. Then Mr von Martels of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You do not have to expect a filibuster from me either, which I assume you will vote positively. Mr. Chairman. In general, the CDA Group can agree to the law. We mainly see positive effects. However, there are aspects that I would like to draw the Minister's attention to, because with this new law, the driving school industry will not suddenly function in a great way. In recent years too many incidents have taken place in the driving school industry, which has caused a significant dent in the image. A high-quality impulse must be administered. In principle this sector should be able to regulate it itself, but in practice we have seen for many years that the driving school industry is not capable of doing so. How is the Minister going to persuade the driving school industry to put things right for itself? The CDA wants to make a number of suggestions and we would like to hear what the Minister thinks about this: excluding crooked driving schools from the CBR, harsher penalties for cheating on exams, bullying with success rates, naming-and-shaming and Dutch as a language requirement. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the five-year training period remains mandatory. Failure to take part in this process means disqualification from teaching. The aim of continuing training should be to improve the quality of driving lessons but also to share knowledge and experience. It must have the character of an in-service training and not an examination. So there's no sanction. The CDA also wants stricter admission requirements. Starters must have at least five years of driving experience and be able to provide an explanation of behaviour, for instance, which is already one of the initiatives being taken. What does the Minister think about that? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the future. Can the new driving become a permanent part of driving instruction? That would be good for the wallet and the environment. Can the Minister outline how she will arrange driving instruction for self-driving cars? Who do the cars have to take the exams with? I can't wait to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u28	Let me ask the CDA about that sanction. One of the stronger arguments for the sanction is that it does not become non-binding. How does the CDA see the occurrence of some kind of non-binding exam that no one is going to participate in, which means you're gonna miss your goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u29	I agree with Mr Sienot that it should not be voluntary. The Minister must consult with the driving school industry to ensure that this training takes shape in such a way that it is effective. That's where we all want to go. A more effective way must be found to ensure that this quality impulse is given. How exactly should that be done? As I said, in conjunction with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u30	That's a little vague. I assume that if you want to abolish something, you will also have an idea of what we are going to do to achieve that common goal, quality improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u31	You see in all kinds of sectors that there are opportunities to do so. You can think of a professional register. I have already said in my speech: at least make sure that this training is compulsory and that it is registered. The recording of incidents in the sector should take place. There must also be an independent body to test, in the sense that if things are really not acceptable, there will be reprisals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u32	I have a very short and clear question to which I also hope to get a brief clear answer from Mr von Martels. As far as the CDA is concerned, does that sanction just go off or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u33	It's going off as far as the CDA's concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u34	I would like to talk about the training programme, not about practical guidance. This now has a very non-binding character, as long as a number of modules are followed. I wonder if the CDA Group agrees with us that we need to see whether we can also give this training programme a basic framework. I called it 'the curriculum' so that developments over the last few years, but also future developments, can be taken into account and so that the driving instructors who are also obliged to follow them somewhere in the context of improving the knowledge and quality of the industry. How's the CDA in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u35	Extremely positive. I tried to bring that in during my very brief introduction, but that is the essence of my story: make sure that a quality impulse is given. I didn't say how to do that, but the fact that it has to be done in a certain way is one thing that is certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u36	In my opinion, I have also said very clearly in my speech: let us look together with this sector at what this training programme should look like. But let us ensure that it does not remain as non-binding as it is now, that we do set certain frameworks to reach a certain level. I'm glad to hear the CDA agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u37	I think we can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u38	I do not quite understand Mr von Martels, but I might be able to clarify it. He just said quite boldly on the question of the PVV colleague whether that sanction should be removed: yes, it must be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u39	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u40	But you said two sentences before that: then there must be an authority that can check and register. And also that there's a consequence to it. So what's the consequence, if you don't have to take an exam, if it's all noncommittal? And who's gonna do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u41	In any case, let me make it clear, it certainly shouldn't be non-binding, but that test, which has been around for nine years now, simply doesn't work. So we have to get rid of that. That didn't work out what we expected. Then you must also be so tough to say indeed at some point: we should not continue with that. We need to look at other ways to at least ensure that the quality we are all asking for will be delivered in the future. That can be done without a penalty, but something has to replace it. In particular, the Minister should consult with the driving school industry. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u42	I think that's a bit gratuitous, because there's a law in front of it now. You can say that you don't like it or that you do and that the Minister should consult, but we are discussing a law here. If you want to change things, I assume you're making proposals to amend that law and get it done. That you have thought about who is going to do that, what sanctions should be and how we are going to get that practical examination in such a way that it becomes acceptable. I haven't heard about that; I hope it will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u43	I don't feel the need to go into that right now, because I did say something must be done. If, on the one hand, you say that something must be organized in conjunction, then you must indeed have the confidence that it will be properly arranged. On the other hand, you have to draw conclusions from past experience. One of those experiences, which we have and which drivers also have with the exam, is: it doesn't work, it doesn't match the fact that you want a quality impulse given. I told you that 16 driving school holders were sanctioned for the denial. But it is very doubtful whether those were the driving school holders you are talking about in particular. You think the ones we're talking about were the rotten apples you were talking about. I doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u44	With the latter, you have a point, because I don't know. I cannot say that either, but what I do find strange is that this is not a general consultation. This isn't a run-in after the last nine years. After nine years, we've been working on legislation. You yourself, like me and everyone else, have spoken with a lot of drivers, from the one-pitter to the big industry organisations and everything in between. This is a lawsuit. We're about to vote on a law. Then you must have some idea what you're doing and then you can't say: go in consultation. Or isn't that in the law, doesn't that matter so much but is that much more in effect, in practice in a moment? Do you really allow the Minister to do that and then just vote for the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u45	I can be very short. I started with my input with: Chairman. In general, the CDA can agree to the law. Only this point, when it comes to that sanction, we want it off. In other ways, I don't feel like changing that law right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u46	Then, of course, a special situation arises. As Mr. Dijkstra just pointed out, we are now treating the law. There's a penalty in there. Mr. Von Martels says, "I don't want that sanction." How are you going to bring that to the Chamber now? Because if you vote in favour of the law, you are in favour of the sanction, but you are also giving the Minister the room to remove that penalty in its effect. I don't know how you're gonna fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u47	I intend to table a motion on this in order to prevent that sanction from remaining on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u48	So adopting a law that doesn't contain the sanction is unnegotiable for the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u49	That's right. It's as clear as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u50	There's a break. Mr Van Aalst of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Retraining is important. Once upon a time, the introduction of navigation systems brought with it a great need for learning. Today, those are the assistance systems. Think of the automatic systems that can temporarily take over the steering wheel, such as sudden braking, traffic jams, parking, maintaining the right speed or staying in your lane. These assistance systems can also provide you with more information, for example by giving you a blind spot view or by helping you with sign recognition. Furthermore, we will all have to learn how to handle self-driving cars around us. In short, there is no reason for a driving instructor to be bored with content. The fact that we have a Driver's Training Act in the Netherlands is helpful and helpful. But what has been sticking out for years is that we have supplemented the training with the mandatory test. Those who fail to do so will lose their right of instruction. For many professionals in the driving school industry this is a sword of Damocles hanging over their heads. In fact, the test moment brings with it a lot of financial uncertainty. Am I gonna lose my business, or am I gonna have a five-year delay in execution? It is a widely held feeling that the examination is carried out by officials with little sense of the profession, sent out with a rigid checklist. It'll be beeped in an hour. Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, we ask the driving instructors to show us how they work. We want to see what can be done better so that we can offer tailor-made training. On the other hand, we want to pay them hard for every mistake they make. Then where did that safe learning environment go? Where can the driving instructor still be vulnerable? Mr. Chairman. It's okay to be clear. This perverse system needs to be kicked. The present legislative amendment is only an economic start. The time limit to arrange replacement is increased to eight weeks. The examination will also be more practical. Both are improvements, but it's still a tissue for bleeding. The time for muddying is over, we have to deal with the real problem. In the Netherlands, your instructional power can be declared invalid on the basis of a single test. This is not the case in our neighbouring countries. Therefore, the PVV says: please look at what works. If it turns out that it makes sense to test a new driving instructor in the first five years, then we should. Keying to their experience, that's quite something to say for it. It's just at the beginning that you learn a lot and it's nice that you have to take back on what you've learned in your education. But for experienced driving instructors, this test is completely nonsensical. For that group, you have to think of something else. Determine their learning needs in consultation with experienced driving instructors and offer quality further training. That really makes the Netherlands more secure. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the European Commission. The Netherlands has asked that a large number, often older professional drivers, have proof of professional competence without having completed compulsory training. In order to avoid an inter-group procedure at the EU Court of Justice, this cabinet has decided that some 30 000 drivers, of which approximately 11,000 professional drivers, should undergo continuing training. It is scandalous to see this cabinet yielding to European pressure. Stand up for our own people! It is ridiculous that drivers with decades of experience are suddenly labeled as a danger on the road by a technical change from Brussels. Europe is not about this, and the Netherlands must lie right in front of it. As with the driving instructors, stop attacking our properly trained drivers and engage constructively in discussions about the possibilities for further training. Then you will see that there is a great deal of goodwill to make improvements. Mr. Chairman. So finally, Minister, come out of your ivory tower and talk to this fantastic sector, which ensures that everyone is properly trained before they take part in traffic. This is an essential link in improving our road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Remco Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u53	I would like to hear the views of the PVV on the following point. If you google how many driving school holders or people with a WRM certificate there are, it turns out there are over 8,000. A few years ago, there were about 5,000. This increase has been caused, among other things, by the fact that people who joined the UWV were told that while retaining benefits they could start a driving school quite quickly. What do you think of that? On the one hand, it is good that people go to work and there will indeed be successful stories, but it may have attracted wrong people as well. How can we solve this with each other? How do we prevent people with wrong intentions, who may have been among them, from being or staying in driving school?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u54	I agree with Mr Dijkstra on the influx we have had, which we have actually facilitated as a government itself by saying: you are unemployed, you are just a driving school holder. That's what the driving school business really doesn't do. Not all bad people have flowed in, but there are excesses we want to lose. Hence my proposal to check at least the first time after five years whether we have got the right people in the industry, so that we do lose the excesses but still have the benevolent ones. But after those five years, we should simply proceed with compulsory training, as far as I am concerned. To put in another sanction, to say to someone who has been a driving school teacher for ten years, "you open the door in the wrong way and you look in the mirror in the wrong way," shouldn't we want to do that with each other? That doesn't bring anything, does it? That does not mean anything for road safety and nothing for the industry either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u55	Okay, clear. Then there's the explanation of the behavior you'll need in a moment. It'll last for five years. What do you think of that? That doesn't say much, does it? Yeah, that you got the statement. That's one thing, but you can't put everything in order. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u56	Indeed, I agree with my colleague from the VVD that the vog is a limited means. It's good that it's there, but it doesn't say everything. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u57	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Sienot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. D66 wants professional driving schools for road safety drivers. We want to stimulate a culture in which drivers get better and grow with new developments. When I listen to all the speakers and when I see the Minister's input, I think everyone wants it: the industry, the minister and all the parties here. The only question is how. The current solution is to provide practical guidance with a firm sanction. The objectives of this measure were twofold: we are going to take out the rotten apples and we are going to increase the success rate. In its entirety, we wanted to contribute to road safety participants. This is what you'd think. That instrument started nine years ago. We've been nine years. I'm sure there'll be something visible about those targets. We'll be able to measure it somewhere. We'll see somewhere that the success rate is increasing significantly. Maybe we can see that there are really fewer bad apples and fewer incidents. But if I listen to today's speakers, both Mr Dijkstra and Mr Laçin of the SP have made it very clear that we are far from there. We don't actually see any improvement. That's got me thinking a lot. So we have an instrument with which we catch unlucky birds. 99% of the candidates succeed, so we don't get the rotten apples out. So we've developed a system that punishes driving instructors with exam stress, because they're being filtered out. The same applies to people with bad luck or a disease. And yes, there will be one that was also a rotten apple at that sixteen a year, but there are also a lot of those rotten apples below that 99%. They're legitized by the government. After five years, they've got their paperwork and they're allowed to move on for another five years. Mr. Von Martels from the CDA said so. That is what I see, that is what I hear and we would like to see differently. There's something else we can see. We see that the Minister is fully behind the sanctions. We see a tremendous power of persuasion and persuasion in holding on to those sanctions. Of course, you may choose to do so, but we see that same conviction and drive to change something actually rather in a professionalization of culture. D66 therefore wants to move from a settlement culture to a permanent learning culture. Current practical guidance is theoretical and has little to do with practice. My colleagues have explained this very graphically, so I do not need to spread too much. Changing traffic rules, changing insights into responsible driving behaviour, becoming increasingly crowded on the road and driving support options, emission-free driving and even self-driving are added. So there's something going on. I would say that there is every urgency to get to work. Real professionalisation, real learning is done by watching others, through professional education, by coaching in the car with direct feedback and intervision. And that is now completely missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u59	I agree with Mr Sienot that it is a continuous process of learning, education, integrating new techniques into your teaching material, etc. You must never stop. But that doesn't rule out this law, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u60	That doesn't rule out the law, but he's not that specific about it either. That's the point. We are very specific in the sanction and little concrete in professionalisation. I miss that, and I'm sorry about that. If we set up practical guidance on the things I just mentioned, you can work with a means like a driving school register. Is the Minister prepared to look together with the industry at how this could be introduced? There's something else. The current arrangement is rather unfocused. Anyone who is a driving instructor, whether he has a fantastic or a very low success rate, has to retest every five years. That is as if they collectively suffer from forgetfulness, because that exam is also just a beginner's exam. It is therefore unfocused, ineffective and disproportionate. That is why we propose to make it truly targeted. For example, make a driving school inspection aimed at schools which have a structurally lower success rate or where other complaints are made. Come up with that, find out if you can, really work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u61	In response to the interruption, you have already completed your text, I see. I appreciate that. Mr Van Aalst also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u62	I would like to ask my colleague from D66 the same question I just asked Mr von Martels. I also feel that you think that sanction is a little perverse. You have a lot of comments on the law. What are you saying? Do you want that sanction from the law? Do you want the law back to the drawing board? What can we expect from D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u63	A fair question and my answer to it is the same as the answer to Mr von Martels' question. We've prepared a motion together. As far as we're concerned, the sanction goes off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u64	... Sorry, Mr President, I did not see Mr Sienot's reaction coming. I'm not used to him being that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u65	Haha, I've been walking with you for a while...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u66	I am glad that you are very clear and say: a law in which this sanction is contained is indisputable for D66. Obviously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u67	I would like to ask Mr Sienot the same question about further training as I just asked Mr von Martels. We have the practical guidance. We agree on this: there is a great deal to be changed. Practical guidance should be more closely linked to reality. We need to listen carefully to the driving instructors and get that sanction off. I have proposed to make a curriculum for the training programme, with basic requirements to be met by driving instructors. What does the D66 Group think about that? Does Mr Sienot agree with me that we should give more substance to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u68	I think that's a very good thought. I think it's good to combine it with something like a driving school register. I also say immediately that I want to leave it mainly to the specialists. On the one hand, you have the didactic specialists or the people who know how to achieve professionalisation. On the other hand, of course, we let them be called by name and by name, the driving school holders themselves, united in the BOVAG, the LBKR and you name them all. I would like to say that let us combine this knowledge and make it more active than has been the case so far. I'm just gonna say it again: it's not clear anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u69	In any case, it is good to hear that D66 also thinks that we need to do something with this training programme and that we need to make improvements and perhaps a curriculum together with the sector. I agree with D66 when it comes to professionalisation. That's what we all want. I believe that the law regulates some good things, but that improvements are still possible. It's good to hear that at least we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u70	I hope that you will also support the motion that I am preparing. We'll see. I stayed at the driving school inspection. The good thing about that is that it can focus on improving weak schools. I would like to leave the precise criteria for this, which we have just discussed in an interrupting debate, to the experts, but I think that the success rate is an important indicator. In view of the development of all new technologies, I am also very curious to see how the Minister intends to work on promoting emissions-free driving. The point is that people no longer have the fear of: yes, but then I have to drive a different type of car, or then suddenly I have to drive automatically instead of switched. Can we give that a place in the curriculum? Is that part of the conversations with the industry? In short, Mr President, before D66 it is basically this: help the industry to do it yourself as quickly as possible. We do not necessarily argue for more rules, but help the industry, with the right tools, to regulate it itself. That's basically what it's all about. This law is very clear in what has not necessarily helped over the past few years. We believe that this is a defect and we hope that the Minister will be able to respond very clearly to it in a moment. For now, thank you very much and on to traffic-safe participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u72	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I note that we share with the Chamber that the profession of driving instructor is a very responsible job, because we all think it is extremely important that our young people and sometimes also older people who are trained to obtain their driving licences should come to the ice as well as possible and that they are well prepared for all possible situations if they are to participate in traffic. This is in the interests of all of us, because it obviously plays a major role in road safety. Several members have already recalled that this has been a fairly long run. Thought hasn't stood still in the meantime either. I am only going through a little bit on the subject and not entirely by spokesperson, because you have in fact all drawn attention to the same issues. I am now going to start with a specific question that Mr Laçin has put on the screening profile of the vog, which, fortunately, you have all said, although of course you can never give a guarantee, the profession of driving instructor is so responsible that we feel it is important to make those vog requirements. For practical reasons, we have designed this in such a way that, when the time comes, the Vog declaration can be presented. That's what we'll be running into in the next five years. In order not to add too much red tape again, it has been resolved in this way. Mr Laçin had specifically asked about the screening profile. It is connected to similar profiles already in existence for driving instructors at the BOVAG and examiners at the CBR. We've been looking into that. For the time being, these are mainly criminal backgrounds in the following areas: dealing with information systems, dealing with financial matters, providing services, dealing with vehicles, passenger transport and dealing with minors. There are the aspects that Mr Laçin has already touched on about the driving lessons that would be paid for with sexual services and so on, all of which, of course, are far from us and which you certainly do not want our young people to come into contact with. Another question that can be seen on the vog: why not introduce a continuous screening into the vog immediately? We think this is a very important tool, because it is used in childcare, for example. Especially if this is weighed against the cost of implementation. I fully agree with Mr Laçin and others, who speak of rotten apples and, like Mr Laçin, cowboys. Well, cowboys belong as far as I'm concerned on a horse or maybe on a cow, but certainly not in a car. So we should not pretend that this is what the whole driving school industry is about. It's a limited group that ruins the image for the rest of us. It is perhaps a bit similar to a football stadium where there are a lot of enthusiastic, hardworking people and where a very small club also thrives for the rest in terms of image. So we don't think it's proportional to sit on top of that all the time. If all 14,000 driving instructors have applied for that dog in the next five years, we can immediately look at the refusal rate. If it turns out that in the first year, I would just say to Mr Laçin that a lot of driving instructors are no longer eligible for further training, then that could be a reason to say: we are going to screen continuously. But we don't have that clue right now, so we're gonna check it out later. Why not give more guidance in the theory re-training? That was also a question. There is, of course, always a relationship between theory and practice. It is also both important, but the basis of the theory of course the driving instructors all have. I agree with what many of you have said in the Chamber: it does not serve any purpose if it becomes a kind of mandatory number that everyone already knows exactly how it will go. Looking in the mirrors and so on, you really don't have to ask a driving instructor anymore. But what is important, of course, is the developments over time, whether it is about the variations of the emission-free driving that Mr.Sienot is talking about, or about the new technique, the keep your lane, the adaptive cruise control, excusesez for all the English terms, it colors within the lines and all the other technical possibilities. Of course, there has been a whole change of navigation in recent years. We may also have to deal with self-driving traffic on the road. I believe that Mr von Martels also called for attention to be paid to this. There are undoubtedly a lot of new developments that are coming to us. Then it is of the utmost importance that driving instructors keep up with these new developments. They also have 'lifelong learning', which actually applies to all of us. For road safety in particular, it is very important that this practical training is really in line with current practice. We are also in consultation with the driving school industry to achieve this and to implement it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u74	Following the Minister's reply, there are 8,000 driving schools in the Netherlands and just over 14,000 people with such competence. If I understand correctly, it's only been five years. That means that a fifth of those 14,000 soon or when the law has entered into indeed needs that vog. That's about 3,000 people, a little less. I wonder how many of those 3,000 people aren't gonna get through the background checks and don't get that vog. Is the Minister prepared to inform us about this, and just to report it to a regular AO every year, so that we can monitor it as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u75	I do not think it is a problem to report to the Chamber every year how much this has happened. I was just taking a run at the question: how are you going to make it more practical? We are indeed in consultation with the driving school industry. I can just mention a few things that we are already making agreements about with the driving school industry. There has been talk of a register for driving instructors. That register for driving instructors should be easily searchable, including for students. The CBR will provide additional information linked to this. Candidates can therefore check more easily whether their driving instructor is competent. When it comes to a driving school register: all driving schools that really have the driving school competence are on the website of the CBR, because there the success rates can also be checked. The first step for a student is therefore: if the driving school is not on the website of the CBR, then it is not a driving school, just to put it very practically. That's what it starts with. Another step is to include a genuine pupil in practical training. I think that is also very important. In future, therefore, in the field of practical training, we want to take the step that someone who does not have a driving licence actually participates in it. Now it's still the case that an instructor can also bring someone who already has a driver's license. To make it as real as possible, I think that is also an important step. For the final test of the test, the IBKI also intends to designate itself which subject is being tested, rather than the driving instructor himself. So you can also build a quality step in that. Furthermore, we have been able to agree with the CBR that the campaign on the website and social media to better prepare students for the choice of a good driving school will be intensified. We intend to implement all these improvements within the next 12 months, because in the short term we will continue to discuss with the industry and then we will discuss medium- and long-term measures. Another thing we have also agreed on is that parties can pass on suspicions of fraud more quickly if they have it to the ILT. It's been agreed that that's going to happen. I would like to mention, for example, a situation which I do not know which one of you put forward in that situation, in which those who have succeeded are mentioned under the name of one driving school, while those who have failed are all in another 'leg', which is covered by the same person. We are talking about so much freedom in the choice of this training. So that's what we're going to do: the IBKI is going to decide which subject to review. In the direction of Mr Van Aalst: once again, I think it is also wise that the IBKI should take into account whether the driving instructor repeats for the first time or if he has already been three or four times, but then I fall into repetition. I really think that should be taken into account. With a man or woman with many years of experience, you focus on the new in-car technology, for example. Here in this house something is sometimes changed in the legislation on traffic. We now have experiments again with a moustache bike on the lane, and so on. When I see Mr Sienot, I immediately think of the speed pedal: where should it or not? These are all things that constantly involve changes in traffic which driving instructors need to be well informed of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u76	I hear the Minister say that the IBKI is going to identify the modules to be followed for this training. I am already glad that there is more to it, but I find it a bit strange that the IBKI is going to do so. What role does the industry itself play in this? Do the instructors and the driving schools have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u77	Sure, because we make these agreements with each other. We are also working with the driving school industry to see how this can be done in the best way possible. I would also like to assure you that as soon as we have a more precise effect, we will inform your Chamber. It actually makes sense to keep you well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u78	I am pleased to hear from the Minister that she is going to make a distinction between the practical training of new driving school holders and the practical training of experienced driving school holders, but the magic word has not yet fallen, namely'sanction'. On this point, too, I would like to see a distinction between experienced driving school holders and those who receive training for the first time after five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u79	It's not like we want sanctions to bully driving instructors, not at all. Several Members of Parliament have indicated that it should not be non-binding either. Then what means do you have to prevent it from being non-committal after all? If people do appear at such a practice test but do not pass that test and then simply proceed to the order of the day, that can not be the solution either. Even if it is only a small number and even if it is only sixteen, it is road safety. So we're doing this to make sure there's sufficient protection. And it's not after once; it's after twice. We're expanding it, too. I also think it's very real to say: it's quite something for your company. So I think it is quite right that you should have a period of eight weeks for that. I am also prepared to discuss this further with your Chamber, but if it remains without consequences... Mr von Martels has already indicated that it must have consequences, but I would like to know what consequences that would have. We could talk about that, but if there's nothing to it, it's hard for me. Because what is it, in fact? Then you depend on the good will of people. That's what the vast majority of them have. It turns out so, because the vast majority does it and makes it, but the group of evildoers wants you to be able to put the pin on the nose. That's what I'm looking for. That is why we have chosen this method, which is indeed a very heavy one, but it is also a very serious one for society. That is why we are choosing this sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u80	Two things. We do want to get rid of those excesses. We want to get rid of the cowboys, as the minister just called them. That's right. As far as I'm concerned, they are in those first five years. With driving school holders who have been doing that work for 10 or 25 years, I don't feel that they are still excesses, that they are still people who are constantly crossing the line. I feel that they do not need the sanction. The in-service training in all these new techniques is. That's what we just let you know. My second point is this. I am shocked, and I am concerned about that, that apparently the only time we can tackle a driving school manager who is misbehaving in the industry or impose a penalty or deprive him of driving licence is during that five-year course. So in those five years, he can do what he wants. There is no way the Minister can withdraw his driving licence immediately. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u81	No. Even now, the police and the judiciary can simply act if there are signs of fraud. You are right to say that we are not yet here with the industry. That is why we have said that a role for the ILT cannot hurt in this. We have just agreed with the industry that signals of a serious nature about fraud, of course, the colleagues also know each other and they all meet at the CBR..................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that's another improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u82	I hear the Minister looking a little bit, too. I have another question about the 16 failed last year. This year it's 16 already. Did those 16 people prove that road safety was at stake? Or was it also about drivers' teachers and teachers who did their job well, but didn't make it through bad luck or imperfections? On what basis can the Minister say with certainty that these 16 cases have in any case contributed to increased road safety? Because that's what I hear the Minister say in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u83	You can never rule out very special cases. But it's not that one snapshot. You're gonna get a rematch, and then you're gonna have eight weeks to fix it. Maybe it doesn't have to be the cowboy or the person with criminal backgrounds. It's not like those sixteen are in there. But if people have not kept their skills in order with regard to the new techniques, then that is also a reason to say: then perhaps you should make sure that you have it in order before you can take up your profession again. They're not excluded for life. They just need to get their skills back in order. I do not think that these are unreasonable demands, because otherwise 99% of people would not be able to make it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u84	I hear in particular that a lot of people, including those who succeed, experience tremendous stress. I think we rigged a system that filters out unlucky birds instead of rotten apples. I hear the other parties actually say, except for the VVD. I could also imagine the Minister saying: we're gonna take this off and we're really gonna look for something else. We find each other absolutely that the non-committality should not go off, but at least let this instrument go off first, because it filters out unlucky birds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u85	I'm always willing to look for improvements with the Chamber. We have opted for the sanction that is now in place, because we do not know a better brake on this non-committalism. If you know a better alternative to that, then of course I would like to look at it. But the point is, it can't be noncommittal. You have to protect society from people who don't have it in order. Fortunately, it's only a very small percentage. But if you don't really want to make a point of it and not stand up to it, then it's a wash nose, and neither do we want to be together, I guess. So you have to maintain some kind of deterrent effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u86	We do not want to bully drivers or driving instructors. I don't think we want any of that. We are now focusing on the 1% that may not have made it. Only, the number of driving instructors or driving school holders who do not like this whole practical guidance with the corresponding sanctions at the moment, even though they do, is of course much larger. We have to listen to that. We shouldn't just look at that 1%. We have a very good industry and we're all trying to make it better. The group calling for better practical guidance and training is simply much larger. That is why I very much agree with the Minister that no commitment can be made in any case. We shouldn't want that one, either. But in my contribution, I have also mentioned that the sanction that is now in place is simply very strong. If people don't make it, there's gonna be huge consequences. The Minister invites us to consider other sanctions in order not to allow this non-committality. I think the sector has very good ideas about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u87	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u88	Yeah, I just got there, Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister prepared to consider the other possibilities for a given sanction before this law enters into force with the sector? It should not mean such a major intervention in people's lives. I do not think that is what we want, precisely because 99% of us do, and above all because everyone wants to improve quality with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u89	I choose to deal with this non-committality at least. I very much agree with Mr Laçin and other speakers that we need to ensure that the implementation of this test is really found useful by all the people who have to take this test. I believe that steps are being taken to really improve that. We do not want driving instructors on the road who either do not have the didactic skills, or do not have their knowledge in order or in any way cannot do their job properly. In the context of the vog it is a different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u90	Agreed. The only conclusion we can draw now is that with the current form of sanction, namely the withdrawal of power, we are not filtering out the people we do not want on the road. Otherwise, it would've turned out to be. Now people often fall due to the arbitrariness of the IBKI, because the first instructor, for example, asks something different than the second. That is what I mentioned in my contribution. I asked for that, so perhaps the Minister will come to that later. We have to prevent that. Not arbitrary, but appropriate practical guidance and appropriate training with perhaps another form of sanction! We make a lot of people in the industry happy with that, but yet I hear the Minister say that she is holding on to this sanction. I do not see much room for that, while the Minister pretends to give it to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u91	I think there should be some kind of sanction. When the Chamber says that it finds the sanction now before it disproportionate, I would like to hear what alternative sanction it sees. 'Cause that's how it works here. Then we can advise on that. This has been a very long journey. This has been discussed with a lot of people, and it has come out best. That's how I present it to you. Mr Dijkstra also said: what if all this does not work now? Well, of course this wasn't poured into concrete for eternity. As well as I have just promised to inform you about the number of vog statements that cannot be issued and what that results in, I am, of course, also prepared to see if this works. Is this enough? Are the improvements in the practical test good enough? And how does it work out with that sanction? Sure, you can always reconsider the sanction if it turns out it affects the wrong people. I would also like to answer the question as to where the sanction has now been imposed. We checked with IBKI. In these cases it was about the didactic skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr President, you know me, I would like to be clear. The PVV always wants clarity. I just received very clear answers from the CDA and D66 colleagues. I was happy about that. I'm looking at the sanction. We all agree that something must be done, but I believe that the majority here today is not happy with the sanction. We're not gonna agree on that today. Is the Minister going to stick to the sanction she has now laid down in the law, or is she now also counting her buttons, and does she see that a majority of the Chamber is indeed not happy with that sanction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u93	I have just indicated that I am willing to trade our own solution for a better one. But I'm gonna need it first. As long as I have no alternative, I think we should at least have a sanction, because I do not want us to do our utmost to get the best quality test possible and then it does not matter whether or not you get it. I don't think that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u94	In any case, I hear the Minister's willingness, if we come to a good solution today and amend the Minister's law, to drop the sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u95	Well, not the instrument sanction an sich. I'm just saying that if you don't do it right, it has to have consequences eventually. I have just heard Mr von Martels say that. It can't be that it doesn't matter at all whether we have good practice tests or whether it doesn't have any consequences how you get out. I can't imagine any of you would want me to. You're not doing it for nothing. You want to ensure that you have good driving instructors on the road who can transfer the lessons to the students and who are also well aware of the latest state of the art. Then there must always be a key moment in it and with keys it's just part of being able to make it or not. Then it can't be that someone who doesn't make it and actually doesn't follow it at all, can eventually continue in the same way as the person who has invested his time in it. I can't really say more than that. We've been asked why we're not going to publish success rates per instructor. The CBR does not publish reviews of candidates. Percentages per instructor is a very understandable idea, but that is not allowed, because the CBR cannot control who has taught. A student does not always have lessons from the same instructor throughout his period. They go on vacation or get sick once in a while. Moreover, that instructor does not necessarily have to be the one attending the exam. Then you come in a little bit compared to success rates in schools. They're also related to the schools. There you can't see which physics teacher has higher success rates for physics. The idea is understandable, but in practice it is unrealistic to implement it. There are, of course, specialist driving instructors and you have also asked questions about this, for example for people with physical disabilities. That really requires different skills. Driving schools can also indicate this on the website of the CBR. There are also special teaching programs and opportunities for driving off for people with, for example, failure. This is therefore already taken into account in a special way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u96	At the point of success rates per driving instructor. I hear the Minister say that there are technical aspects to this. I'm very curious if the Minister will support the idea. If so, we can always look at the effects. It refutes this argument that a driving instructor does not always ensure that someone takes the exam or that he can take a holiday or retire in the interim. In the end, I think all driving instructors put people up for exams. That may be a few less on holiday or a few others, but in principle that is the work of a driving instructor, training people and having the exam taken. In that sense, I do not think that is the case. I think it matters to a potential client, someone who wants to take driving lessons, if he can test on the driving instructor and not in driving school, because we also have ghost driving schools. That is what I mentioned in my contribution. By not doing it, we're maintaining it, too. How are we gonna prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u97	I don't think we should solve the problem of these ghostry schools this way. For example, the ILT will also be able to play an important role in it by seriously identifying signals from it. I find this trying to link to that individual driving instructor disproportionate. It's almost impossible to do that either. There are people who, so to speak, have classes twice a week, where they have one day and the other day. If it is a so-called one-pitter, you can find it right away, but of course there are also driving schools with many more driving instructors. If three people have taught someone, which one of them will be awarded the successful or unsuccessful candidate? This drug seems to me to be a bit too far-reaching. We do not apply it in education, nor do we apply it anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u98	Everything has a first time, I'd say. Again, I hear all the reasons why the performance of success rates per driving instructor would not be feasible: disproportionate, undoable, three driving instructors. But we also know the practice. The practice is just very often that a customer is taught by one driving instructor. If you teach at a driving school with multiple driving instructors, it may change because that one instructor may have a double appointment or a day off that day. But we shouldn't pretend that's the rule. I got my driver's license and you, too, I suppose. I've just had one person's lesson and a lot of other people too, unless they've consciously made the choice to switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u99	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u100	The question is to look at this anyway. I think it helps several aspects in improving quality, e.g. ghostry schools. The minister says we're not gonna solve that. How? That could be a question. However, I would like the Minister's open mind not to necessarily look at the implementation, but also at what we are dealing with here and how we can make the implementation follow-up. That seems to me to be the goal we're all pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u101	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u102	Well, then I'm gonna go a little bit over the top. I think we need to deal with ghostry schools in a different way, with signals about fraud that the ILT can investigate and so on. It is not common in education in general that you go back to calculating who has the highest percentages per teacher. I also find it disproportionate to introduce this first for the driving school industry. I like that there are success rates on the sites. I think the average of a driving school is enough for that. We must work together to increase the success rate. That's why it requires more quality impulses, just industry-wide. To start the individual driving instructor with success rates to count on exactly how much he or she scores, I find disproportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u103	I'm starting to notice some progress. I really liked the Minister saying that she would trade in her solution for a better one. I think that is what we are looking for in this debate. So this is a wonderful debate in this respect. For a better solution. As I said in view of the 16 cases, there are also unlucky birds. Now the Minister says that there are also cases of people who somehow endanger road safety. We don't want that. Is it possible to cut more in that trajectory? If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, I'll make a comparison with people who have jobs. People with jobs don't have to take exams every five years and again, if they don't make it, and then it's seen. That's different. If you underperform, you will find yourself in a kind of trajectory that focuses on your improvement. At some point you can shake hands, then you can say goodbye. It's open to employers, too. I understand that's what we expect from driving school teachers and teachers. What I don't understand is that we're doing it this rigid way. So can we make a cut between unlucky birds and people who put road safety at risk? Can we ensure that people who can provely disrupt road safety work on that route first, so that they know at some point: we're going to shake hands, it's over?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u104	Well, actually, this is how we do it. We're not saying you can't be a driving instructor for life. We say you have to make sure you get the knowledge and skills right. You'll get a second chance first. Then there is a period of eight weeks to put your knowledge in order. If you find those eight weeks too short, Mr Sienot, that is of course something we can discuss with the Chamber. If you say it has to be a different period, then we are looking for a cut that you will find real in order to get it in order within that time. But if that doesn't work, it'll stop. If only we could find each other in the idea that it should stop once. Someone should have a real chance of getting cleaned up. The period has been extended, because at first I thought it was very short. It's not realistic to expect people to do that within a week. So we have now said that we give eight weeks. The CBR indicates that it is cooperating on this. It is not about very large numbers of people and makes sure that you can really recover within those eight weeks. If you still think that is too difficult, the debate should, as far as I am concerned, be about what you think is acceptable. But I keep thinking that someone should get it right eventually. As far as I'm concerned, that can't take years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u105	That's where the minister and I will find each other. Of course, we all want good driving instructors for road safety drivers. The question is whether this is the means of achieving this and whether the sanction contributes to this. We have all found to a greater or lesser extent that this is not the case, hence the search. Whether that period should be longer, I find it difficult to judge. I am concerned that we are able to separate the unlucky from the people who are demonstrably putting road safety at risk and transfer it to new drivers. I'm trying to figure out how to tighten that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u106	I think that once again we really need to focus on the quality of the test. I have just given a number of examples of what we want to do about it in conjunction with the industry. I want to take away the suggestion that it's purely a lottery and that 1% happens to be the unlucky one who doesn't make it. I get the feedback from IBKI that in these cases it was a lack of didactic skills. We really want people to have that in order before they take up their profession again. If you find eight weeks too short, we can discuss that. But it has to have a consequence in the end. That's all I can say about it. Mr Laçin asked about the possibilities of e-learning, especially for the further training of theoretical knowledge. That has been investigated before, but there are a lot of concerns about the sensitivity to fraud. That's the answer I got back. It is always the question of who has followed the training on-line: the driving instructor or someone else. Of course, this is not a problem for the preparation, information and the teaching material, but it is too complicated for testing. If you have meant to make the knowledge that is needed available online, then that is no problem at all. What does the Minister think of a label for the industry, asked Mr Dijkstra. If the industry wants to set its own label, I think that is a good thing. For example, the industry itself can indicate what it means to be a good driving school. One can make the distinction in quality and put it as something positive in marketing: "we meet a quality mark." That is, of course, up to the industry itself. Asked why the ILT is appointed second supervisor next to the police and how exactly that will work. The ILT will initially focus on the obligation of instructors to return invalid WRM certificates to the IBKI. Police continue to be the primary enforcement authority for road checks. The ILT will further collect and analyse signals on unauthorized teaching from the industry and possibly from consumers through the reporting and information centre. And on that basis, of course, they will take enforcement action or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u107	Reasoned from a student, a girl of 17,5 who is taking lessons. She signed up with the driving school manager. He's got a good success rate, so why not? The hourly rate is good and she wants to get her driver's license. She's actually thinking after the first or second lesson: I don't know if this guy can get it across properly. She's anonymously filing a complaint to the ILT about her driving instructor. Can you do that with the ILT? And what does an ILT like that do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u108	If it's anonymous, the ILT can't use it very much, unless there are a lot of signals coming in about a particular driving school. At the ILT you can also easily file a complaint with name and name, by making yourself known. That will not be further disseminated or published. It depends, of course. If one time someone happens to hate the driving instructor or has had an altercation with it, the ILT will of course not immediately dive on top of it. But as is the case with all these signals at all: if there are multiple complaints about a particular driving school or a certain instructor, you will of course talk to the CBR about that and then you will take action on that. Then maybe you'll let the cops stop by there sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u109	And we have enough capacity for that, too. It's settled, or it'll be settled in a minute. But these are examples from the practice, from someone who takes lessons and thinks: now the driver puts his hand on my knee and I am not served by that; I don't know if I want to spend another 20 lessons with that gentleman or lady in the car. There's got to be something you can do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u110	Then I'd say after one time, "Don't do it anymore." But I understand the question. The ILT operates risk-driven. The same applies to this subject. They don't just show up at all the driving schools. That should really focus on notifications coming in, either from customers, or from the CBR, or perhaps from colleagues. It really must have some substance. It shouldn't be the case that one driving school manager, so to speak, is going to click anonymously to get more customers himself, by saying: well, that neighbor of mine is making a mess of it. That kind of thing is all filtered out. So there really must be some serious clues. The self-driving car. Mr von Martels has already asked with a very futuristic look where to drive off. The answer to that is still to be found. The Netherlands is already very progressive because we are thinking about it at all and working on it. Such a self-driving car must of course also be technically safe, and so on. There will still be a lot of water flowing through the Rhine worldwide before we have the software so that he can really make the decisions on his own. So I don't see the self-driving driving instructor coming into being right away. What we are doing is, above all, trying to imagine this and be prepared for how this should be done. But that is really still in a very innovative, scientificly discovering phase. In particular, the National Road Traffic Agency is working on this and is seriously considering how this could be done in the future. Of course, thinking must never stop. That development is coming towards us, so we need answers to that. Mr Van Aalst spoke about code 95. You are very sorry that the European Commission has launched an inter-group procedure in the direction of the Netherlands. It is well known that you would prefer to decide all of this on your own, but we have agreed things with each other in Europe, including on professional competence. I think we have made good agreements with the industry on this too. It is not the case that people now suddenly have to do this training. We've seen that coming for years. I think we're working that out in a good way now, too. It doesn't really have much relevance to this debate either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u111	Last week, in an AO on road safety, we found that the Minister indicated that he sometimes disobeyed Brussels. In this case, too, I would like to ask her not to take too much interest in Brussels, but simply to let them have a good time with their parties and, above all, to let our transport sector continue to do their job and not be engaged in this kind of opportunityless exercises.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mr Van Aalst says that I sometimes disobey. It wasn't like that. Maybe on other fronts, but not in this context. What we are doing is simply taking advantage of the opportunities that Brussels offers us to fill in things in a way that is our own. In this case, code 95, that's not going to happen. Like all European Member States, we simply have to meet these skills requirements. We have tried in many ways over the past few years to put this into practice. That was said in the end: no, that is not acceptable. You're the last country that's gonna get this done, or we're gonna impose fines. That's why we're gonna do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u113	It's bizarre that the Minister's ears are hanging on to Brussels. When we look at our transport sector, at our drivers, they provide a fantastic quality in this sector, especially when I sell it to, for example, the Eastern bloc drivers who all do comply with code 95. I'm really surprised about that, and I don't believe a damn thing about it. I would like to insist on the quality we deliver as a transport sector. We must be proud of our drivers and, above all, we must not let our ears hang over the horrible monstrosity there in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u114	I share Mr Van Aalst's pride in our drivers, in our logistics sector, but I do not have the feeling that I am letting Brussels go. We consciously choose to harmonise this type of competence requirement so that you can also trust that all drivers from Europe who drive around here have had a good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u115	Madam... Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister say that those 16 cases have been filtered and finally failed because they did not have good didactic skills. Is the Minister really convinced that this has contributed to road safety in the Netherlands? Perhaps even more important is my question: was the success rate among the candidates who taught them bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u116	I understand that Mr Sienot greatly cares about the fate of these sixteen people. But the vast majority succeeds. If I get the feedback that these sixteen people were about didactic skills, then of course I can't go back one-on-one or have had very big consequences for road safety in the Netherlands. If they had kept driving, they would have had a good success rate. We want people to have good didactic skills. So that's what they're being tested for. If it is not right then they will be given the opportunity to work on it and make it right. Of course, you can always think of cases. You can never cut it with scissors. That is also not to be ruled out by any legislation or rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u117	Yes, ma'am... Mr. Chairman. Now I'm doing it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u118	I think you're obsessed with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u119	I actually hear the Minister say: I do not quite know with the sixteen cases. And what I do know is that we want to achieve more road safety. Well, so do we. She also wonders that binding character is the trick? And says: at least we want to prevent it from becoming non-binding. Well, so do we. But this drug, this way, is too rigid. I could imagine saying: that way we punish unlucky birds, that's what we're going to stop. We're gonna look for something better. We are going to implement that better, but in the meantime we are not going to stick to a sanction that we have to observe, in all honesty, that it does not contribute to all the goals we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u120	I really do not agree with Mr Sienot. He is now suggesting that it is purely a lottery, that these people, so to speak, have just rolled out of the tombola. I cannot, of course, take back in an individual case what that would have meant for road safety. But, of course, it is not the case that they didn't make it for nothing, by accident, because they didn't like the examiner. It's just been looked at seriously. It's not just a small group for nothing. But then you can also assume that there was something really wrong with it. When I get the feedback that there was a lack of didactic skills, I think we shouldn't want those people without putting this right first just to go on as if they were as good as all the others. It's not like they're never allowed to do this again. Let's see. I've had all this. Mr Dijkstra spoke about a passport photo on the pass. That passport photo should then be processed by IBKI. This amounts to an additional processing of personal data, for which there should also be a good reason under the applicable privacy legislation. I understand the need. We are also discussing alternative measures with the CBR and IBKI. For example, IBKI has agreed to make the power checker more accessible in order to control the power. But making a passport photo mandatory on the WRM pass is a very heavy tool. I'd like to have a little more time to see if there's another way we can improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u121	We shall now come to the amendments I have before us. Perhaps I'll come up with a motion, if that's easier. The privacy and all the requirements are now being brought back in, because it is a passport and registration and because it has to be in the systems. When I go skiing in Winterberg for the weekend, they just take a picture, they stick it on a pass and that's it. And then it's laminated. It shouldn't be that complicated. I mean it's really simple, just to see if it's Henk or his brother Hans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u122	But I think it will be different if Mr Dijkstra suddenly presents himself on his ski pass as the ski instructor. Then you'd like to know if this is true. That picture of Mr. Dijkstra is indeed on it, but did Mr. Dijkstra complete that training? You have to get those two things back together. Otherwise, a driving instructor can take a passport photo himself. It is a combination of identity and competence. You have to bring it together. I would like to talk to the sector about how we can make this clearer. Mr President, I think I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u123	Oh, that's great. That's just what I was gonna introduce you to you. I'm suspending until 12:45 p.m. for lunch. Then you can all have a bite to eat. At 12:45 p.m., we will continue this debate. Then we're gonna listen to the second term of the Chamber. I would also like to say this for the political group secretaries and secretaries of the administration. So after lunch, we don't start the arrangement right away. At 12:45 p.m., we will simply start with the second term of this debate. The arrangement will not take place until 2 p.m. this afternoon. These are just a few water levels for the people in this building. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u124	I'd appreciate it if the spokesmen were in the room. I was just reading an order debate. To this end, I would like to give the floor to the first spokesperson of this debate, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a good first term, with a good debate. Above all, we have also discussed the sanction that comes into the law. The Minister has come with a hand-off; she has asked us to come up with a counter-proposal if necessary. We want to do that, but we can't do that in half an hour in a lunch break; we think time is too short for that. That is why we in the Chamber have had discussions and want to postpone the second period of this debate until the week after the autumn break. The second deadline can then be used to come up with a counter-proposal, an amendment, an improvement in the law so that everyone is happy with it and we can also improve the sector. Hence the request to postpone the second term until after the autumn holiday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u126	That seems to me to be a very clear suggestion. It's pretty simple, then. I'm gonna see if there's a majority for that proposal. If that majority does not exist, then you have not won it and we will continue with the second term. So I'll need a majority of MPs, not of those present. After all, people are all speaking on behalf of a group and I count the number of members they represent. Mr Van Aalst, whom I am the first to give the floor, speaks on behalf of the PVV and then brings in 20 votes, that is what I will do. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u127	Support for this proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr President, I would like to support this proposal with the 19 votes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u129	It's going to be a bit of the Eurovision Song Contest. May I have the votes of the D66 Group, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u130	Also 19 votes in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u131	It was indeed a good debate we had with each other. I understand that a number of Members are in need of a few more accents. We have had an open debate with each other, which is really worth a compliment. I think it's a bit of a shame for the people who have come, because we'll move on another time. But I agree with that, if it does improve the proposal. And I do believe that we are indeed holding on to that timetable, so that the law does not go into delay either, because the need to improve the industry is certain and everyone wants to get to work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u132	I think that's pretty obvious. There is now a majority for this order proposal, so to postpone the second term until the first week after the autumn recess, if I say so. That is what has been accepted. Then I would like to thank the Minister for her presence. She can go home a little early today. Oh, not home, you say? Then I would like to thank those present for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u133	I shall suspend until 2.15 p.m. and then we will have the order of business.
