ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of the member Van Nispen amending the Law on Primary Education, the Law on Centres of Expertise and the Law on Primary Education BES to introduce rules on the qualification of teachers and to establish a minimum number of hours for movement education, Section 34420. I would like to welcome Mr Van Nispen, who has been defending an initiative legislative proposal for the second time this year. In the defense of this bill, he is supported in trade-K by Ms Hanne Drost, policy officer at the SP Group, and Mr Cees Klaassen, director of the Royal Association for Physical Education. Welcome and compliments for your work, because it is always a challenge to prepare a good bill. Thank you for that. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. He has a special role to play, because he is today, at this bill, the advisor to the Chamber. Today is only the first term on the part of the Chamber. The answer will be given at a later date, of course in consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u2	I give the floor to Mr Kwint as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You may be surprised, but when I was in high school, not so long ago, I wasn't always the easiest boy in the class. You wouldn't say that now and then, but every now and then I couldn't concentrate so well and my priorities were different from the priorities of some teachers. There was an English teacher, an excellent English teacher by the way, who attached great importance to structure, tranquility, cleanliness and regularity. I've learned a lot from it, but at that time it sometimes bumped. After a schedule change, I was in his class on Thursday morning. After half an hour he came to me surprised and said, "Have you just had a gym?" What's wrong with you?" And indeed, I did. The first hour was gym; the second hour was English. Let's get out of here, move for a second, clear your head: it'll bring peace. I can see that now that I'm a Member of Parliament. Sure, it's good for your body, but it's at least as good for the mind. It is also good for the well-being of the teacher who tries to teach you something to your heart's content. That is why I am so glad to be able to speak here today about my colleague Van Nispen's bill, about more and better movement education. And who better than Mr Van Nispen can submit this proposal? The fastest MP, I dare to gamble, with a personal record on the 5 kilometers that is well below 15 minutes. On another occasion we're going to talk about computational education, but I've already converted it: you'll soon be running about 20 km/h. Normal mortals like me already work in sweat when they do that on a bike. But the main objective of this law is not to create new top athletes. The purpose of this law is divided into two parts. First of all, it's good for the students. And secondly, my example of my English teacher illustrated that part of it is good for the teacher's workload, also at elementary school, not only because the children are quieter in the classroom, but also because you don't have to move those three hours a week with the children to the gym with them. That'll take over a qualified lecturer. You can use that time to prepare your classes or to do other things you should have done outside of school. But more about that later. Let's start with the importance for the child. Unfortunately, more movement is urgently needed. Children often sit behind a laptop or tablet. They play less outdoors. They move less or worse. That is also reflected in the figures. One in seven kids is too heavy. We see it in practice, at sports clubs, where trainers notice that children can jump harder and harder, buttocks or knee-lifting. Later too, on training for police or defence, instructors are increasingly finding that there are fewer fit young adults. The physical tests, which are so important for this training, are more and more sta-in-the-way for more and more candidates than before. That's bad for police and defense, because they need new people incredibly. But it is also bad for these people themselves, who see a job that they would like to have passed by. Perhaps just one question in between: to what extent is this proposal going to solve all these problems? I have a lot of confidence in my colleague, but these may be a lot of problems at the same time. In almost all European countries, schools give more gyms than in the Netherlands. In almost two thirds of these countries one must give two clock hours a week, often more. Denmark, France, Hungary, Poland: three hours of gym or more. Is it really true that of all European countries students in the Netherlands receive the least number of hours of movement education at the bass school? Just as this problem was not resolved tomorrow, it did not arise yesterday. In fact, politics has spoken many times about the importance of more and better movement education. Balkenende IV, Rutte I, Rutte II: all of them wrote in the coalition agreement that it was very important that there should be more and better movement education. The only downside, here we are: it never came. The reality appears to be more persistently influenced by governmental agreements, sectoral agreements and declarations of intent than many people thought. Then legal anchoring is obvious to us, even though it is certainly a rather wonderful figure in primary education, because that is where we work with end-terms and goals, and not with quantified hours per subject. Physical education is a strange profession in that sense. I think that, for example, Mr Heerema, as the only qualified teacher of movement education in our midst, can confirm that. The added value lies not only in a final term, but also in what you can ultimately do, how high you can jump, how far you can get to the cooper test or how well you can reverse the pole of your classmate, but in the hours itself, in moving, in learning to deal with your own body and in getting used to physical movement. It is not for nothing that we still work in secondary education with a prescribed number of hours for physical education. In fact, an exception has been explicitly made for gymnastics, precisely because it is a different subject from the other subjects. When the curriculum for secondary schools in the Netherlands was dropped, the agreement was explicitly made that schools would continue to give the number of hours they gave for that time. Of course, more can always be done, but the number of hours given in 2005 still provides the framework for inspection. That does not mean that I will be honest with you about the fact that I have only heard enthusiastic sounds from education. I'm gonna think about that for a little longer. But for us as SP one simple starting point weighs very heavily: if you want to make children move better and learn to move better, you organize it at the place where all children come together and where the children are primarily learning, so in the school, through education. And yes, I have heard some teachers sigh: another social problem that is thrown over the fence of education. That frustration is there for a reason. Because whether it's about healthy eating, tying up your shoelaces, bullying, waste separation, sustainability, Israel-Palestine conflict, sticking your band or not, there's always someone calling for education to solve it. In fact, last year a party came up with the plan to force schools to build a vegetable garden. Fortunately, that proposal disappeared from the news even faster than one of the VVD's test balloons. Because, of course, creating a healthy environment in which there is sufficient movement is a responsibility of the parents. But the reality is, first of all, that unfortunately it does not always happen. The various worrying reports on children's reduced mobility show this, as do the increase in overweight. You will not be surprised that the SP also wants to combat inequality of opportunity in this area, in line with the advice recently issued by the Sports Council, the Education Council and the Health Council. Speaking of advice, how does this bill actually relate to moving twice a half-hour every day, which is discussed in the Sports Council's opinion? Secondly, children's learning to move has been seen as an important task of education for many years. That's not crazy either. No school doesn't teach movement. The word says it all: education. It has long been a task of education. It is up to us, firstly, to set a standard and, secondly, to enable education to implement that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u4	Like Mr Kwint in my speech, I am going to say something about the opinion Fun in moving, from among others the Education Council. Mr Kwint is asking a question to his colleague in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but what would his answer be? I read in that report a perhaps even higher ambition to move twice a half-hour a day and at the same time schools are given more room to fill in that in their own way. How does Mr Kwint look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u5	I do not know whether I agree with Mr Rog that twice a half hour of moving schools offer more space than three times a week for an hour. In addition, I believe that this proposal provides the necessary space for the completion of movement education and for where you do so, whether it is a school square, a gym, a swimming pool or a football field. So I actually don't think I agree with your assumption. On the other hand, I'm not asking these questions for nothing. I wonder how the author sees these two cases in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u6	I asked the question because the Pleasure in motion report emphasizes, for example, sports coaches and all kinds of alternative forms of movement to leave that space, while this initiative severely restricts schools by giving three hours of gym education by a professional teacher. So there's less space to who it gives and it's very precisely filled out what it has to be. This leaves less room for manoeuvre in relation to what the advice of the Education Council, among others, means to further stimulate movement in general and not just to limit it to gymnastics by a professional teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u7	I think that is perhaps also an important difference between the advice of the Sports Council, the Education Council and the Health Council and this bill. The opinion of these three is about movement, while Mr Van Nispen's initiative law is about movement education. I really think that's two different things. Education is passed on by a qualified teacher and in this case a professional teacher. Why? It is precisely because of the specific nature of this course that you also do something about the workload of the other teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u8	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u9	So education. It has long been a task of education and for us to set A the norm and enable B education to carry out this task. In addition, there are some other advantages inside and outside the school. We want a healthier and more sporty society in the future, and that is why we need to start young. Young learned, old done. Young people perform better when they're fitter in class. If they can perform for a while, they are often more concentrated. Ask my old English teacher. Sporting and moving is also good for developing your social skills. And a frequently under-exposed aspect in this discussion: this bill does indeed reduce the workload of the other teachers at primary school. Everyone here will recognize that the enormous workload is a great source of discontent for teachers in primary education. It was one of the starting points of PO in action and one of the main action points during the educational strike and it is still about the main stumbling block I hear from teachers when I am on a job visit. And then they're gonna have to play gym with it. Some people like that. Many people still experience it as ballast, as something that comes with it. And it's not everyone's hobby. That is the core of movement education. Don't let that depend on hobbyism. In future, let us give this course by the people who have studied for it, that professional teacher, people who have been specially trained for it at the Academy of Physical Education. My question to the author is whether he can clarify the added value of this training and, above all, whether there are sufficient ALO-trained teachers. Because that is a matter of concern to us. How many extra teachers are we going to need and how are we going to convince so many extra people to choose this course? Are the courses ready at all? Moreover, the SP is not the only one who believes that this proposal can reduce the workload of teachers. That's what teachers think more and more often. It is not for nothing that a large number of schools in the drafting of the work pressure agreement have decided to opt for a specialist teacher in movement education, precisely in order to overcome the workload. In my view, this means that the proposal has only become cheaper in recent months, which is good news for the petitioner, because more and more schools have already made this choice. In the meantime, does the petitioner have any idea what this will cost us? How many extra gym teachers have been hired lately? However, this proposal is going to cost money, additional teachers, possibly extra gymnasiums. In the meantime, it will be a little less than the 275 million Mr Van Nispen mentioned earlier, but it will cost money. For the SP one thing is certain: those millions are not found in primary education. Every euro is very much needed and, as far as we are concerned, we would like to add a few more euros. Unfortunately, the first proposal I made during the budget debate has now been rejected. I think it is a good idea: we will remove the Primark premium, bring it to education, make the labour market healthier, make the children healthier, and make the workload in education healthier. That seemed like an open door to me, but the rest of the Chamber thought differently. Then the question is, what now? Now I read in the study that Mr Van Nispen himself had done, that social profits might well exceed the cost. That's not so crazy either. Anyone who has ever studied prevention reads in practically every research on prevention that invests in preventing something is cheaper than repairing it afterwards. But if profits are broad in society, shouldn't the initial investments be? I am thinking, for example, of the general resources. We had 3 billion left this year. You can pay for at least ten years of movement education. And who else benefits from a healthier society? Health insurers, for example. Less sick people mean less costs to pay, and the reserves are already astronomical. Can we possibly get some of the contribution from there? You can hear it: there are plenty of possibilities. I think it's about political will. In the written input and comments I read that there are people who use the freedom of education as an argument against this law. I think that's kind of silly. In my opinion, the school struggle was not about how many gym parents should have, which I think was primarily about parents' right to set up a school that fits their beliefs and to get funding. You can find all kinds of things, we will probably have another discussion about that, but I haven't come across any belief in life lately that doesn't unite with three hours of movement education of a qualified professional teacher. So in that sense, I am not concerned about the freedom of education. Eventually, it's a weighting of interests. If the SP then has to choose between, on the one hand, the importance of the school to obtain at all costs the maximum freedom to organise education entirely at its own discretion and, on the other hand, the importance of children to avoid motor delays that they will not be able to catch up with later, then we choose the best interests of the child. Besides, there's still a lot of freedom. I've just switched that with Mr. Rog. The way in which movement education is completed remains with the schools. When, how and even where: gym, school square, football field, swimming pool. The latter brings me to my closing, one of the SP's favourite topics in recent years: the pool. For us it has been impossible for years that children's swimming skills in such a watery country as the Netherlands are deteriorating. School swimming can literally save lives. At the same time, it's not that much more than what you might call "a wet gym class." You just take the class to the pool and learn how to swim. So you move, too. But school swimming is still disappearing. It dies at a rapid rate. Every Dutch child should be able to swim and preferably have two or three diplomas. Why is that not in the proposal, I ask my colleague Van Nispen. With that wish, I would like to conclude my speech and wish Mr Van Nispen and his support every success in the further defence of their proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u10	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld as the second speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u11	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the author of the legislative proposal. There is a lot of talk in the Chamber about the importance of movement education and it has been observed for years that there is not enough progress in this area. We are very pleased that this bill is there, not only because it offers the opportunity to talk about this important issue again, but also because it mentions very concrete measures to make children move more. Because I am for GroenLinks both spokesperson education and spokesperson sport, it is of course extra fun to talk about this important theme. This bill also actually proposes to stop making very non-binding agreements and really do something. We're happy about that. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there are also enough objections to not let everything that happens be done by education. With these eyes, we have also looked very critically at the proposal before us. At the same time, we note that there has been a great deal of talk in recent years about the importance of movement education. It has been discussed in a debate in the Chamber, there have been administrative agreements, there have been agreements and in previous government agreements there has been constant mention of movement education. But despite all these talk sessions, we didn't see much results, and that's actually crazy. When we look at the coalition agreement of Balkenende IV, there was a passage about movement education. Rutte I's subsequent coalition agreement stated that the cabinet is aiming for more athletic lessons in primary, vocational and secondary education. There was a similar passage in the Rutte II coalition agreement. After all these years of failure to reach agreement, I was surprised to see that this cabinet did not say anything about it at all in its coalition agreement. We find that strange, because there were not for nothing agreements on movement education in the previous government agreements. If you then find that nothing has happened to it, you would expect further action to be taken instead of being completely silent about it. In this case, Mr Van Nispen takes responsibility, not the coalition parties. That deserves a compliment from Mr Van Nispen. Mr. Chairman. Moving is healthy, we all know that, but yet our children are not moving enough. The Health Council raised the alarm a few months ago, because Dutch children sit still for an average of ten hours a day and almost half of the children in primary school age do not comply with the movement guidelines of the Health Council. There are more alarming figures. For example, children often end up in hospital with fractures, because motor skills, for example, are deteriorating. Moving is not only good for the physical condition, but also for social development and the mental and cognitive plane. In common human language: just moving is good for body and mind. There is evidence that by moving more, children's learning performance is also increasing. I've made this point before, and I'm doing it again, because science doesn't stand still. We know more and more about the development of the brain and its consequences for how, for example, children learn, but we do not translate this into education or into policy. I just said: there are many indications that learning performance is going up by moving and there is also evidence that by moving some areas in the brain are being activated, which are beneficial to the learning process. Recently Professor Scheerder gave a very interesting presentation to the House of Representatives about what moving does to stimulate brain areas of young children. Mr. Chairman. These are all reasons to move well and move more, but there are many more good arguments. Through movement education, children learn skills that they also take away from school and later on. Research shows that children who have a positive experience of sport and exercise at a young age will also start to exercise and exercise at a later age. So movement education at a young age is also good for children when they grow up. At the same time, we must note that the Netherlands is lagging behind the rest of Europe when it comes to movement education. In more than two thirds of all European countries, at least two hours of gymnastics are given. In the kindergarten classes, the Netherlands seems to match this, but from the third grade, children are only offered an hour and a half of exercise education on average. 400,000 children only get a gym for 45 minutes or less a week, too often by an unauthorized teacher. The applicant proposes to make it compulsory at three hours a week. Our first question is why was chosen for those three hours. Why isn't that two hours or four hours, for example? Is there any scientific evidence that three hours of movement education is the most effective? That is what we are looking forward to. Mr. Chairman. The aim of this bill for more movement education is to support GroenLinks wholeheartedly, but we still have a few more questions. My group is of the opinion that the petitioner also says that movement education should be given by professional teachers, from toddlers to upper education, because if we really want our children to learn how to move better, then the profession must also be given by professionals. A good side effect of this is that it relieves regular teachers. They will then have some time to prepare a lesson, fill in the apprenticeship follow-up system and arrange other things that they often have to do at night or at weekends. There is a price to pay, because the number of hours of movement education and working with professional teachers simply costs money. It takes hundreds of millions of euros to have three hours of movement education in all schools by a professional teacher, but we also see that the calculations are quite different. We see calculations of EUR 150 million per year, EUR 275 million, but we have also seen amounts of EUR 790 million passed. We have also heard that more funding is needed in the first few years. Can the author comment on this price tag? And can the Minister do the same? GroenLinks sees that this bill leads to an improvement in public health both at a younger age and at a later age. This can also lead to lower healthcare costs. It is nice that the initiator has had this further investigated in response to a question from us. That is also good because it shows how seriously the questions we have asked in the written preparation have been taken. This study shows that if the legislative proposal continues to work out between 12% and 37% of children when they leave school, the investments of 275 million, which the initiator assumes, can be recouped. Of course, we can never predict with 100% certainty that this will happen, but my group thinks it is a realistic scenario after reading the report. Fortunately, the Minister is also present and we would also like to know from the Minister whether he considers the health gains described in the report to be realistic. What's the Ministry's assessment? Mr. Chairman. The Minister has previously concluded an agreement to reduce the workload in schools: the pressure agreement. We know that part of the pressure equipment goes to the use of professional teachers and we also know how much money is involved in total. What are the latest figures on that? Here too, my assessment is that perhaps the Minister can answer the question better than the initiator. I would add the question as to whether the Minister agrees with the author that the bill could reduce the workload. So how does the Minister look at that? How does he see this bill, even for the future? Mr. Chairman. One more question about professional teachers. Where does the petitioner intend to get these professional teachers from? Does he see enough wax at the ALO? There should be an additional 100 students per ALO. Is there sufficient capacity for this in training? Is there enough enthusiasm for this? Mr. Chairman. Then about locations. Especially in shrinking areas and in small schools, there is not always a gymnasium at the school and so there is a need to emigrate to other locations. So this proposal also puts a lot of pressure on schools, because if you first have to take a bus to another location, it just takes time. We see that especially small schools are currently employing fewer vocational teachers. Does the petitioner recognise the signs that small schools in particular could be in trouble with this proposal? Is this initiative proposal also subject to a shrink check, so an additional test to see what this proposal means for schools in shrinking regions? That's what I'm curious about. By the way, not only small municipalities are involved, because the municipality of Rotterdam also indicates that it expects capacity problems through the implementation of this bill. Do municipalities have sufficient resources and opportunities to expand sports accommodation, for example? I would like to receive a response from both the petitioner and the minister. Mr. Chairman. My group is also curious about the timing of this proposal, because the debate on a new educational curriculum is currently taking place. Can the petitioner indicate how this bill relates to this discussion about the curriculum? I notice that when a social problem is identified, education is very often looked at. On the one hand, I understand that well, because education ensures that our children are prepared for society. On the other hand, we cannot ask everything from our teachers. That is why we believe that it is important to talk about professional teachers in the proposal. GroenLinks also argues for this. But schools have a limited number of hours of teaching and, of course, there must also be read and counted. All the other requirements we impose on schools must also be respected. So there are limits to what we can ask of schools. How does the petitioner view this? Does he see this as an additional obligation for schools? Does he see that it's hard to ask from schools? How does he see that in relation to the extra workload? I also ask the petitioner whether he sees the opportunities of large schools and of integrated child centres, where an additional range of movement is often created. How does this fit into the offer given by the IKCs, for example? GroenLinks, for example, advocates a right of access for good extracurricular care with a programme that fits and is also an addition to what happens at school. Here is also room for sports and exercise. How does the author view that? Is that also included in the consideration of the bill? Mr. Chairman. We are also curious whether the petitioner has spoken to the sports associations. They can also play an important role; for example, look at the Tenniskids@school project of the KNLTB, the tennis association. This is a very nice project in which an out-of-school shelter or a school can purchase a lesson package in order to get in touch with tennis. I was there a while ago, when at the Square a lot of school classes learned tennis in a fun and accessible way. You let me in on my own. With my limited ability to play tennis, that was very useful, but it was especially nice to see how very young children got acquainted with tennis by playing not a full game, but easy-to-access exercises. Such initiatives are important. We are curious whether the proposer of the proposal has talked to these unions to see if you can include these types of projects in the proposal that is before us. Mr. Chairman. The Health Council advises that children move for an hour or intensively every day. It is also recommended to perform muscle and bone strengthening activities at least three times a week. Only this bill won't get you there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u12	I think Mr Heerema of the VVD has a question on the previous point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u13	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I'm just trying to figure out what the role of these sports unions might be. The proposal is very clear, namely: professional teachers of the ALO in all schools. Sports federations generally employ trainers from, for example, BIOS. So I'm looking for something right now. Does GroenLinks think that those teachers in schools should indeed be those ALOs who teach movement, or can they at certain times be those trainers of sports unions who do not have an ALO degree? I'm just looking for relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u14	We are, in principle, for professional teachers, and I think that is Mr Heerema of the VVD as well. I've read an interesting note about that from him before. But we can imagine that such a professional teacher would also join a sports association to see if an interesting project could be organized. So in the first instance, a professional teacher is responsible, but there can be all kinds of projects with sports associations, for example. Recently I saw a nice example on the Square. That is why I referred to this in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u15	I actually miss the pabo's professional specialists in this list of Mrs Westerveld. Is there a future for them in primary education in a bill like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u16	Yeah, it could be. In principle, we think it is important that there are always professional teachers. People who come from the ALO are, of course, highly qualified for this. But professional specialists from the pabo could also play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u17	Yes, because sometimes blood, sweat and tears, also under pressure from the government, have been given a power to be active in primary education. Wouldn't it be a little strange if these people were to pass through this bill now? That's what Mrs Westerveld shares?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u18	Well, there is, of course, a comment to be made. For a while ago, I believe in 2002, it was decided that not everyone who comes from the pabo automatically has a competence for movement education. Of course, that decision has not been taken for nothing, because it turns out that when the children are taught by people who are specifically trained for this purpose, motor skills improve and children also learn to move better. That is why, in the first instance, we certainly see a role for people who are trained and come from the ALO. At the same time, we also understand that this bill means a lot and that you can't have only people who graduated from the ALO overnight. And we also wonder to what extent there is enough enthusiasm. I also asked some questions about this to the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u19	A brief closing remark, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u20	It is not so much about the group teachers who have done something on the pabo or not, but it is about the professional specialists, who, with a pabo background, have specialised in movement education. I would like to suggest that this category should continue to be explicitly included in primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u21	Yes. This seems to me first of all something that could, of course, include the initiator in his proposal. But I certainly understand Mr Bishop's remark, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u22	There is another question for you, from Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u23	It will be important to know the position of GroenLinks, because that group will soon be voting in favour of this initiative law. Then I would like to remind Mrs Westerveld that not only do we have to have three hours of gymnastics/movement education, but also three hours taught by a professional teacher. So that's an ALO teacher. So that means that all those group teachers who have a specialty in movement education are becoming brothless, or at least shouldn't be giving that anymore. I would like to know if GroenLinks wants to take that for his hood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u24	We certainly do not want to encourage people to become brothless from one day to the next. There is, of course, also a transitional period in this proposal. However, we are expressly advocating the use of professional teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u25	Okay. So the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance stands for Mr Van Nispen's idea that only the professional teachers, i.e. those with separate training, can give gyms. The group teacher with a specialty, who therefore has a responsibility for the whole educational development, is no longer able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u26	Yeah, we're pleading for professional teachers. At the same time, of course, we are not in favour of people being out of work overnight. So that's two different things. I would like to make it quite clear, as the author also writes, that there is, of course, a transitional period. If this bill is adopted, it is, of course, foreseen that not a lot of people will lose their jobs overnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u27	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u28	Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we need to focus on children who are not easily encouraged to exercise from home. My group sees that inequality of opportunity also extends to sport and exercise. Higher educated people exercise more and are more often members of a sports association. Lower educated people often suffer from diseases that also have to do with little movement, for example. More movement education contributes to tackling inequality of opportunity, because everyone deserves a fit and healthy life. I conclude with a point about the "wet gym lessons" or school swimming. School swimming is also included in this proposal. It is included in this proposal as a time of learning for movement. That's good, because there should be more attention to swimming education. We think it is important that everyone in the Netherlands learns how to swim at a young age. Fortunately, 97% of the children also get a swimming diploma. That is, of course, very good, but it is the 3% that is at great risk. That is why I would like to ask the Minister if he has a better view of that 3%. What are we going to do to ensure that 100% of children in the Netherlands will receive a swim diploma? I would like to ask the petitioner whether he thinks that there are enough facilities in municipalities to ensure that 100% of children will, hopefully, get a swim diploma during school time. Mr. Chairman. Once again I would like to thank the author for his much work, and also the support, of course, because I can imagine that it was a lot of work. We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u29	Thank you. I shall then be the next speaker from the Chamber to speak to Mr Rudmer Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u30	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the author of this bill. It is super interesting to read and one of the most beautiful subjects we can deal with in the Chamber. At a time when children play with their iPad more than they play outdoors, in which children suffer from motion poverty, in which obesity sometimes takes grotesque forms and in which social skills of children seem to become less and less large, good movement education in primary school can be an excellent intervention to deal with these problems. It is appalling that so few schools themselves understand the importance of good movement education for an ALO. Gym needs to be given to a sufficient extent one hour a week is really not enough and it must be given by a professional who has made gym lessons his or her profession. We have tried from the government to improve the quality of the teacher through the course of movement education for a pabo'er. But we have to be honest. The results are neither positive nor, unfortunately, encouraging. Children in primary school do not get more movement education and preschoolers have even less gymnastics. So I understand that the petitioner wants to end the course of movement education. I'm the same in there. In any case, the money saved can already be put into real professional teachers. Then back to the main course of the bill: three hours of gym education by a real professional teacher of the ALO for all groups in primary school. This is something the VVD has been working on for years. That's why I agree with this bill. There is, however, a considerable challenge with regard to funding. The author knows that very well. For example, I have looked at the logical intermediate step to first arrange the anchoring of two hours of a real professional teacher of the ALO. These costs then amount to approximately EUR 45 million per year. That should be easier and faster to achieve than this proposal. I have kept the entire budget of the Ministry of Education and Science on top of that, but not a single euro has been lost. In fact, there is another 161 million. The author also speaks about the importance of the intervention which is good movement education. It is important that there is an increasing awareness of the enormous problem of child mobility poverty and its impact on our society. We have laid this down without obligation in education in recent years, but we have to note that it has not sufficiently taken up its role and role. We have always been in favour of paymentability in relation to administrative agreements. This shows that this is urgently needed. The whole society sees the importance of tackling motion poverty, but unfortunately schools do not opt enough for professional teachers and sufficient gym lessons. The next step, as far as I am concerned, is to see how we can get this proposal affordable. I have a question for the author. Do you have a good picture of the multiannual financial impact? Can you, for example, indicate how this is going to develop in a ten-year time frame of the European Union? In the first few years there is a need to invest heavily, but in the long term there are also revenues to be expected. Do you have a clearer picture of that? And what exactly is the role of the municipalities, which have the legal task of providing gymnasiums? Is there an idea of which municipalities have not invested sufficiently in this and which municipalities have sufficiently reserved? Because a large part of the costs mentioned in this bill are in the construction of gymnasiums. I think that's a responsibility of municipalities. They have the job of making sure that every child has a gym for two hours. If municipalities cannot deliver this, we still have a claim to submit to the municipalities. Mr. Chairman. I would like to take part in the debate on the possible financing. As I said, to my great frustration I have not been able to find the funds within the budget of OCW, not for two hours, as my own initiative paper asked, and therefore not for three hours, which is five times as expensive. But we checked: the signatures of the ministries of OCW and VWS are under the Sports Agreement, which we concluded in June. At VWS, that's not just the sports department, it's VWS-wide. These signatures must have value. If we can see good movement education by a professional teacher of the ALO as an important prevention intervention, then it is quite odd that this has not been given a place in the prevention agreement. There are resources available. It can make a whole generation of kids healthier. That is why I ask the Minister to discuss this promising intervention with his colleague on the prevention agreement and to look with him at the possible financial area. In contrast to secondary education, primary education does not have a standard of hours for movement education. That is actually very strange, because good movement education at primary school age is many times more important than in secondary education. Because it's the start of your career. We are now reaping the sour fruit of the fact that we did not manage it properly in 2005. I am prepared to record hours, where two hours of a professional teacher of the ALO would be a practical first step if, for example, we could find the means through the prevention agreement. In short, the agreements we have made in recent years in the field of movement education have had insufficient results. Then continuing to do the same, gives no other outcome. It is a difficult subject to carry out, because schools, municipalities, powers, shrinkage and finance are all issues where resistance and challenges are present, but we really need to see that as a challenge. Let us try together to improve the quality and number of hours of movement education, because our children deserve good movement education from a professional teacher of the ALO, so that they can live a life with great pleasure with as little movement poverty as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u31	Nice story from Mr. Heerema. Honestly, I didn't expect anything else either. Everyone knows his involvement in this subject. Can I summarize his speech as follows? "There is actually one big problem: we still have to find the money. Apart from that, I fully support the intentions and purpose of this bill. I would like to go on the search together to see how this funding can be arranged, for example, in other places outside the education budget."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u32	This is a goal that we have always had. It is also part of our electoral programme. We have also made funds available for this in our financial annex to the electoral programme. It was not possible to achieve that in the coalition agreement. That makes the search for money a lot harder. I just have to be honest with you about that. But if it succeeds to search for it and preferably within the budget of OCW, because that's where this subject belongs, then I'm certainly willing to find out where that would be at any time. So yes, I support the use of this bill: the content, those three hours of the professional teacher, abolishing the course of movement education. I think a practical first step of two hours would make more sense to prepare the schools for follow-up. The big point we're all looking at is the money. That is why my question to the author: can you make a multiannual planning or provide insight? If we take the first four years, you'll be hitting a billion euros right away. But let's say you can show that that's gonna give a positive picture in 10 or 20 years' time. Then the discussion, including with my party, will probably be a bit easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u33	But Mr Van Nispen, also in response to your question and that of other Members of Parliament, has asked the Mulier Institute to look into it. They show to me, and in my view to you, quite convincingly that this is indeed a substantial investment, but one that is socially recouped. We could do more research on it, but there's already a lot of that kind of information. Practically every report on prevention shows that the euro you invest now will ultimately save two or three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u34	True, but that is why I also ask the petitioner to make a multiannual perspective. We have the information that it costs a lot of money at first, we have the information that it produces in the long term, social money, but also ordinary money. I haven't got that whole picture together yet, but if you do, it's fine, and maybe we can get it sooner. Then at least we have an A4 or something like that on which we can easily speak if we could solve the problem of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u35	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the next speaker. That's Mr. Beertema from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the authors of the law for the much work that has undoubtedly brought with them, Mr Van Nispen and the supporters. We are talking about Mr Van Nispen's proposal. That law lays down rules on the amount of movement education to be given in primary education and that these lessons should be given by qualified lecturers. Moreover, I noticed that Mr Heerema only speaks of the ALO people. I'd like to say something about that in a moment. The arguments underlying this law are the right of children to learn how to move and develop, the importance of a healthy and sportive society and also the positive effect on learning outcomes should not be underestimated. No sensible person can oppose that, but the understanding of how we can realize that best is quite different. There are many roads that lead to Rome. It seems to be a sympathetic proposal, but at the moment the PVV does not see full use and necessity. Mr. Chairman. We recognise, of course, the importance of movement education. That children should move sufficiently to avoid all kinds of motor delays and defects that will lead to all kinds of physical and even pedagogical discomfort. But it does not necessarily mean that it is the responsibility of the government alone. Parents should also ensure that their children move enough and preferably actively engage in sport. Fortunately, according to the CBS, more than two thirds of children do at least weekly sports. That could be a little higher as far as we are concerned. It is precisely there that there is a task to raise awareness and opportunities, for example by informing the youth sports funds. Our country has over 23,000 sports clubs: tennis, basketball, handball, volleyball, judo, kickboxing, you name it, and 70,000 teams in the field football. There's more than enough offer. We have traditionally been very sympathetic to compulsory school swimming. I'm glad some of my colleagues have already mentioned that. Until 1985 this was a compulsory part of the curriculum. In 1991 nine out of ten primary schools participated in school swimming, but nowadays that is only one in three. Beyond the safety aspect that benefits society as a whole, there is almost no stronger, healthier and more useful movement activity than swimming. Do the initiators see good in a prime position of school swimming within their plea for children to move more? I'd be happy to give you that question, along with other colleagues. Mr. Chairman. Schools must ensure that current teaching time is used to provide gym lessons. It cannot be the case that on average schools do not schedule two hours of teaching a week, or that 20% of schools only schedule one hour of teaching movement. As a result, as many as 400,000 children receive only one hour of gym lessons a week. These differences between schools must be resolved. But imposing and recording how much movement education should be given by schools is actually also a question of problems. We shouldn't want to saddle schools with a curriculum extension either. Space is far too limited for that. Those schools have so much to do. It seems to us advisable to have the objectives set out in the administrative agreement - it sounds very boring - serve as a guide. For example, since 2017, schools have been required to offer at least two hours of movement education and, where possible, to strive for three hours of instruction. It is indeed a very useful first step, and I agree with the VVD. From 2017, all teaching hours must also be taught by a qualified teacher. The alo is of course beautiful, but we also advocate that physical education be an intrinsic part of the pabo. As far as we are concerned, every prospective teacher and teacher has to obtain competences regarding physical education within his or her education. We also believe, in line with the PO Council and the AOb, that two hours of gym lessons per week is the most feasible at the moment. It is virtually impossible to demand a third hour. There are not enough gymnasiums and there are not enough teachers. That is precisely why I am in favour of including physical exercise as an integral part of the pabo training. It is also contrary to the freedom of education that the fixing of the number of hours of training goes against the freedom of movement. We'll join them anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u37	I'm gonna stop you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u38	The Socialists want to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u39	That is what I am giving Mr Kwint the room for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u40	Many and many, Mr. Chairman. I am still somewhat recovering from the fact that I have just heard Mr Beertema say: following the example of the PO Council and the AOb. I don't think I've ever heard him say that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u41	I'll pick my friends in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u42	Yeah, those are occasional coalitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u43	I'm gonna drop them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u44	I don't doubt that for a second. Mr Beertema said some time ago, before he started complimenting all these clubs: it cannot be that schools do not even offer that minimum of two hours. The problem is of course: it cannot be, but it is. It has been in government agreements, it has been in sector agreements, it has been in administrative agreements; you can hardly come up with an agreement or there has been something about movement education. It doesn't matter. So what is the solution that Mr Beertema is proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u45	I fully agree with the Socialist Party on this point. When I read the explanatory statement, tears spontaneously jump into my eyes. Such a tough history, that whole educational polder, who's been deliberating and talking for decades and coming to a convenant and making an appointment... It's not gonna work out. That is indeed my problem with the whole education province, which is so terribly crowded. That's the consequence of that. What we need is just a minister who is finally going through a legislative process in order to settle this properly. Then we're done. It can't be that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u46	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u47	But that's what I advocated. That is what I said: let us indeed lay down the two hours legally. It's gotta be possible. I think it's a good idea to pursue that third hour. We can make things up for that; we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u48	Mr. Kwint...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u49	...who suddenly recognized a lot more of Mr. Beertema's usual input when he started talking about the clay layers and the administrative provinces. Everything's back to the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u50	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u51	So your objection is mainly in the number of hours? The fundamental objection is not to lay down in the law how many hours of movement education should be given. Your objection is specifically in that third hour. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u52	What was the last thing you said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u53	The third hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u54	Yes. Two hours is really the minimum. This should be given and should also be laid down by law. Of course, schools can strive for that third hour. I can also imagine that there are schools that want to profile themselves as a gym, but that in turn affects the freedom of education. Other schools want to profil themselves in a different way and would like to use that time to give extra reading and literature education, for example. But that is a question of freedom of education. Schools have their own hands in that. They can do that themselves, and they can use it to profile themselves towards the market, so to speak, of the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u55	Finally, briefly, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u56	Yes, but now Mr Bertema is making things unnecessarily complicated again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u57	I always like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u58	If three hours in one go becomes a question of freedom of education, isn't that exactly the same at two? That's a gradual difference, isn't it? For a gradual difference between two and three hours, can't you pull out the freedom of education as the most important argument at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u59	No, I don't agree with you. Two hours is a minimum. That should fit in with the core goals, like reading, numbers, tables, you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u60	An important part of this initiative law is, of course, the quality of the teacher in front of the classroom. That's why I think the petitioner chooses the professional teacher of the ALO. Mr Beertema is actually in favour of integrating the course of movement education into the pabo, while all the reports show that the vast majority of these teachers do not give enough gym education and that the quality of the lessons is not much better, despite the fact that there are gems among the pabos who have followed the course of movement education and teach them fantastic. Now, if there are enough ALO professionals to be found, are you prepared to drop that pabo and still focus on those ALOs? When you talk to the ALOs, you hear that inflow of 100 per ALO is very easy to get.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u61	As far as I'm concerned, it's not a question of or-or; it's much more and-and. When I hear all the stories of "yes, but that's far too incriminating for those teachers in primary education," I think: yes, come on, we can stay busy with all kinds of beautiful subjects. Because movement education is a wonderful profession. I think that's also being embraced by students of the pabo for 99.9%. They can obtain a beautiful note, a beautiful education. Then those kids get that movement education from their own teachers. I prefer that. If there's no other way, okay, then those ALO people can join us. But there is another example. Religious and humanistic education also seems to be something very special that we should not entrust to the average pabo-educated teacher. That's bullshit! It's one of the most beautiful courses to give. Any pabo-educated teacher should be able and willing to give that. Otherwise, something's not right. Really, that's great. The same applies to movement education. What scares me a little is that this educational province will be expanded with a dome of the HVO and the GVO and a dome of the movement education. Soon we'll get a dome of extra qualified math teachers. Why not just be an integral part of this pabo education? They're really nice courses. Everyone should want to embrace that, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u62	I agree with the author that the quality of an ALO, who has learned for four years for this wonderful profession, is higher than that of a teacher whose work was discussed in the pabo. I had hoped that I could seduce Mr Beertema by pointing out that the ALOs have no difficulty in delivering enough professional teachers. I had hoped that he might come my way, but given the answer to the first part of my question, I do not see that movement happening very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u63	Again, it is not an or-or; it seems to me to be a question of and-and. Mr. Chairman. In view of the problems that primary education is already facing, I myself regularly talk about a'system crisis' in education, because there is also a'system crisis' in education, which we do not think is appropriate to confront education with even more regulation and also a certain patronism, which I think I see. The aforementioned obstacles to increasing teaching time are not enough financial resources, insufficient accommodation, which you don't just brush away, and too few teachers are not solved with this bill. Quite the contrary. We are not, by definition, in favour of extending teaching time. We do not want to burden schools with even more obligations that they simply cannot confirm at the moment. The curriculum is already so overloaded. I'll mention a few: climate, gender, Islam, mosque visit... every school goes on mosque visit; it's horrible... Black Pete, hot jersey day, War Child, protests against evictions, the children's pardon, EU teaching programs. They're all themes that don't come out of our bosom, I'll say. If all such derivatives are abolished, there is talk, I think, about bringing the hours released back to the core targets and also to moving. Because moving belongs in the core goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u64	Here is a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u65	Pretty short. I am very curious to know which curriculum Mr Beertema has read, because the curriculum I know in primary education says very little about what was it all? Black Piet, mosque visit and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u66	No, no, no. That is not in the core objectives either. This is all provided to these schools in complete teaching programmes, including from Brussels, War Child, climate organisations and the COC. Those programs are all embraced by all those left-wing teachers and school leaders. It's all rolled out wide. That takes a lot of time, I would like to give Mr Kwint. All this time, these core goals are based on reading, writing and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u67	But then Mr Beertema's argument can be summarized as follows: if these children have to attend gym class three hours a week, there is not enough time to go to the mosque. I think this is going to cost you your seat in the group, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u68	No, no, then you haven't listened carefully; I notice that more often with SP'ers. It is the other way around: if we abolish that kind of thing, maybe there will be time for that beautiful movement and that school swim. That's much more useful and much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u69	Finally, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u70	You just started the plea for the pabo. But paboteachers who can also give a very good gym have a professional expertise and can do all that. So they are very well-educated people, but they are not then able to impose that on children if they think a teaching package is absurd. That's an untenable argument, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u71	I don't know if almost every school has a hot day. That's a climate thing. That is widely celebrated. I don't know if almost every primary school is going to visit mosques endlessly to be wrapped up by imams and to make an Islamic confession of faith on the knees on the fairy tale carpet. We can all delete that. That leaves a lot of time. Finally, Mr President. If the choice is made to increase the teaching time by one hour of extra gym lessons by a professional teacher, the cost is estimated at 150 million. The total cost is estimated at EUR 275 million. Those are huge amounts of money. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I agree with that and I would like answers to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I want to suspend for two minutes. "Five minutes of suspension" I hear someone whispering softly. Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u73	I hope everyone has moved a little bit and not all unhealthy things have started to do in the time I suspended for a while. Well, we'd better hope so. I would like to give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u74	Mr. Chairman. I still feel like this was a smoke break for some people. That can't be the intention. Anyway, I'm not looking at anyone, because it's not up to me. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is champion. You look shocked, but it was really in the paper. Last summer, several newspapers published the press release that Dutch people move more than anyone in Europe. This is evident from a rather wide-ranging study by the European Commission. 80% of Dutch people do cycling, hiking, gardening or swimming every week. This is only 44% on average in the EU. The reason the Netherlands scores so high is that we have a good network of facilities. That was put forward as an explanation. Moreover, Dutch people enjoy moving; that was also an important argument. For example, it is unique that so many children go by bike to school every day. A legal obligation for schools to give a number of hours of gyms therefore seems to be the last thing we need. However, the SGP appreciates the commitment of the initiator of this law to put this on the agenda. As we have also noticed from the interruptions, we are dealing here with the key questions. What is a school anyway? What is the job of a school anyway? And how far does it extend? Thank you very much for that. That alone makes a debate on such an initiative proposal valuable. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the staff, who I know very well in the background, who often make a substantial contribution in this respect and make their part in it with enthusiasm. Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago, the government deployed massively on count and language. The initiator now proposes to put a little bit on top of it in gym education. For the SGP both mind and body is important in education. Fortunately, the SGP is not the only party in that, so we have been able to listen. However, the Parliament has to make choices about what and how many. Time and money are scarce. The SGP therefore considers it very important to properly distinguish the responsibilities of parents, schools and society. The initiative law gives gym at primary school an exclusive status. The law does not now state how many hours to spend on a profession, not even for mathematics and language. The initiator would like to arrange this for gymnastics. The SGP asks him if he can further support that break-up for primary education. Why arrange for three hours for gymnastics, when, for example, this is not regulated for technology, history or biology? Isn't it much easier for parents to move their children than to teach them, for example, technology or history? Isn't that why you as a government shouldn't invest in infrastructure as peripheral facilities? I realize very well that the recreational movement is of course something different from the school gym, but you could also see it complementary. Mr. Chairman. The SGP considers it important that good gym is given. That brings me to the powers. This requires not only professional skills, but also educational skills. In this light, the SGP finds a unilateral commitment to professional teachers a bit difficult to understand. I have already shown this in an interruption. Why allow only professional teachers of the ALO and do not give space to the professional specialists of the pabo? They do not provide enough quality, then, is the argument. However, in his story, the initiator draws a comparison between professional and group teachers, while a fair comparison should be made between professional and specialist teachers in primary education. In the investigation, that hardly happened. From the practice we hear that professional specialists of the pabo have a lot more feeling and experience with the practice in primary school, while they are often certainly sufficient or sometimes even strong in content. It is precisely this pedagogical dimension that could be an extra feature of the specialist at primary school level in relation to the professional teacher of the ALO. Gym is about more than just technology, especially in young children. I have the explicit question to the initiator whether he also wants to offer space to professional specialists. For the SGP, a reliable, credible government is also of great importance; this point is also added. Since 2006, schools and teachers have been strongly encouraged not to say: put pressure on the student to follow movement education. Many teachers have experienced high workload because they have followed this spicy course of learning alongside their work. This course has also been revised recently. According to the initiator, this was a nice step towards a better approach, but doesn't this mean for many schools and teachers just a line through their hard work? The course will be stopped immediately and existing teachers will be parked in ten years' time. And why is there no longer the possibility of using specialist specialists in kindergarten for the next few years? The proposal seems to have gone from one extreme to the next. I'm sorry to say it a little sharp, but that's how it looks. Mr. Chairman. Two more questions about quality. Research would show that attention to exercise is crucial especially up to the age of 7 years. If that is the case, why didn't the initiator's initiative focus on the primary school base? The initiator indicates that the hours of school swimming can count, but he does not express himself on the quality requirements for this. We wholeheartedly agree that school hours can count on school swimming. We embrace that. I think that this is only an improvement, but can the initiator indicate how the quality requirements are now regulated, whether certificates are mandatory and what should possibly be done to ensure quality there too? While we're at it, we better do it right. Mr. Chairman. Another question to the Minister about the need for clarity in legislation and regulation. Ten years ago, the Dijsselbloem Commission pointed to the problem of phantom law: the government pretends to have legal obligations, but it does not. This is also a specific problem in movement education. The administrative agreement states that schools have to give two hours of gymnastics, but schools are not legally required to do so. The SGP finds this shadowiness undesirable. My question to the Minister is what he thinks should be done about it. Will the Minister, looking at the calculations on the added value of professional teachers, also indicate how he appreciates these calculations? Are they real? So I am also talking about value added in relation to the specialist and also about the calculation of costs. Mr President, that was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u75	Thank you. Mr. Heerema of the VVD has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u76	Yes, a question about those pedagogical aspects. You put things on a sharp footing and you pretend to be someone who comes from the ALO, who has much less knowledge of pedagogical aspects. I was wondering if you know that pedagogy and didactics are just parts of the teaching program at the ALO and that for three or four years you are also just doing weekly internships in schools, where the pedagogy and the didactics are also mastered. Perhaps this knowledge will make you a little more flexible with regard to the professional teacher of the ALO, who has mastered the pedagogy well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u77	I honestly admit that I don't know the ALO's curriculum in detail. Maybe you could help me with that. If the ALO also explicitly has a learning line aimed at the younger child... In my view, the ALO was mainly focused on first-degree training for secondary education, because I have always had to deal with this in practice. Moreover, I have no objection to the ALO's professional teachers, but I do wonder whether they should, by definition, take the place of professional specialists who, in my opinion, do excellent work in primary schools; at least I get that back when I am on a job visit. But perhaps you can shed some light on that point. Then I'll be nudging my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u78	Maybe as a school teacher I should just say that the questions have to be through me. So you may address me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u79	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. Through you, then, this answer. I had the impression that the educational aspect was very strongly encouraged. I am trying to clarify that this educational aspect, particularly at the ALO, is very clear for the different age groups, both for those from 0 to 8 and for the middle group and for the first grade in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u81	I am therefore pleased that I have been able to clarify this to Mr Bishop, because I think it is an important aspect to nuance his story, particularly with regard to the pedagogical aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u82	Yes. Thank you for that. That indeed corrects my image, in the sense that I now have an image of the diversity of learning lines available on the ALO. That's fine. However, I would like to point out that the question of the position of specialists remains to be answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u83	Thank you. I shall then give the floor from the Chamber to Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the CDA Group, I would, of course, like to thank the initiator and his supporters for their efforts. Of course, filing a legislative proposal of your own is a nice privilege that MPs have. It's always nice to see a colleague in box K. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group agrees with the petitioner that it is very important to move and to make movement education a part of the school curriculum. The CDA also sees how worrying it is at the moment with the motor development and motor skills of children. Moving and sports are of great importance, for children and also for adults. In addition, the CDA believes that there is a large and important responsibility for parents when it comes to sufficient exercise and exercise. Unfortunately, nowadays children are not only in the classroom, but also in their spare time all the time sinking head-on towards such a screen. First we had the generation X, then we got the generation Y and now we have the generation HD, Heads Down. And that's where the problem begins. That's where it goes wrong. Parents in particular have a responsibility in this regard. They should set a good example by playing soccer or tennis together on weekends and by having children ride their bikes to school, playing sports and, especially at the age of this bill, playing a lot outside. As stated in our written input, we fully support the governance agreement p.o. which was concluded in 2014, including the agreements on movement education. The CDA also believes that these agreements, on the provision of at least two hours of movement education per week by competent teachers, should be met by 2020. They can be professional teachers, but they can also be paboafstuden met een professionelespecialisatie voor onderwijs onderwijs. With the SP we are concerned about the fact that some schools are struggling to comply with these agreements at the moment. The updated governance agreement therefore announces additional measures to achieve them. I refer to the opening up of the teacher's scholarship for movement education, in order to achieve a broad competence for gymnastics without teachers seeing their right to reimbursement of a bachelor's or master's degree. Together with the VNG, a study is also being carried out on the bottlenecks that schools encounter in order to achieve the objective of the governance agreement. The CDA wants the board agreement to have a chance. We are premature enough to come up with a bill now. The petitioner charges the suspicion of wanting to score a little too quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u85	Yes, because of course it is almost impossible to imagine that after three different government agreements in which it has stood and after several sectoral and administrative agreements I will say it myself, because apparently it does not help to write it down in an administrative agreement. I think it's amazing. Four years ago, Mr Rog himself said: "But 5% of the children get that three hours of gym a week, but that is our ambition. That needs to be done. As far as the CDA is concerned, we can't do this. The ambition needs to be raised. We must not only formulate this more clearly but also maintain it better." Maintaining can only be done if there is a rule. He's not here right now. Then what is your objection to the legislative process? There's got to be something the enforcer can rely on, right? That can't be a non-binding sectoral agreement, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u86	That is why I have also indicated that we welcome the actualisation of the administrative agreement. The sector has also committed itself to meeting the two-hour appointment by a qualified teacher. I also say here that this is important to us. So we're really gonna see if that's gonna happen. Only this bill now passes through, while we have made agreements again in the sector. I'd like to give him a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u87	I'm curious when Mr... It has been in three governmental agreements. It didn't happen. It also has in two, or perhaps three, keep me in favour of successive sectoral agreements for the p.o. But it didn't happen afterwards. Then Mr Rog asked for sanctions: are there sanctions for schools that do not comply with these agreements? That was the literal question. If it hasn't worked for so long, isn't it so strange that a step towards legislation is now being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u88	What Mr Kwint says is true. Just, I'm telling him that we've made a new deal by now. I want us to follow up on how these agreements are actually met. I have said earlier about agreements with which we did not even agree: if the sector has complied with the results in an agreement with the government, I want to give it a chance. Then I don't think it's a pass if we ride through it as a government. I even said that about agreements I didn't agree with myself. The previous governance agreement contained a number of elements with which we, as the CDA Group, did not agree. We have said: we are not going to intervene now; we are not going to go through it now, because we believe that the sector should be given the opportunity to do so itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u89	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u90	I therefore conclude that the only time it would be justified for the CDA Group to submit an initiative law on this subject is the moment when a sector agreement expires and when a new agreement is concluded. In that very short time slot, a law must be written very quickly, otherwise the whole thing will be fixed and we will no longer be allowed to pursue it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u91	Mr. Kwint is now ridiculing the place. I say I feel kept to the board agreement. That's what I stand for. I've said that before. That's what I thought even about things I didn't agree with. I think we should give that a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u92	Thank you. Please continue your speech. Oh, excuse me, Mrs Westerveld also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u93	I agree with Mr Rog's plea. Still, I'm very sorry. This is an important subject. We see year after year that it doesn't work out in administrative agreements. Successive coalitions have written it down in government agreements, but from this coalition agreement it has disappeared. Wouldn't it be a good idea to continue this legislative discussion now? Of course, I do not have to ask Mr Rog, because we will probably continue to do so. But wouldn't it be good if there was something on the shelf? If it turns out that these agreements are not being complied with, at least we will have a legislative proposal to settle them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u94	I would not be in favour of that, at least not if this is a legislative proposal, because I shall be dealing with a number of elements which my group does not agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u95	I am curious about the answer, because my next question would be when the government should do something. So I am very curious to hear Mr Rog's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u96	That's what we're gonna listen to now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u97	Mr. Chairman. Due to a number of practical bottlenecks, schools have not yet been able to reach the previous agreements, such as the lack of accommodation and the availability of qualified teachers. It goes too far for my group to impose a legal obligation under that stark school, with an extension to not two but three hours of lessons, although there is a ten-year growth phase. We also don't know how long it's gonna take for the bottlenecks to be resolved. I was at work two weeks ago in Barneveld, where exactly this bill was cited as an example that led the school director to despair: how do they think in The Hague that we can give three hours of gym if I don't even have the accommodation? I would like the author to respond to that. Also from Rotterdam we received this cry for help. The CDA prefers that the minister should send in to reach the agreements in the administrative agreement. The CDA agrees with the criticism of the Council of State that the legal setting of the hours standard interferes with the freedom of schools to make their own choices, all the more so because we do not set an hour standard for other subjects, even for language and mathematics. We did not think that the answers of the initiator to the questions we asked him about them were sufficient in the written round. We'd like him to take it one more time. Does he realize that schools can attach importance to the teaching of gyms by a qualified group teacher, including for example educational considerations? The group teacher then sees the whole development of the child and can guide it. Or should we, if this law were to be passed later, also go from SP to competent professional teachers Dutch, mathematics, history, world orientation and so on? This does not fit in with the nature of primary education. At the very least, I want to keep the freedom for schools to have that set up by group teachers, albeit with a note for gym. Our group attaches great importance to this. Why does the author think that we should decide here from The Hague that the time that schools spend on moving in a different way should not count for hours of movement education? School swimming may still be allowed from the SP, but sports activities with local sports coaches, moving classes, eurythmy, school hockey and the tennis example with which Mrs Westerveld came get a bit of second-class movement education. I think all these other forms of movement can also be extremely valuable. As far as we are concerned, they can also count in completing this important part of the curriculum. How does the author look at these examples? Should schools which now make these kinds of choices fear that they will have to review their curriculum of the SP? And how does the author look at the opinion Fun in moving the Dutch Sports Council, the Health and Society Council and the Education Council? That's the report I just mentioned in an interruption. It actually goes beyond the three hours of gym advocated by the petitioner, with even twice a half hour of exercise per day. At the same time, it leaves much more room for schools to fill that out themselves. With the examples I just gave, I think that space should continue to exist. I would also like to ask the Minister to comment on that point. Finally. The CDA also indicated in the written round that it was very critical of the financial underpinning of the legislative proposal, which, as the amended explanatory memorandum shows, will cost EUR 275 million. In his reply, the initiator refers to agreements that might be made with health insurers about part of the costs, because the social importance of more movement and health would ultimately benefit them. An amendment was tabled to the budget by the SP, but it did not. In answering our questions, the initiator also refers to possible resources remaining in schools given the shortage of teachers. But that's one-off money, and we can't find a structural solution for that. Mr Van Nispen seems to like the inexhaustible but unfortunately imaginary money boom that the SP sometimes perceives, but in reality we do not have this money. I therefore ask the initiator, if he wants to go through with this, to come up with a really sound cover. Because in this way, we will not only restrict the organisation of education, but we will also put schools in further financial need. And that can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u98	There is another interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u99	I, too, understand the question of financial coverage. In the plea of Mr Heerma of the VVD, also a coalition party, we heard a bit more willingness to look. Does Mr Rog not think that the CDA, as a coalition party, can do a little more to see if there is a way to get financial coverage from somewhere, given the great social importance of moving?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u100	Mrs Westerveld will not be unaware that we share this social importance of moving with her wholeheartedly and also with the initiator. I can also see his involvement. I have that involvement too, and I also think it is important to move it. Only, we make other choices. So I am not looking for money for just three hours of gym by an ALO qualified teacher because I see that competence wider and I would very much like to enter into a debate, including with the Minister, about that beautiful report Fun in moving that sport and moving is much wider than Mr Van Nispen's initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u101	So I understand that Mr Rog also sees these social benefits and that he also wants to look for that one pot of money to pay for, for example, more movement, but that he not only wants to limit that to this bill but that he wants to see it wider?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u102	Mrs Westerveld is now just talking about money and moving. I am talking about the importance of moving and I would also like to move in a debate on the advice of these civil society organisations and the Education Council on Fun, but I do not want to go to mandatory three hours by an ALO qualified teacher. So that's not why I'm looking for money. I just can't make it any better. I'd like the board agreement to be passed in two hours. We will discuss this further with the Minister in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u103	I doubted for a moment because Mr Rog seemed to be saying in a sense that even if he found money, he would not want to spend it on it. I just thought that the CDA and the SP found each other in the coverage that Mr Van Nispen was talking about, among other things, namely social benefits and less healthcare expenditure. We, as parties, both note that health insurers have left too much money on the shelf. We have also taken initiatives in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u104	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u105	Wouldn't it be a logical and socially profitable investment, for example, to use this money for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u106	No, but Mr. Kwint is about to tie up a few things. He does that smartly, that's how I know him, and that's very good. I believe that if we, as a Chamber, have to assess a legislative proposal, we can also be critical of funding. Moreover, we have discussed an own-initiative paper on financial coverage on this subject, which has been as critical as it is today. I believe that we should ask the initiator to provide cover for the proposal. I don't see it, and I don't think that's right. That is what I call the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u107	I will not deny Mr Rog the right to be critical at all. Even if I wanted to, I don't even care about that. I note, however, that there was an amendment in the budget that the CDA voted against. I also note that the suggestion has been made to look at the reserves of health insurers, something on which our parties find each other, in the sense that these reserves are far too high. I note that you are now putting that aside as possible cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u108	No, what I'm doing is I'm asking the initiator, not Mr Kwint, but the initiator, Mr Kwint, for cover. There's an initiative. That costs a lot of money, i.e. 275 million. I believe that in that consideration, apart from some of the substantive objections we have raised, I am entitled to sound financial coverage. And I don't find it, apart from a suggestion, in this bill. I would like to make a comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u109	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66 as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u110	Mr. Chairman. I understand that Mr Van Nispen is the fastest Member of Parliament. That's what Mr. Kwint said. Well, he'll know. I'm guessing I'm the slowest member of parliament. I didn't measure that, but I dare say that with even more certainty. This is without prejudice to the fact that I find sport extremely important, pleasant and interesting. That's what I always thought. It's just, it's not that easy for me. I'd have a problem with it by now if I had to work out three hours a week. But I don't have to. And there's no law that's gonna make me do that either. So that's good. Mr. Chairman. It is without prejudice to the importance of moving, especially for children. All its blessings, such as social skills, the promotion of development, the improvement of school performance and health, have already been largely reviewed today. I'm certainly not gonna fight that either. In fact, my group thinks so, and I agree with that. I would therefore like to congratulate Mr Van Nispen and his support on this proposal. I want to thank them for that. I know from experience that submitting an own-initiative proposal is a difficult path, but it is also beautiful. It's nice that we can talk about it here. So thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. The core of this bill is now clear: that every primary school student receives three hours a week of movement education given by a teacher. That phrase is also pretty much in the D66 election programme. Before I get any questions about that, it's in there. So you can assume that my party has a positive attitude towards a proposal like this. But there are two things I would like to mention, which still lead to some hesitation. Let me put it this way. That is an objection and that is a development. The objection is actually a bit flat, but that mainly relates to the coverage. There is insufficient coverage in this proposal. This also has to do with the rather classic approach of the proposal. We have gym teachers, we have students, and we're going to move those students under the guidance of a gym teacher and of course we're going to do that in all kinds of beautiful facilities. If we follow this proposal, that means that there are two places where money is not enough. In the first place, this is a shortage for the schools themselves to find sufficient professional teachers. Secondly, there is a shortage for municipalities, when it comes to facilities that we would then like to offer in that line. I have, of course, read how the author looks at this, also in response to the many comments made by the Council of State on this bill, but I would like to hear again how he is looking at that coverage now. Moreover, the Council of State naturally has all kinds of other objections, ranging from Article 23 to all kinds of objections in the sense that the government must be cautious. You name it all! I'm gonna step over that. I'm telling you the truth. I find it interesting, but I share the view of the author rather than the Council. Before I go into my biggest problem, I'll go over that money first, about that objection. Look, we've invested a lot in this cabinet in primary education. We have set out two priorities: pay and workload. Both are invested. For the workload, this amounts to 450 million a year. It's up to the schools to decide how they spend it. In addition, professional teachers are a good option for gymnastics, which is also used. I am also curious to hear the answer to the question that has already been asked to the Minister whether there is an idea of how many times that has happened. Indeed, that frees teachers two or three hours a week to do other useful things in addition to teaching. So it's an attractive option, but it's a choice. Mr. Chairman. In these two priorities chosen by the cabinet, therefore, the education of the movement is not mentioned as a priority. We have an election programme that invests a total of 3.8 billion in education. Roughly speaking, we have set aside 1.9 billion of them. I say quite honestly to Mr Van Nispen that I am also not sure that if money were to be found, this would be the top priority, because there are a few other things that we have on our list. Unfortunately, we are not in the situation right now to have an interesting conversation about this, because for the time being there is no money. Mr. Chairman. But that's all just money, the dirt of the earth. Pretty interesting, but if you really want to, you can always find it. In fact, there is another problem, which was also raised in the debate with Mr Rog: there is a development. We have received a report from the Education Council and the Sports Council. It's called fun in moving. That's great, but there's also a lot in it. I must say that this is very appealing to me. When I read that report, I seriously wonder if I would include the phrase "three hours by a professional teacher" in another election programme. Maybe that seems more likely to me. I would write: let's see how we can implement the report Fun in moving the Education Council and the Sports Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u111	I have one question for Mr Van Meenen. I was at the presentation of that report. There the question was asked whether the commitment to move twice a day for half an hour replaced movement education. The whole answer was: no, absolutely not; this is something that should be done alongside good movement education, because this report is about movement and not about movement education. It is, of course, a world of difference whether your children learn to move properly or whether you let them move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u112	I understand that very well. The last thing I would like to do if we had carried out that advice from the Education Council and the Sports Council is to say that we can leave the education of the movement. I don't think so. But if that were to become a reality, you might wonder whether it is still necessary to have three hours of movement education per week. I'll ask myself that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u113	The emphasis is then on those three hours. The question then is quite logical, I think. Is this two hours that we now mention in the administrative agreements the minimum limit for Mr Van Meenen? Should this at least be regulated in schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u114	Well, we made that deal. Certainly as long as there are no other agreements and the advice of the Education Council and the Sports Council does not really come to maturity and becomes a reality, I think it would be good to at least stick to that, surely. I find it annoying to say, but the thinking in my group has got back on track once that report has been published. That leads me to have some hesitation in this approach, which, I repeat, has also been ours. The beauty of the report by the Education Council and the Sports Council, Fun in moving, is, in my group's view, the integral approach. Moving is no longer just a responsibility of the schools, but it becomes a responsibility of society as a whole, of everyone who feels connected to the school, whether it is the municipality, the sports association, the local sports coach or the shelter. Today there was another report on the connection of sport and youth care. Anyone could feel connected to that, the parents of course. Of course, it is important that expertise and good professional support play a role in this. I finally come to the conclusion... No, let me rephrase. First, I ask the author how he sees this relationship, whether he sees a contradiction, whether it strengthens each other, whether such a development has taken place with him. Because in fact I would like to propose to the author... I know that the great thing about such an initiative proposal is that you yourself are talking about the pace. And we all know that money also plays an important role in the advice of the Education Council and the Sports Council. That is a fact that I think we should take into account. I would like to say to the author: you will find a potential partner in me, in my party, but let us take the time to do so. Then at some point, as far as I am concerned, we can really find each other before the next elections at the latest and see how we can find the money for these initiatives in a good way. I hope it can develop in the meantime. Legislation is not still water. I like to keep thinking along, but this is my heartfelt advice. If we have to vote on it tomorrow, I can only vote against it, but on the contrary, we strongly support the idea behind it, and we hope that we will be able to develop it with each other, and that we will be able to find the means to do so in due course. For me it has been the last time that we write down a sentence that we cannot then support with money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u115	I have some difficulty with Mr Van Meenen's speech. If we find that each generation is less sport than its parents' generation, if we find that children's motor skills are deteriorating and that obesity is increasing... There are a number of examples I can give you. If we also note that we all know how important sport is, including for example the learning performance in schools, then I wonder why Mr Van Meenen says so clearly here that it is not a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u116	Everything is a priority in education. Whatever subject Mrs Westerveld would like to mention, I would find it unacceptable to delay it, in all areas. So that's not special about this subject. Let's not make it prettier than it is. This bill has a transitional period of ten years. It is therefore not the case that, if this becomes the law, these problems will be solved immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u117	I am not saying that this law solves all the problems immediately. I myself, on behalf of GroenLinks, have made a number of very critical comments on the proposal, but it is now the case that the coalition agreement does not say anything about movement education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u119	I have difficulty with that, but what I find even more difficult is that we hear Mr Van Meenen say very clearly here that this is not the priority of education, but apparently it is not the priority of this cabinet if we look much wider. I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen to do something about this, and I do not often say this to Mr Heerema, who was clearer and more constructive, to see if money and good will could be obtained from somewhere to be more positive in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u120	I am not going to reveal how often I consult with Mr. Heerema. Almost never, of course, but it can always be more. But let us be clear: Mr Heerema referred to the prevention agreement. That's a bit of an easy reference. Moreover, there is not nearly enough money in it to get anywhere near what this bill is asking for at the moment. I would also like to say to Mrs Westerveld, and indirectly also to the author, that I am potentially a partner. I am not standing here to torch this off and when I say that this is not the priority, I really do not mean that wrong, in the sense that it would not matter. No, it's very important, but if hundreds of millions suddenly became available for education right now, I would advise my party to make a different choice than this. That's all I'm saying. I can only hope that something like this will ever happen again. The next opportunity is in any case at the next elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u121	Thank you. Finally, there is another question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u122	Yes, because it was at the end of 2014 that Mr Van Meenen turned out strongly towards the Rutte II cabinet. He said something about the ambitions in the field of movement education. What did it say? "A bit of a shadowy text, but you can see that there is some sort of ambition." The latter was kind of an insult wrapped up as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u123	I've said worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u124	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u125	Please continue and put your question briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u126	But then you said that the plan of action will only come in spring 2015, and I think that is a little too little ambition. There was six months in between. And now we're dealing with this bill. I appreciate all the fine supportive words and the words about the importance, but now you say: perhaps we should look towards the next election. That is infinitely longer, even though you know that in The Hague you never took up the last six months of the Rutte cabinet. What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u127	Yeah, but that cabinet had written down that they were gonna do it, only it didn't. This cabinet didn't write it down. So here we are dealing with an initiative law. For that, money is being asked that there is not at the moment. And I would like to stress once again that for me it is even more important that in the meantime there has been a development in thinking, at least among us. We don't reason as tight as the bill anymore. Maybe that's the most important thing. That's why I think we should really take the time to see where we're going. So that's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u128	Well, Mr Van Nispen is here now, but I estimate that we will not be doing the second term in two weeks' time. I find it complicated that report from the Education Council, among others, that of course it is very clear that moving is good for learning performance, that you stay fit and so on. But I still want to join Mr. Heerema, who said that learning to move is really just teaching-didactically totally different from walking around the table with all of us in the back of the class. At the first you get to know your own body and its limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u129	What's your question, Mr. Kwint?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u130	Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u131	Ah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u132	I fully agree with Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u133	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u134	But I have already said this in reply to Mr Heerema's question. I am not saying that there should be no movement education, but you might ask yourself whether you necessarily need three hours of movement education if you want to use such a development as 'Fun in moving'. I have a question to ask, once again on the basis of the positive intention that children cannot move enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-26.u136	I suggest that we all move for a while now, because this will bring us to the end of the first term of office. It is up to the petitioner, in consultation, to decide when to reply to the Chamber.
