ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality in trade-K. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP, contrary to the order on the list. Mrs. Lodders will allow that. I call Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking Mrs Lodders and the other Members for the opportunity to speak first. This has to do with the fact that, unfortunately, I have to go elsewhere for a while. But the employee will follow the debate with more than average interest. To avoid misunderstandings, this is not a threatening undertone. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State made a very high effort. The evidence for possible large-scale fraud was that there would be unusually many twins registered in 2017. But, yeah, what's called evidence? In 2016, 7% of cattle holdings had more than 10% multiple calves, 7.9% in 2017. That is a fairly marginal difference on that whole. In how many cases has it been demonstrated that multiple calves in practice come from a milk-producing heifer, I ask the Minister. So how many times has this fraud actually been detected? The Minister deplores the image that has been created. I think it's a good thing she put that out in so many words. But the big question remains what the minister based himself on at the time. Also a question that lingers: why, after it has been found that irregularities might occur, has there not been a search, in consultation with sector organisations, for the causes of these irregularities? The problems of reporting stillborn calves, for example, were not unknown. Taking far-reaching measures without knowing what is going on in practice is rather risky. The image created has damaged the sector, as the Minister also notes. What is the Minister going to do to correct the picture, for example, and I would like to ask that specifically in the direction of Brussels? There's a lot at stake. As far as the blockades are concerned, the Minister says: I had no choice because of EU rules. We have looked at it again, also internally, but we have real doubts about that. Many blockades concerned companies where there were problems with death reports. The European rules clearly show that they are targeting live cattle. The existence of dead births is also irrelevant from the perspective of animal health and traceability. Until 2006, death births did not have to be reported here. With the introduction of the reporting obligation, it was not for nothing that it was a national headline on European rules to improve the quality of the i&r system. There is therefore no European obligation to report death births. Failure to report can therefore not be a reason for a business blockade. The minister says that on the basis of the milk list, she had no choice but to assume that a birth had not been reported. That is far too short a turn, in our opinion. Apart from the fact that the problems of death reports were known, there could also be a misregistered mother. Misdirection of the mother's identification code does not mean that no birth report has been made. There won't be any unregistered cattle out there yet. In short, the Minister has used heavy weapons, which we do not think would have been necessary to this extent. We therefore question the proportionality of this measure. The SGP also questions the multiple blockades. The decisions simply state that these twin calves are misregistered because the mother is missing. That's not right. It is the RVO itself that took these dams out of the system to force farmers to do DNA analyses, because fraud practices would make it very plausible that multiples had an incorrect dam registered. Large-scale multiple fraud has not yet been shown to be real. This is not how we deal with entrepreneurs in a rule of law. Does the Minister at least bear the costs of DNA analyses in cases where there was no false registration? Finally. The Minister is threatening discounts on payment entitlements. That doesn't make us happy. I ask the Minister, in the event of problems with reporting death births and miscommunications between management systems, not to apply a discount. I can leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	I have tried to follow the speech of the SGP Group and there is one thing that remains with me. There are more things that linger, but I have a question about whether or not to report stillborn animals. Did I understand correctly that the SGP Group says: no, in European terms, they do not need to be reported and is it a national headline? The question that comes to my mind is: is the SGP still coming up with proposals to "enlighten" the i&r in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	I do not know whether enlightenment or adaptation should only be specific on this point, but that it should be reviewed critically is beyond question in our view. If these measures can be achieved on the basis of current identification and registration, we have to ask ourselves whether we have sufficiently well-framed, sufficiently balanced. I would like to emphasise the importance of careful registration. As far as I am concerned, this is not in question, but it must be done in such a way that, if questions arise, it can also be dealt with in a proportionate manner. I think that, among other things, we can improve the registration of still-born calves and that in some cases this has led to the blocking of a business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	I agree with the improvement: it can always be done. But i&r has its origins. In short: as a government but also as a sector, you want to know where the animals are, where they are going and where they came from. The same applies to dead animals. So you scared the shit out of me. Unfortunately, I also have some experience of crisis surrounding animal diseases, and I know how important it is to know where those animals are at that moment, regardless of whether they are alive or dead. I hope that the SGP Group does not want to undermine the i&r.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	No, we certainly don't intend to undermine the i&r. We only want to refine and improve it in such a way that it becomes an instrument that is absolutely reliable and provides information that makes it possible to take proportionate measures when things are detected that at first sight are somewhat miraculous. Because there are some other things that you should deal with differently in the context of i&r, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	Does the SGP Group agree with the Christian Union that it is of the utmost importance that I&R registration be restored in the interests of animal health, food safety and the trading position of our companies? Does the SGP Group agree with me? And does it see a responsibility there for the sector itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	In my view, I have made no mistake about the fact that it is of the utmost importance that registration is simply error-free. That's just a bit of an illusion; you'll never achieve that. There will always be mistakes, failures and unforeseen events. The point is, if you see that, you don't take the cannon, load it with as much hail as you can and shoot it. It's all about you operating surgically. You need to know exactly where to be. If the current system does not provide sufficient basis for this, then you really need to keep the current system under review, so that you do have that possibility. But the need for proper registration is in no way in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	The SGP has the same vision as the Christian Union. At the same time, I see that a lot of mistakes have been made unconsciously. LTO also speaks of a cultural change that is needed. There's just a bunch of shit in the system. If the sector itself is responsible for putting that registration in order, then surely it cannot be that the bill is deposited with the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	No, but I don't think I asked you to. I did ask, however, that, in those cases where the RVO has made a decoupling between mother sailors and multiples, it be demonstrated by a DNA test that they do belong together. Where that has been unjust, farmers have been burdened with unnecessary additional costs. Then it cannot be possible for the account to be deposited with a farmer who has done well in his own right. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	Your third question, Mrs Dik Faber. You have already asked two questions. You may ask a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	What I do see happening now is that farmers do indeed receive a bill for DNA research, rightly or wrongly. But let farmers appeal to each other. I think it is extremely important that the sector as a whole should take responsibility, rather than pointing to a government for mistakes that colleagues make among themselves. Isn't that what the SGP also stands for? If this situation were to occur in a completely different branch of sport, wouldn't it be crazy to look at the government to pay a bill for mistakes made by colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	I'm afraid I didn't fully explain it, or that I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	You can try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	Then I'm gonna try again. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I do not advocate that the bill should go to the government if there have been errors or whatever. I am talking about those farmers who had the place in order, who had done well in their own right, but who had to incur additional costs for DNA research through the decoupling of the mother horse and the multiple. I am in favour of not punishing these farmers with an extra bill. I say, in these cases, that has not been justified and, as a government, you cannot do just a few things and take action and then take the account of those people. I think you're punishing good behavior, and that's not right. That's what I argued.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	If I understand Mr Bishop correctly, he has doubts about the proportionality of the Minister's intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	Does Mr Bishop agree with me that this is a high degree of ex post wisdom? I did not hear the SGP Group so much about this at the beginning of this issue. I didn't hear about it that way. So it seems to me to be wisdom after all; that is an understatement. Would Mr Bishop agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	If I recall correctly, Mr Grashoff was also present at the general consultation in which this was the first to be discussed when it was hot off the needle. Then he must remember that this point was explicitly raised by Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders as well as by me and that I used the image at the time or we did not shoot a mosquito with a shot. That was too trivial; I recognize that, but I think it has been about that from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	In my view, Mr Bishop and the SGP were very convincing on this point and there were convincing reasons on that point, particularly given the risk profile of not having i&r in order. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that, if you allow yourself to be convincing in a good way at the time, you should not go back and say that proportionality is not right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	I really thank Mr Grashoff for the deep look in my psyche, but I do not remember finding it convincing at that time. Well, that's tricky, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	One point in the SGP colleague's speech is quite a trigger for me. It was stated that there should be consultation with the inter-branch organisation if we get signals of this kind. I know the SGP as a party that attaches great importance to administrative and constitutional purity, but isn't it inherent in independent supervision and enforcement that you're not going to have circle conversations behind the curtains, but that you're going to intervene, as the minister's service did? The second point is that Mr Bishop is asking for compensation. Is it real to ask for this politically here, when in our rule of law we simply have the rule that the damage can be recovered if the government operates illegally? Then why the plea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	Let me start with the latter: because I want to have the assurance that if there is proper action and proper registration and if external intervention is forced to incur costs, those who have acted lawfully and correctly will not also be burdened with financial burdens. With regard to the first point: if rules are clear and if findings are clear, we must of course simply intervene, but from the very beginning the number of multiples and the percentages that were then discussed were such irregularities and fraud. Then I say that as a government, you must exercise utmost care in order to define where the fraud is. Then you don't shoot a cannon shot at a couple of mosquitoes. That's what I mean to say. No messing around in back rooms, handcuffs and "we'll take care of it," so that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	In my view, it is inherent in supervision and enforcement that sometimes the good lead among the evil. That's how it works all over society. Perhaps only 1% of the population is inclined to steal a bicycle, but 100% of the bicycles are equipped with a bicycle lock. So that's kind of inherent in the system. My question to Mr Bishop is: does he think that our rule of law is not sufficient to bring about damage if the government has acted unlawfully in its supervision and enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	It seems to me that it will be clear from the answer given by the Minister whether the rule of law is sufficient on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Lodders, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that a feeling of unrest creeps up when you listen to the radio in the milk well on Tuesday morning and hear that 7,700 cattle farmers are suspected of fraud with the identification and registration system. You're not aware of any evil. Who are these 7,700 dairy farmers? Which colleagues have bypassed the rules and how can the scale be so enormous? Then you'll find out a few days later that your company has been locked down. Suddenly, you're one of the fraudsters. I understand there'll be panic. You work hard every day, for day and dew, in weather and wind, to take good care of your cows. You've had a rough time and you intend to hand over your business to your son. You're gonna fall raw on the roof. Because as it turns out, there is a heifer who has rejected a fruit. A feeling of powerlessness is coming to you. Try to fix it. This is the story of one of the many farmers I've been in touch with in the last few weeks. At first, the Minister said that 7,700 companies might have cheated. That's a firm statement. But now, a few weeks later, it becomes clear that the facts seem to be different. Of the approximately 400 remaining companies that are currently blocked, 190 have been assessed, but the information is not yet complete enough to draw real conclusions. That's quite a difference from a few weeks ago. Of course, the real fraudsters must be dealt with. Fraud is unacceptable, unacceptable and in no way acceptable. The identification and registration of cattle is important in the context of animal health and public health. In the event of an outbreak of an animal disease, we need to know very quickly where animals are or have been standing. My group therefore very much agrees with the Minister's firm approach to the fight against fraud. But the letters that the Minister shared with the Chamber and the statements in the press show that the large-scale fraud does not seem to be the size it initially appeared to be. In the media, the Minister has already stated that she underestimated the situation, so I summarize it. I would ask the Minister to reflect here in this Chamber on the process, communication and, perhaps the most important point, the impact on the sector. I also have a number of substantive questions. Mr. Chairman. I would like to know from the Minister how many companies are ultimately suspicious and where actual fraud has been detected. When can the Minister clarify this? And does the Minister agree with the VVD Group that this clarity needs to be established quickly and also necessary to restore confidence in the sector? It is about consumer confidence in the farmer and the farmer's confidence in the ministry and the government. And can the Minister explain why she has chosen to block the entire farm in the detection of the administrative error, and why the blockade is not limited to the individual animal? These questions have been asked before, but I think it is important to bring them up again here. Mr. Chairman. This whole issue is about the identification and registration of cattle. I do not understand why farmers' signals have not been picked up much earlier. Employees of the RVO and NVWA have done a lot of work. They were available for questions seven days a week. Much appreciation from my group for that commitment. But have the signals of administrative errors that have already come to us in the first few days been adequately picked up? Is there sufficient practical knowledge to recognise these signals and to assess the consequences of large-scale intervention? The wretchedness of this issue is that it has become painfully clear that the i&r system has not functioned or functioned properly. There were administrative shortcomings, with annoying consequences. My final question to the Minister is to improve the system as quickly as possible. I ask her to set up an advisory group of farmers in daily practice to provide input for a well-functioning i&r system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mrs. Lodders asks the Minister to reflect. That's always wise. However, I would also ask the VVD Group to give an opinion on the role of the minister in this, and specifically on the use of the word 'fraud' in the first letter of Parliament, which we received on 23 January. That's actually what it started with. There have been several speeches about fraud or possible fraud. How does the VVD look at that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	It's always good to look back afterwards. Then you often come to a different judgment. I remember very well where I was that Tuesday morning when that letter was sent to the Chamber. I think we had a debate in the Chamber on that Tuesday evening. At that time, I spoke great words in the direction of the sector, because on the basis of the figures presented, I had no choice but to draw the conclusion that this was very large-scale. So based on the information I had, I came to that conclusion. I ask the Minister to reflect on how she looks at those first days. I can't look into the Minister's head as far as her analysis is concerned. All I can do is tell you what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	I understand Mrs Lodder's reaction at the time, because I, too, was very indignant by the letter of information we received. But I believe that the use of the word 'fraud' in that letter is crucial. This is later explicitly no longer used in the Ministry's communication. Something has changed at that point. Mrs Lodders himself has an opinion on things, that is my experience, so I would like to ask her explicitly whether she does not consider the use of the word 'fraud' to be appropriate at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	You can only judge that on the basis of the data you had. I read in the letter that 7,700 companies were knowingly cheated. You need to be able to make the analysis on the basis of the data. In retrospect, I would have liked that clarification: that a distinction was made between administrative shortcomings..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because there are, but fortunately that size is much smaller. I'd have preferred that distinction before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	For the sake of clarity, I meant to ask if you thought the Minister's use of the term fraud was unwise. That Mrs. Lodders and I used that term doesn't strike me as odd if you get a letter that says so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	In retrospect, we also read in the media that the Minister underestimated the impact of the use. That is why I ask her to reflect here in this Chamber. I think it's of great value and commitment that you're putting on the penance rug. That's what happened. It's like, "Oh, my God, I underestimated this." I believe that we also have a right here to the Minister's analysis. That is why I am pleased that we are having this debate here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	Good morning. I heard Mrs Lodder say, just before she was interrupted the first time, that there must be some sort of reflection group from the farmers. Then my question to Mrs Lodders is: we have LTO Netherlands as a representative of the interests and the Dutch dairy farmers Trade Union, who is always doing very meritorious work; doesn't Mrs Lodders think that is enough? Looks like you're gonna want a third group of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	What I think is important is that people who spend seven days a week working on their animals and who have a lot of examples of where they went wrong and from where they sometimes come from, also have the opportunity to bring that in, in order to ensure that there is a functioning system. Why is that so important to me? This whole situation, which now lasts a few weeks, has had a huge impact on people in daily practice. I think it's really good and it really helps if you can do your story. That is also what I hear from people who have spoken to people who have been working on this issue from the Ministry in recent weeks. That is why I would like to summarize that group in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	I have indeed done well, because if they have to be heard separately, that actually means that LTO and the Dutch dairy farmers Trade Union are not working properly. In fact, that should be done through the representatives of the interests. Does Mrs Lodder agree with me that Team Agro NL is also a very good team, although it is not directly a representative of interests? We met them in Berlin, with the minister. You should involve them, even if it's not a representative of the interests. I think the ladies of Team Agro NL always say very sensible things. We'd better get them involved, too. Perhaps you can support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mr Graus spoke a number of words. Mr Graus mentioned the representatives of the interests LTO, the trade unions and Team Agro NL. There's a lot more like that. I think they do very important things. What is very important to me is that people, farmers, can also give their input from the yard. They've been hit hugely in the last few weeks. I've noticed that it helps in the conversations I've had with people. I hope the Minister will be open to that, too. To say disrespectfully, no circus needs to be rigged. The very feeling that they are taken seriously is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u40	I happen to follow those ladies from Team Agro NL and I can say that they do not hesitate to do a falsehood every now and then. My question to Mrs Lodder is as follows. People who are concerned with the laws of statistics say: if it is really only about administrative shortcomings, then you would expect that such imperfection is as often at the disadvantage of the farmer as it is to the advantage. Mrs. Lodders gets a lot of emails from farmers. Does it have any signs that these administrative shortcomings have also worked to the detriment of farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yeah, especially at a disadvantage. Perhaps Mrs Ouwehand wanted to ask whether it worked in favour of farmers. It works especially at the disadvantage of farmers, because it is an administrative imperfection if reports that have been made have not been put into the CRV or CR Delta system I always get those mixed up or in the system of RVO. This may be due to a malfunction in the system or to a misnumbering of the ear, as was said just now in the interrupting debate with Mr Bishop. Those are actions that take place and can get out wrong. If it occurs once or twice on a lot of reports in a year, then I am talking about an administrative imperfection, which is to the detriment of it. The Minister has a duty to ensure that the i&r system is in order at that time. So she's right to talk to people about it, but you can't call it fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u42	We agree that it is a huge disadvantage for the sector as a whole. But I'm talking about the fact that sometimes you have a direct advantage when you're wrongly administering. Your cow will then be used for less phosphate production than is actually the case. If it really is only administrative shortcomings, statisticians say that sometimes it should be accidentally in favour of the farmer, but then it should also happen that another time it is accidentally at the disadvantage of the farmer. I'm kind of looking for the answer to that question. Mrs Lodders gets a lot of emails from farmers, so maybe she knows if that happens. Does it ever get mis-administrated, causing the farmer himself to suffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u43	The farmers are particularly affected when it is wrongly administered. Mrs Ouwehand points to something I think we agree on. If a farmer knowingly, knowingly, puts a calf in a cow........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then it's just fraud. I very much support the Minister's view that we need to tackle this very hard. All farmers share this with Mrs Ouwehand and me, because they are fraudsters. And we shouldn't allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u44	I have a very brief question: do Mrs Lodders and the VVD Group think that the Minister has correctly carried out her supervisory and enforcement role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u45	I asked the Minister to reflect on that. She's about to. If I have to answer your question now, I would like to say that I gave my opinion on communication. I've already said several things about that. When it comes to finding that there are administrative errors in the I&R system, Brussels rules require that they be addressed. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u46	Do you have another question? That's your fourth, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u47	I think my question was very compact. Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists believe that the Minister has correctly carried out its supervisory and enforcement tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u48	The question is very compact, but if I give a very compact answer, that can be explained differently. Yes, the Minister must indeed act at the moment when deficiencies are noted in the system. That's what the Minister did. The central question here is whether you can talk about alleged fraud and manipulation in that large group of 7,700 companies. Well, that turns out to be different. But if any shortcomings have been noted in the administration, the Minister can only correct those administrative errors. I support the Minister in that. What that means for communication, I think I have already indicated it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u50	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's press release in January talked about signs of fraud and crackdown on fraudulent farmers. The press release, the letter of the Chamber and the Minister's explanation led the media to talk about farmers who cheat on a large scale with the registration of the number of dairy cows they have. Heads appeared as "mass fraud in cattle farms." The Minister spoke at some point about the social support of the sector at stake. Columnists spoke shamefully of our farmers. I saw articles in reputable newspapers with lyrics like "farmers are anarchists who put the rules into their hands and for those who say they didn't know about the fraud are like spokesmen of a cycling squad that is doping." They spoke out what had become the mood in our country at that time. Mr. Chairman. Fraud must be tackled and the CDA supports the Minister. From the figures available, I can see that no more than 60 farms do not book five or more animals properly. But the image of massive fraud still lingers. The Dutch dairy farming industry has been given serious accusations and these reports have totally overshadowed the incredible efforts made by dairy farming in terms of phosphate reduction. The Dutch dairy farming, our farmers, our farmers, have been found guilty before a judge has convicted them. The CDA deeply regrets that so many hard-working families have been highlighted so negatively. Fortunately, Minister Schouten has also indicated in the media that it was not her intention at all to throw away an entire sector as fraudulent. That is why the next question. How does Minister Schouten intend to correct the image of mass fraud, not only towards our Dutch society but also towards abroad? Mr. Chairman. In the Minister's letters, the choice of words has already changed. In the letters, it sounds more like i&r has to knock. The CDA is not convinced that it was proportionate to block companies where a cow was misregistered or where a report of a stillborn calf had not been passed through. Because what are we talking about? The Minister's letter now states that this is expected to be 5,000 cows on 4 million cows in the Netherlands. This concerns 1,500 companies where about 1 LU was not properly registered. Would the Minister care to reflect on this? The question is also important on the basis of which analysis the Minister concluded. Was there no differentiated, proportionate approach possible? And then I'm gonna go into tech. Article 2 of Regulation 494/98 refers to the fact that all animals are blocked if 20% of the animals do not fully comply with the identification and registration conditions. Article 4 to which the Minister refers in her letter does not refer to "all" but to restrict the movement of animals. Does this distinction in the regulation mean that a distinction could have been made in relation to specific animals rather than blocking a full holding or holdings in the case of unregistered stillborn calves? Does the regulation provide sufficient legal basis to block all animals on a holding if the registration of a single animal is not complete? The CDA Group would like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u51	I hear a very hard story from Mr Geurts here. He doesn't really leave much of this minister's entire policy. Following Mr Moorlag in the direction of Mrs Lodders, I would now like to ask Mr Geurts whether he still has confidence in this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u52	I do not know what Mr Grashoff has heard. My speech is as follows. I have indicated what of the whole lingered in society. I've indicated that if you look at the facts, it's not about thousands, it's about dozens. I have indicated that I am happy that Minister Schouten has indicated in the media that it was not her intention at all to turn the whole sector away as fraudulent. I really like that. What ruler has done that in recent years? I don't understand where your words come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u53	I think Mr Geurts should be pleased with my interruption, because he is already correcting a lot. He also changes his tone a lot. But that leaves him with the question of whether he wants to say whether he has that confidence or whether he has that confidence in this minister. For that doubt does arise in my view as a result of Mr Geurts' hard-hitting story. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u54	Apparently, I'm far too clear for GroenLinks. Or the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance thought: Mr Geurts is going to say this and this. I have every confidence in the Minister. If you want that answer, I have every confidence in the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u55	Also on this point. In the actual round of questions in preparation for this debate, the Minister received extensive questions on how the i&r rules should have been interpreted. I have read all those answers and my conclusion is that she has followed the rules exactly as they are meant to be. So she had no choice. Now I hear the CDA say: I do not think the Minister has done so. That's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u56	Of course, I have also seen the questions and the answers to them. I have just argued how we read the regulation. I also always try to learn from a crisis how to possibly improve it to the future. I think this is a good place for the Minister to discuss not only statically on paper, but also one-on-one: is it about all animals, 20%? I just turned it all in. I thought it was a good opportunity at this place and right now to start this discussion one-on-one with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u57	Then I understand that these are open questions and that the CDA, as Mr Grashoff has already pointed out, does not go as far as the impression was given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u58	I think GroenLinks and the Party for Animals like to put this frame on me, but that frame is totally unjustified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u59	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the stinger has been removed from the debate by the publications that have been published in recent days in the Volkskrant and Boerderij, among others, in which the Minister has indicated a nuance. The PvdA Group takes the view that the integrity of the i&r system should in no way be questioned. That system of registration was set up in the interests of public health and guaranteeing the quality of our food, traceability. If there are any doubts as to whether the system is being properly applied, I fully understand that the Minister must intervene from the point of view of supervision and enforcement. In that light, I also understand the Minister's action as she has acted. If there are clues, you have to fill in that monitoring and enforcement role in a pure way. Afterwards, it can be seen that the good suffer once again from the evil. This is so often the case with supervision and enforcement. We see this not only in the domain of the agricultural sector, but also in other areas. In judicial justice, we see that. When it comes to irregularities with benefits, it is always the case that the good can suffer from the evil. It is now important that the goats be separated from the sheep as soon as possible and that the restrictions imposed on those entrepreneurs who are in good faith have been removed as soon as possible. I also note that the Minister has worked very hard on this. This incident shows once again how unstable our agricultural system is. We are going from incident to incident and we really need to go deeper into this debate. The system is bursting. We can't go on like this. This system of production is predatory on nature, landscape and living environment and on the farmers. The system has so much production pressure that farmers really have to look up the edges of the rules in order to earn an income. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group believes that a transformation in agriculture is needed. I argued in favour of this in the budget debate: a broad agreement with nature and environmental organisations, with agriculture and with the public authorities, along the lines of the energy and climate agreement. We need to get to another system. I see in the coalition agreement that this is a very unstable wording: on the one hand, circular agriculture, which Mr De Groot of D66 is very in favour of, but on the other hand, it should not be reduced to volume. This reflects the views of CDA and VVD. Does the Minister share the view that it cannot go on like this and that there really needs to be a substantial change in the system? And doesn't the Minister agree with the PvdA that, if we want to balance economy and ecology, we need to move to a different system and to new models of income for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u61	You were in the middle of a rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u62	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u63	Okay. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr Moorlag refers to the coalition agreement, but only to part of the coalition agreement. A part of which I and the D66 Group fully support, and of course the other government parties too. But if you read the entire coalition agreement, you will also see that 200 million has been allocated to invest in the adjustment of pig farming in those areas where there are currently problems with the environment or people living around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u65	But I also see that there is no real fundamental change of course. I understand that, because the views of D66 differ on the one hand and the views of the other coalition parties on the other. You can write it down in such a way as to suggest that you can bake an omelet without breaking eggs, but that tension is inherent to my taste in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u66	I do not, of course, agree with that, because it is precisely the profit of this coalition agreement that we are now discussing the future of the sector with all those involved. So exactly what Mr Moorlag is advocating is this minister doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u67	At the same time, I cannot see that a broad and generic agreement on agriculture and nature is being worked out. That is what the PvdA Group really needs in order to make a fundamental change, also in view of the fact that new challenges are coming to the sector as a result of the energy and climate agreement to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u68	I heard my colleague Mr Moorlag talk about a better model of income for farmers, but that is an adopted Graus motion. That motion was unanimously supported and is being worked on. I will ask a question about this in a moment. Moreover, this better earning model should be borne by the retail sector. Our farmers are the highest net contributors, just as we are per capita, to the European Union, but we are not the highest net recipients. We also have a great deal of regulatory misery in the European Union. How does Mr Moorlag stand in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u69	Firstly, I would like to point out that I am never getting the signal from the agricultural organisation, the LTO, that we should get rid of the European Union or that European cooperation would not be good. For let us be: our national agricultural sector is, of course, a huge exporter. Much of the income we earn in the sector is earned elsewhere in Europe by our exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u70	That has nothing to do with it. We have had trade treaties and bilateral trade agreements for centuries. Look at Switzerland: that had a trade agreement with China before the whole of the European Union together. That's bullshit, of course. If we leave the European Union, we can just trade with other countries, so that's bullshit. I would advise Mr Moorlag to talk to farmers outside the LTO, because then you often hear other stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u71	I would like to draw Mr Graus' attention to the fact that, in the agricultural sector, there is a fear of the Brexit, of all kinds of obstacles and of new administrative obligations that will arise in order to export to the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr. Chairman. I'm closing my plea. Once again, I would like to call for the development of a broad agreement on agriculture and nature in order to achieve a better balance between ecology and the economy. My final question to the Minister is: is the Minister prepared to go down that road, or does she allow the shore to turn the ship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr. Chairman. I was taught at home that you can't have everything and that you always have to choose in life. My dad worked construction since he was 15, had a really bad back and wanted to quit work early. That's why we didn't go on vacation and lived economically, so my dear father could get out of construction early. We didn't complain that we couldn't go on vacation. That's not a problem. You choose something and you accept the consequences. The art of choosing is that you look at your options, see the consequences of all options and then make your choice, and therefore also fully accept the consequences. If you choose a business that is morally controversial, you can expect to be criticised. For the production of milk, a cow must throw a calf every year, which is removed from her within a few hours of birth, while everyone knows that that calf needs its mother and that the cow just gave birth wants to take care of her own young. If you choose freedom, happiness after releasing the milk quota, that the sector organisations LTO and NZO very much wanted to get the best out of the can, then you know you can get the lid on the nose. And if you choose to export to all corners of the world, you know that there are a lot of administrative burdens and that such long chains are extremely vulnerable. And so also that if something is wrong somewhere, there will be heavy efforts and measures to protect that chain again. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party has the impression that the farmers' representatives may well think it is the individual farmers, but the sector organisations are finding accepting these consequences a bit difficult and also a bit of a dodge for their own responsibility in it. When it appeared that there were administrative shortcomings in the registration of animals in dairy farming, the Minister actively informed the Chamber. We appreciate that very much. The discussion later focused on whether she should have used the word 'fraud'. I've read the letters just as well, so have the press releases. I guess it didn't mean much. If the Chamber had had had that debate on what the Minister had written, there had been irregularities in the registration of dairy cows; that could mean this and that for the reduction of phosphate, we would have asked: yes, but let's just call it man and horse, isn't that just called fraud? So my impression is that there would be talk of fraud anyway. What is more important in order to bring this sector's responsibility to bear, is that the Minister has asked us a great deal of questions in the preparation for this debate, and has implemented the rules as it is required. If the sector in the media says that the minister is going too far and there is insufficient reason for these serious measures, then I really wonder whether the sector is not diving away again from the choice it has made. The sector has been closely involved in writing the i&r rules, closely involved in all the choices made by the government. Then you must also be man enough to say: yes, this is part of our choice to export all over the world. And if that bothers us all, then maybe we should make other choices. Mr. Chairman. And that is also what the Animal Party will ultimately settle for the minister. It must constantly juggle the rules it has to comply with and protect the image of the sector. That sector is at a crossroads of roads and in the middle of a crossroads it is dangerous. The government is expected to be averted all the time from traffic coming from left and right and all the threats, while a much more sensible choice would be to just take a path where it is quieter. If we want to be the milkman and the butcher of the world, we will continue to be in this kind of situation. You don't have to. It can be quieter, with a better earning model for the farmers. Make your choice, it'll make everyone happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is increasing clarity as to the extent and causes of irregularities in the registration of calves. I thank the Minister for keeping the Chamber informed on a weekly basis. There is no doubt that the i&r system should be in order because of animal health, food safety and commercial interests. In addition, it must be made clear as soon as possible where fraud has actually taken place, so that friendly family and family farms can return to their farms and dispose of animals. Mr. Chairman. Over 2,000 farms are blocked because the records of calves were incorrect. The figures and the systems do not indicate whether there is fraud or unconscious irregularities. The Minister would, of course, like to wait for the follow-up. First of all, the remaining 400 blocked companies are being investigated, but there is also a need for research in at least some of the 1,700 unblocked companies. How much time does this investigation take? The real fraud must be quickly detected. Mr. Chairman. The burden of proof in the case of irregularities was placed on the farmer, but in recent weeks the pressure on the RVO and NVWA to get the administration in order. As a result, many business blockades lasted longer than desirable. The dilemma is that the i&r system should be just right and that we should also be able to quickly separate the real fraud from unconscious errors in the system. There is also an important responsibility for the sector itself. How does the Minister, together with the sector, intend to prevent this situation in the future? Mr. Chairman. The i&r system is indispensable for animal safety and food safety, but it was found that due to the irregularities it was not reliable. There's definitely been a wake-up call in the sector. 650 companies, additional to the 1,700 unblocked companies, have adapted the administration on their own initiative. How will the Minister work with the sector to ensure that many more companies organise their i&r registration? Mr. Chairman. The question is justified as to whether the i&r system has functioned so well in recent years, given the current extent of the irregularities. Apparently, there's a lot going wrong unconsciously. I read, for example, that it often goes wrong in the case of death reports of calves via Rendac. We also see many complaints from farmers about the reporting system itself. Farmers who wanted to correct incorrect registrations themselves say that not all notifications have been properly processed by RVO. Mr. Chairman. I think it is important today to look to the future as well. The Minister states in an earlier letter that she wants to see if improvements in the system are possible. The sector also encourages measures to put the I&R system in order. How does the Minister intend to deal with this together with the sector? The sector itself is talking about a cultural change. I think it's a good thing the sector picks up that glove. Improving the reporting system is one, but the culture of reporting must also be improved in order to avoid future situations of blockages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr. Chairman. If I try to move into the minister's position when the report came to her desk about the mistakes in the i&r system, where you get the information on your desk that suddenly there are a lot more multiples than statistically possible, information that can only point to fraud, then I understand that you're scratching behind the ears. Then I understand that you are doing so in the light of the fact that there are already more discussions about fraud and large-scale fraud. Then I understand that, given the fact that this is the i&r system, an extremely sensitive animal disease system, you're scratching behind your ears again and finally you come to the conclusion that there's nothing else you can do here but intervene very firmly and very hard. That is what this Minister has done, and we appreciate it. I should like to express my appreciation for the fact that the Minister has acted decisively and has informed the Chamber immediately. There is appreciation and respect for that on the part of GroenLinks. If at the end of the day it turns out to be different, it is to this minister's credit that she says that to the public and makes consequences in the sense of an excuse. That's two pluses and not one minus and one plus. It's two pluses. It is something else, when it comes to the reaction from the sector organisation. On 23 January, the president of the LTO called it "unprofessional, antisocial, terribly stupid what the farmers had done." Three weeks later he says: "The minister must stop treating farmers like criminals." That's a change of scenery for a while. I haven't seen a minister treating farmers like criminals, I've seen a minister do that operation where it was needed and as much as the information that was available at that time was needed. If that's framed as "treating farmers like criminals," it says something about the one who's framet. At some point, you're gonna call it off about yourself, too. Mr. Chairman. However, there are a number of critical questions which, I presume, also concern the Minister. How can it be that the information contained in these crosschecks, as the Minister himself calls it, is so obvious that there is a very serious signal between systems that you have to respond to at that time, and that the reality is different after all? That suggests that that check is less reliable than it should have been or was thought to be. Would the Minister be able to reflect on this? How could this happen? How could this signal be so strong? What was really wrong with this initial analysis and how could this be prevented in the future? For that is clear: we should all be pleased that this fraud existed on a considerably smaller scale than was initially suspected. That is good news, but it does not prevent us from trying in future to prevent information from acting in such a way that it is later found that this information is less strict, less waterproof, less reliable than we would have liked. I would very much like a clear answer from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is well known internationally when it comes to our control of food safety and animal health. Our systems are trusted abroad, and that's worth a lot of money. We are very proud of our exports, our products here, but that does drive this confidence. This brings with it a great responsibility for our farmers to ensure that the systems we have agreed on are right down to the capillaries. One of the tasks of the Minister is to ensure food safety and animal health. Within the framework of the phosphate reduction plan, it encountered deviations in the i&r system which could undermine the said plan. It is perfectly right that the Minister should immediately report this to the Chamber in the order of things on 23 January with the knowledge she had at that time. She calls the picture she sketches of the deviations: not acceptable. After performing crosschecks on multiples and heifers older than 27 months, 5,600 companies are excluded from the selection. This is reported by the Minister on 8 February. Does this mean that companies between 2,100 and 7,700 companies have their i&r administration in order? Was there a photo taken of the records of those companies? Why did the Minister abandon that multiple approach over 10%, as she replied in the letter of 8 March? Why does the Minister actually step away from this multiple approach and move on to the heifer-in-the-milk approach? On Friday 9 February, I am getting more and more distressed signals from the sector. One of the drivers went off the phone at the Frisian. After 15 minutes, he asked me if I understood Frisian. I was able to answer that in the affirmative. But the emotion was good. True anger is understandable in every language. On 20 February, there will be more clarity as to where the fraud is likely to be. In 50 farms 5 to 10 livestock units are blocked and in 10 farms more than 300 animals are blocked. Question to the Minister: Is this the so-called fraud? On 8 March, the Minister announced that recovery reports were underway and that 1,800 companies could be unblocked. I am trying to peel off: if the Minister had reported 23 January that there were some 60 companies suspected that there were heifers in the milk, would it have gone quite differently? Wouldn't there have been a whole sector locked up? Wouldn't farmers have felt so compromised in their integrity? The i&r system must be correct. Also with two heifers in the milk you are in violation. It's a good thing the Minister's doing her job here. You'll be trespassing, not a fraud. The Minister has already said something about the choice of words that has played a role in this. That's very much appreciated. I'm worried about a side effect of this case. Since her arrival, this minister has been busy with avian influenza, manure fraud, pulse kor-misère and this i&r tragedy. Some of them are symptoms of a system that is in need of a thorough overhaul and on which we have agreed in the coalition agreement. D66 is mainly responsible for the implementation of that coalition agreement. That's why I'm asking you a few questions. When are these long-term visions coming? Any agreements on climate? What about health and the risks to the environment in areas with high livestock density? What is the situation with regard to the continuation of national parks policy? And what about smaller cases such as the treatment of animal meal bans, food waste, the North Sea, IJsselmeer, barn fires, soil passports, linking food policy to prevention, sector problems and the Wadden Sea, to name but a few? Mr President, we must also get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mrs Ouwehand has two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u83	I know this analysis of D66. I'll share that. If the Minister has to deal with all kinds of fraud or administrative deficiencies and everything in between, then there is not much we can do. I would ask D66 to give the right signals to the Minister himself. Is it wise now to continue to bet on making our export territory even bigger if you know that these long chains are long and vulnerable? What choices does D66 give the Minister if she asks him to come up with those plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u84	Those choices were partly made in the coalition agreement and, to some extent, we discussed them with each other during the budget debate. The good thing is that we then adopted a motion with each other that goes exactly in the direction of looking much stronger from the cycle at our production system, from a different relationship between animal and plant, from much more residual flows to processing, removing legal barriers to it and much more based on soil health. I won't keep the whole story again. The direction we have actually given as a Chamber is very clear. I would also like to hear from the Minister when she comes up with those long-term visions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u85	Then let me keep it very specific. In answering the questions before this debate, the cabinet also acknowledged: the more exports, the more administrative burdens and controls. Is D66 at least prepared to recognise this as one of the factors that we must take into account if we want to achieve sustainable, sustainable agriculture for the future, so that this export also has very, very serious disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u86	I think that in all cases you will have a lot to do with exports, but even if you wouldn't export, you still have to have your systems that guarantee animal health and food safety in order. There's no doubt about that. Those, I think, are loose ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you, Madam President. I'm replacing my sick colleague Madlener, although I'm sick myself, but yes, you've got knights and squires, so I'm the one who had to beat the crap out of it. Madam President, I do not always believe what is in the newspapers, but often we are the first to receive information by this route. I just actually have a lot of questions. The PVV wants, let it be very clear, that fraudsters are being treated hard. That has really been our line for 11 years: tackling fraudsters hard, also to protect benevolent farmers, so protecting the good farmers because otherwise you will have an uneven playing field with false competition. Naming-and-shaming, prison sentences, towering fines related to the crime, a lifetime ban on keeping animals, you name it all. But now it appears that the title of this debate alone is actually wrong. I hear that from our figurehead of Team Agro NL, Frau Femke. As we know with the cheese Frau Antje, we know with Team Agro the figurehead Frau Femke. That's a dairy farmer, and so is a well-known dairy farmer. The title is already wrong, because it concerns irregularities and not large-scale fraud. So she may have a point there. The Minister may be able to respond to that. How many real frauds have there been now? What is the current state of affairs? I've heard a lot of information, including through the Ministry and the press, and I can't really tie any more strings to it, because it's changing pretty fast. How many real fraudsters are there and how many minor irregularities, and what measures are being taken against them? Indeed, as has already been said, we must have a competitive and future-proof plan of action. Is the Minister willing to come up with that? Then I won't have to table another motion for that. If the minister just says, "Mr. Graus, I'll admit it, we're done." I'd like that very much. Then I don't always have to make motions, Madam President. How can we, as the Chamber, possibly assist the Minister in this? After all, the Minister is not the great Almighty Self. We in the Chamber have a lot of power, too. How can we assist the Minister? I have a question, too. We must do something to make the business of farmers and the love of the profession more attractive. There's been an passed motion on that better earning model. Thank you to the whole Chamber, because everyone has supported that. This has to be borne by the retail sector, because that is where the big money is made. How's that going? Then there is the European Union. The farmers are being turned in front of a wheel. They're the highest net contributor and they're being obstructed. Think of all that crazy fertilizer legislation! While manure is "the brown gold." It's not waste. It is the best building, soil and energy substance there is, rich in scarce phosphates, phosphates needed for humans and animals to connect oxygen. So what the hell are we doing with these Brussels bureaucrats here, as we say in Limburg, 'let us make the piss lukewarm'. That is an expression as we say it, Madam President. That does not need to be included in the Acts, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u89	Everything is recorded in the Acts. And broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you, Madam President. I mean, maybe it's not... it's not... it's not... it's not... it's not... it's not... it's not... it's not... it's not... it's... it's not... it's not... it's not... What I find even worse... No, I'll get an answer to that in a minute. I also want to know what the Minister is doing to prevent image damage, because our farmers are well known worldwide. Just as the Swiss know the watches and the Germans know the bolides like Porsche and BMW, so our farmers also have a bit of that high-quality name. The Chinese are beating each other's heads to get our milk powder. It also has to do with image damage. What's the Minister gonna do about it? But what I find even worse than fraud, Madam President, is the starvation of thousands of defenceless animals in the Oostvaardersplassen. I can understand very well that farmers say: we are making mistakes in the administration; that is and cannot be done. Many have restored this, but in the Oostvaardersplassen tens of thousands of animals have died of starvation in recent years. You don't even give it to the biggest criminal. I can very well imagine, and I say this as an animal ambassador and as a farmer's spokesman, why don't you do something about it first? That's much worse than administrative fraud. There's not enough NVWA. I have been asking for years to increase the quality and quantity of the NVWA's manpower. But first go deal with the really bad things and then the farmers. If a farmer lets one animal die, the NVWA is right on the doorstep, the animal police, you name it, but tens of thousands of animals face starvation and that is not possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u92	The Minister cannot put that on the delegates, because here is the shepherd and the keeper of the sheep and of all animals in the Netherlands. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you, and I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar as the last speaker on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the calf has drowned, the well is muffled. That was already known, but now we know that the calf in question is not always properly introduced into our identification and registration system. If we look at what we can best call "the i&r affair," instead of "i&r fraud," then it's actually about two questions. Firstly, to what extent can we determine the difference between administrative irregularities and genuine fraud? Secondly, if you realize that it is a problem, how wise is it to use the word "fraud"? To begin with, Mr President, over the last few months we have seen the language of the LNV Ministry shifted. On 23 January it was "the fraud of data in i&r' and on 20 February it was "the irregularities detected in i&r'. That's a shift in language, but there's more to it. The letter of 23 January referred to falsehood in writing and possible criminal prosecution. On February 20, it was only about making the registration throbbing. My first question to the Minister is, in general terms, whether she still supports her letter of 23 January. More specifically, on 23 January, the Minister stated that 23 companies where inspections were carried out had confirmed the suspicion of fraud. That's a firm verdict on fraud. In its letter of 20 February, the Minister in general stated that the background to the irregularities was difficult to establish. What is it now? Does the Minister still argue with the first 23 companies that the term 'fraud' applies there, or did she use it prematurely in the letter of 23 January? In general, I would like to ask the following. Has there been a feeling somewhere between the two letters to the Minister and the Ministry of LNV that there has been a major error in communication? The Minister has become cautious about using the term "fraud" in this case. That is something we can imagine. What should be clear, however, is the number of concrete sanctions resulting from this affair so far, regardless of the number of blockades, which is, of course, also a form of sanction. For example, how many administrative fines have been paid so far? And what's the idea of that? Has the criminal path been followed in some cases? Is there any recovery of income support, which was also discussed? What actually emerged from the consultation with the Public Prosecutor announced in the first letter? Even if you want to avoid the term 'fraud', you can make a distinction between a small administrative irregularity, which can perhaps be improved without any sanction, and a larger one, which you find should be opposed to. What exactly are we talking about? How many of these errors are relatively mild and how many are indicative of a larger problem? What is clear, though, is that much has already been said about the irregularities and they were in our i&r system. That's a big problem. I think they're sharing that Chamberwide. As far as the SP is concerned, the blockades were justified and proportionate. That's what I want to say here. Whether this is due to the system of i&r or to different users who are not keen enough on it, I cannot judge, but it must be true. I understand that the Minister is in talks with the sector to solve these problems. I would like to hear a deadline when we can expect an improvement plan for this. And how long has Mrs Dik-Faber referred to this? How come signals that something isn't going well don't seem to get to the Ministry sooner? How long have there been, perhaps thousands, wrong registrations in our system? The last question. This affair began with the observation of an unusual increase in the number of multiples in calves. That was the reason for the suspicion. In 2017, there was an unexplained increase compared to previous years. Is there any explanation for this? Has the observation been incorrect? Is the deviation less spectacular than expected or has 2017 actually been a miracle year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u95	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u96	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of your Chamber for the questions, comments and reflections that have been made on the issues that have been going on around the multiples in recent weeks, around the i&r and everything that has happened around it. Mr. Chairman. Shall I first explain to the administration how I hope to respond? After that, I can go through with an introduction and such. Firstly, I would like to keep a more general story in terms of reflection, requested by some of your members, with some preliminary reflections. Then I will answer the more specific questions about the nature and extent of the irregularities. Then there are the questions about the legal basis for the blockades, the questions about the financial implications for the sector, the questions about the improvements of i&r and how to proceed with them, and then there are a few things that fall into the category of others. But first of all, the reflection and reflection that some Members have asked for, which I understand very well. I'm just gonna go back to the way it started. In January, I received data on the number of multiples that were statistically significantly different from 2015 and 2016. I also sent that data to your room. In that you can see that in a number of months in 2017, the number of multiples was really quite higher than what we could call statistically significant. When I saw those numbers, the first question was, what's behind this, what's going on here, what's going on here, how did this happen? That is why I said at the time: we must also look at what is going on in a number of companies. We visited a number of companies at the time. I reported that to your office. This showed that in such a number of cases it was simply not true. That combination was the statistically inexplicable higher number of multiples and what we saw from the sample we had then taken was reason enough for me to inform your Chamber of the fact that we had suspected fraud there. Your room has asked what happened there. We wanted to see what was really going on at those 7,700 companies. I had already indicated, also towards the Chamber, that it is virtually impossible to visit all those companies. We must make a selection. We have done so by comparing administrative data. On the one hand, the milk lists, i.e. which farms and which animals supply milk, and on the other hand, the question whether those animals are also in the i&r system as milk delivery. From the crosscheck we did, it appeared that in 2,100 cases we have reduced that to 2,000, because 100 cases turned out to be wrongly... the match in the data did not match. In other words, they were listed in the i&r system as non-milking animals, while in practice they were milk-producing. As I have also informed your Chamber, this could bring a financial benefit, as it was linked to the whole discussion on the phosphate reduction plan. Members also said: at some point, the discussion shifted from the multiples to the i&r. That's right. That's the reason for this. The multiples were the reason for us to go and see exactly what was going on. Because we were going to compare it in the systems, we saw that there were quite a few irregularities in the i&r. I then acted on that by blocking those companies. I will come to the exact legal basis in a moment, because there have been very specific questions about this. I'll be more specific about that in a moment. But the fact that I blocked those companies stems from the fact that the i&r has to be in order. And the i&r was out of order in those cases. A number of members have indicated: you will only stand in the milk well one day and think "young, what's going on?" And see the next day that you're one of them. I can very well imagine that I say that to Members, but also to farmers who may be watching, that it may fall on your roof. I've spoken to those farmers myself. I've spoken to them and I've heard how they were themselves touched by the idea that they would be a fraud. I also informed the Chamber that I cannot see exactly behind the figures who deliberately and who did this unwillingly. On the basis of the figures I have, I cannot see whether there is fraud or not. I can tell it's not right. But I have also seen in recent weeks that there has been a great deal of unrest about the word 'fraud'. That's got a load that made the whole sector feel like it was being thrown away. That wasn't my intention. That was never really my intention. I see that there are a lot of hard-working farmers working day and day to day to provide our food, who are committed to it with heart and soul and who are not focused on fraudulent action. I can't rule out it happening. That was also the reason to act on the numbers. But it is a fact that this unrest has arisen and that individual farmers are not familiar with their situation. That wasn't my intention. I underestimated the impact of that word. I reported that in the newspaper last Saturday, but I have done so in the Farm before. I would like to repeat that here too. I think it's important to do that here. But let's say that the Chamber would ask me, what do you do when these figures come back to your office tomorrow? Then my answer is: then I'm going to intervene again. Because it is of such great importance that the i&r is in order. It is also laid down by law that action should be taken if it is not correct. Which means I'm gonna have to get the i&r back on track. That's gonna stay on top of it. It is of the utmost importance for everyone, not least for the sector itself, that they see that our i&r is right, and that we can also say that to anyone who wants to hear it. If an animal disease breaks out, I am extremely grateful that it did not happen. We must be able to say with our hands on our hearts: we can trace where these animals come from, we can isolate them very quickly and there are no risks to public health. I hope that we will not underestimate that interest in all the discussions we have had in recent weeks, despite all the emotions that live around it and which I really understand. In this sense, I also welcome the fact that there has been a peak in the number of recovery reports in recent weeks. About 650 voluntary reports have been made. This is again significantly higher than we have seen in the past period. But let me also call on the sector to do so. It is the responsibility of the sector that the i&r is in order. Look at that system. See if your company's records match the data registered in the i&r. It is also the responsibility of every farmer to ensure that that is in order. Let this also be a wake-up call, I think Mrs Dik-Faber called it so that we should have no less than the highest alertness here to make sure that this is in order. This was in a generic sense my general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u98	We have already said on the day of the letter that we appreciate the fact that the Minister has informed the Chamber vigorously. I also think that's a nice way of doing things. I also think it is a good thing for the Minister to say that she may have underestimated the impact, but I think it is also important to look closely at what she has said. I've been reading that letter. She has carefully formulated everything. She referred to 'a signal of fraud' and 'the image of irregularities'. She didn't say anything: the whole sector is cheating. So I think it is also good to mention that, even if you choose your words carefully, you do not necessarily control how they are then explained. It happens. I'll ask the Minister to acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you for this interruption, I would almost like to say. It is true that words that you do not express so explicitly can be in a context that makes them bigger. I myself indicated that I underestimated that and that it was also a reason to say that I did not mean it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u100	Once again, that is a credit to the Minister, but I am asking this because I believe that the reaction of the sector organisations may have been somewhat disproportionate. That's what it's about: was it proportional or not? This sector has spoken very ugly words, while the Minister has carefully formulated and implemented the rules properly. Maybe she can't answer that, I can imagine that, but we can also take a little critical look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u101	I've been thinking a lot over the last few weeks. That's really true about what I've done, how I've done it and how the formulations have been. I've also thought about whether I should have done things differently. How did things happen? As I said, I also spoke to individual farmers. Those were sometimes very intense and I have to say that also very nice conversations. We were really looking together for exactly what was going on. I've always said, no matter what, I just want to keep looking everyone in the eye. That's what I have to do. That doesn't mean we're always in agreement, but I have to make sure I can explain what I'm doing. If things go the way I didn't mean them, I have to be able to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u103	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u104	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u105	I really think it's important to finish this. How others deal with them themselves, I find their own responsibility. Let me express the hope that, as a result of what has happened here, everyone will once again be talking to themselves about what has happened in the past period, how it has happened and how we can learn from it. I'm trying to reflect on what I'm doing. I can really say that I do that with my whole heart and soul, with all my intentions. I'm very proud to be Minister of Agriculture. That does not mean that we will always agree on what we are doing. That will certainly be the case with the Chamber, but I must be bold to reflect on it. I hope that goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u106	It is very good that the Minister says right here in her first sentences: if the data were to come back on the table, I would intervene again, and hard. She didn't say the last thing, but that's how I interpreted it. That's really good; fine. She refers to the i&r system and its importance, but my question to the Minister is whether she will continue to do so on all other aspects of agriculture that are wrong or seem to be wrong. Because not everything affects our export position, but with that it is no less important. It can also affect our nature and our environment, for example in the case of manure fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u107	We have had the debate on manure fraud many times, and we will continue to do so very often. Perhaps Mr Grashoff has also heard that there has been a raid on an intermediary this week, so it is not that we are on our hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u108	It's fine not to sit on your hands. However, the issue is that there may continue to be fog because neither the Minister's information position nor that of the Chamber is very adequate. We don't know the size, we don't know the size, and we keep hearing that we don't know the size. I think that the example of the i&r and how things turned out there should also lead us to think about a much better way of managing facts and figures about other things that are wrong, whether that is the country picking issue or the manure fraud or other matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u109	I have indicated that we are looking more closely at how we can make enforcement and monitoring more effective. I do this together with Mr Grapperhaus, and in this case also with the province of Brabant. We are actively working on this. We are really looking at what the situation is there. But I have also mentioned it to Mr Grashoff before: the problem with fraud is often that you do not know what you do not know. You're looking for something where you see things aren't going well. But what exactly is the size, you don't know. Only when we see it's not good, we act on it. This week's example shows that we are doing the same here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u110	I don't know if the minister is going to come back specifically in one of the blocks on multiple fraud. Then I'll hold off on my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u111	No, I'd do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u112	Okay. In the first letter from the Minister dated 23 January, we were informed that there are 2,000 companies with more than 10% multiples. The percentage is not 10% or 12% or 15%, but there are also really big outliers. In the last letters, I actually don't read about it anymore. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u113	As I just said, that was the reason. That's what started all this. We've been trying to put some kind of sophistication into it, which immediately focused on i&r. But that's still the reason. And we're not done with that either. I would also like to emphasise this here. A number of your colleagues have also asked more or less whether we can now put a line on it. That is my free interpretation, or whether conclusions can now be drawn from it. That's not true. We're still working on that investigation. The aspect of i&r refers to a part of the group that we first had in view. After we complete the entire section of the I&R administration, we will also continue research, leading to multiple fraud. We will also do this risk-oriented, partly on the basis of the administration and partly on the basis of company visits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u114	I understand. It is indeed important that the I&R system is in order, as this must be done under the Brussels Regulation. At the same time, it still gnaws at me. There are 20%, 30% or perhaps 40% multiples on a holding, while on average it is 3% to 5%. That really is a substantial difference. That is actually getting a little less attention, but I think that, if I analyse it properly, it would indicate knowingly and knowingly wrong action. I would like a further clarification from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u115	It's true we're not done with that yet. It is important that we look at the situations, what we have not yet seen. We have now seen a specific part that is more focused on i&r. But the cause, the number of multiples, still stands. Only, we're looking for data that would allow us to look at what's going on there at a very risk-oriented level. And we don't have all the commitment of the NVWA we would like to have on that point either. It is not because of the commitment of the NVWA, which has been very large in recent weeks. If we have to visit all those companies, it's very complicated. That is why we have also introduced a phasering, with first an administrative round. Then hopefully we'll end up in a second phase around mid-April, where we'll look very specifically at companies that didn't come out of the crosschecks, but we'll see statistically large outliers that we can't explain on the basis of the data. Part of that will therefore be the place where company visits will again take place. So it's not done yet. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u116	I had a question about that, too. I understand now that the number of 7,700 and the multiples were a cause. The Minister sometimes uses the occasion and refinement that took place with the crosschecks mixed up. There's actually been a second analysis. My question is as follows. Among those 7,700 companies there were also companies with 15% or more multiples. That could still be a clue that something isn't right. So now they're out of the crosscheck. Did those companies take a picture of the i&r system at the time you came by because of that number of 7,700?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u117	These are the more technical questions I'm going to take with me later. I'm sorry, but I want to do all that in a very secure manner. I have to come back to that in the cubes in order to be able to answer it in a very secure manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u118	That's what the Minister's gonna come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u119	Maybe the Minister will come back to the question I'm about to ask. It is in line with Mrs Lodder's questions. One of my questions was: in how many situations has there been concrete fraud with multiple registration? Of the 2,200 companies that have closed down, about 2,000 have now been unblocked. How many cases of fraud actually detected are at the moment involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u120	In order to determine whether it is actually fraud, you will also have to take into account its design. So it is not just a false registration that is the same fraud. I think that's the whole discussion we're having here. So you also need to know about the intentions, the motives. You really need to take some more steps to get there. In the letter of February, I gave more or less a factual list of what is about the financial gain that this had to do with it. Even that doesn't have to explain the fraud right away. That doesn't have to say it's fraud. We need to go through a fairly secure process. I cannot therefore draw any conclusions from that at this stage either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u121	The reason for this whole operation was suspicions of fraud in the registration of multiples. It seems reasonable, then, that there should be clear and clear numbers of animals and farms. That's the point. The Minister can't deliver it now, if I understand correctly. But they're gonna be there, aren't they? May I conclude that that is a promise from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u122	We send all the information we have to the Chamber every time. If we move forward in the process, I will inform the Chamber again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u123	I have a question along the lines of this. In the first letter she sent on 23 January, the Minister states what I will call the sample that 29 inspections have been carried out on companies with a percentage of multiples above 10%. At 23 of them, it doesn't seem to match. And then literally: "The suspicion of fraud has therefore been confirmed by these companies." That is what the Minister says: this is fraud. If she could confirm that on January 23rd, why is it so much more difficult after that? Or was this a premature sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u124	In this situation, we have also made company visits. That is a different situation from the administrative checks we have carried out. Whether it is actually legal fraud is, of course, another stage, in which you have to start to judge very closely what the situation was and what it was supposed to be, and that kind of aspect. The difference that makes that we could be a little sharper there is that we have actually been on the company, which is not the case around the administrative checks we have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u125	I understand that. So there has been an x-number of company visits as a result of what we will call multiple fraud. I don't know what that number is, but I'm sure there was. It seems to me that, according to the same system, real fraud can be detected in the case of an X number or not. I think that's a little what the Chamber is looking for. What's that magic number?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u126	I completely understand that question, because that is also the question I naturally have. When I see numbers, I want to know the motives behind those situations. The complicated thing about this situation is that I can't just see it. I wish I could see it, because then I could immediately distinguish between fraud and a stupid or unintended mistake. That's the whole exercise we're making. But I do insist that, even if something was a mistake, it is a very dangerous mistake. Even if an error is unintentional, when the i&r system is incorrect, it is not good. Then you really have a much bigger problem than just an administrative error. I'll run that search with you. Steps need to be taken to gain a better understanding of this. It's still going on. That is why I cannot yet draw any definitive conclusions in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u127	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u128	I would like to continue with the interruptions by Mrs Lodders and Mr Bishop. Has the Minister considered speeding up the clarity of this process perhaps with external assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u129	The refinement was already an attempt at speed. When the number of 7,700 was mentioned, we already knew that it was impossible to do it all with a company visit. That's why we've been looking for a different way to understand more quickly what's happening in that 7,700 group. That's why we've been wondering what the advantage was. You have an advantage if you do deliver milk in practice, while you are known as non-milk delivery. That is where the financial advantage lies, also within the framework of the phosphate reduction plan. That is one way of assessing whether there are irregularities. That's why we put the lists together to make sure it's true. Those are the speed and refinement we have already tried to apply to make sure that we could reduce that group quite quickly. So that was already an attempt. In addition, we were wondering if we could go any faster than we are doing now. Over the last few weeks, the effort was quite focused on the weather being able to unblock companies very quickly at the time they had provided their information. I have to say that a number of farmers have done so very quickly and I think that is good. If we need a little less capacity for this, we're going to use it again for the second phase. We have to make choices because the size of the group is just big.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u130	I understand the Minister's reaction very well, and I can follow it well, but I'm still trying to think along. With external help, it may be possible to achieve greater clarity in that process. There is no doubt that I have incredibly much respect for all the officials involved who work on weekends. It is absolutely not my preference to work on Sundays, but in this situation it has happened. I find that incredibly handsome and commendable, but perhaps with external help it can get a little more speed. I don't know if it's possible. I ask the Minister openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u131	There are not so many parties who can simply determine whether there are irregularities. The NVWA has the authority to do so. So that's got hooks and eyes on it. We're putting a lot of capacity into it right now. We need to make choices in relation to the rest of the supervision and enforcement. There's a lot going on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u132	I suggest that you answer the questions about the nature and extent of the irregularities first. I would suggest that you proceed with that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u133	Yes, I go on to the block of the nature and extent of the irregularities, because quite a few Members have asked questions about them. Mrs. Lodders asked if you could include practical knowledge to see how to interpret the signals, recognize them, etc. We have quite a few experts at the RVO and NVWA. People from the NVWA also just come to the companies and know what's going on. Those involved experts have all been deployed. With regard to the signals that administrative errors were involved, the following further points should be noted. I have already indicated that when false registrations are detected, this is already a reason for a blockade. For the fact that the i&r was not in line with the actual situation, the practical knowledge would not have made much difference. That's a reason to block a company. We have also indicated that we saw the first weekend that we have unjustly blocked a hundred companies and that we have also corrected that immediately. In the remaining of the 2,000 cases, however, there was an incorrect registration that had to be repaired. Mr Bishop asked me exactly what I based myself on in all these crosschecks and why I had no prior consultation with, for example, sector organisations or the COV on the causes. I have based myself on analyses of the data in i&r which indicated different percentages of the multiples. That is also why I subsequently made the company visits on 22 January last. The information that came out of it was reason to inform your Chamber on 23 January. At that time, there was no consultation with the other organisations. As a ministry, we are responsible for taking action when false registrations are found. The NVWA acted accordingly. Mr Bishop has also asked me what I am going to do to correct the picture of fraud. I just said what my intentions were. Where it was unintentional, I also indicated that it was. But I am well aware that we need to communicate with Brussels to ensure that there is a proper picture of the sector there. We are not just doing this because of this situation. Actually, I do it all the time. We are always in conversation with Brussels, also to tell what is happening here, what is the situation and so on. All the information you receive will also be given to Brussels. You may rest assured that I will inform Brussels of what we have seen and what we have seen. In the broad sense, it is good to point out that I am not the only one who produces correct images, but that this also applies to the sector. It can also indicate itself: this is what we are doing, this is what we are doing. That also sounds in Brussels. But the information you receive will also be given to Brussels. We are conducting fully continuous talks, I would almost like to say, also at this point. Mr Bishop asks in how many cases has it been demonstrated that the multiple calves actually come from a milk-producing heifer. For the unblocking of farms, farmers have provided additional information. In all cases where there is unblocking, corrections have been made by livestock farmers. We have no idea exactly how many multiples are related to this. This really is about the i&r and the mismatches that took place there. That's what we've been focusing on. Mr De Groot asks whether things would have been very different if I had reported on 23 January that there were some 60 farms suspected that the heifers were milk-producing. Wouldn't you have locked the whole sector? Could I have done it differently? That's actually kind of the question. Legally, I had no other option but to act like I did. Irregularities have been detected in over 2,000 companies. Under the EU regulation, these companies had to be blocked. I will come back very specifically to the legal questions that have been raised. I would like to add some nuance to the picture presented by Mr De Groot, namely that the whole sector has been closed down. Firstly, there have been irregularities in some 2,000 farms, while there are some 17,500 dairy farms and 32,000 cattle farms. Secondly, it is a blockade. This means that the primary process can no longer be introduced and disposed of, but that the primary process can continue. So it is not the case that the whole sector is locked. Let us all be a little careful in our terms if we want the imagery in this area to be correct. Mr De Groot says that some 5,600 companies are excluded from the selection after the crosschecks have been carried out. I reported this in my letter of 8 February. He says that this means that the companies that have fallen out there have their i&r in order. Unfortunately, the calculation is a little more complicated than this statement. The number of 7,700 companies was mentioned on the basis of the information I had on 23 January on the maximum number of companies where something might be wrong because of the above average high percentage of multiples. I also indicated at the time that there were no irregularities in all these companies and that we should therefore refine them. We did. Actually, the number of 7,700 is no longer so relevant. That was the direct cause. There was a need for refinement, and that is what we are working on right now. What is particularly relevant now is that the more than 2,000 companies where irregularities have been detected have put their registration in order or are still in the process of doing so. Furthermore, there are companies where there are suspicions. But these can't be hardened based on the crosschecks. So that's part of the follow-up investigation. I just indicated that I call that "phase two." We're going in soon. Mr De Groot also says that on 20 February there will be more clarity as to where the fraud is likely to be. He says: 50 farms around 5 to 10 LU are blocked or 10 farms where there are more than 300 blocked animals. He asks if this is the fraud. I get his search every time for where it is. I have just indicated that this may be too soon to conclude. You could say "but that's a little speculative, so I'm also trying to deal with it carefully now "that when the financial gain is higher, the risk of fraud is higher. But it doesn't have to be. We really need some more steps to really define this. The other way around, for example, an irregularity of 1 or 2 LU could also lead to a considerable advantage. This means that the number of people does not say very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u134	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. It is not just Mr Graus who has a cold. So I just can't answer the question right now. That's actually the short answer. The prosecution is also the one who ultimately decides whether there is fraud or not...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u135	... and therefore the background to the situation is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u136	If you need a short suspension, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u137	No, I'm just trying to keep going, Mr. Chairman. I think I need to talk through it. Or Mr. De Groot is going to save me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u138	In fact, I would like to suggest that you complete this section and then Mr De Groot will be the first to have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u139	I'm almost through the questions in this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u140	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u141	Mr De Groot has just asked in his interruption, and is likely to ask again whether a photograph of the administration of these situations has been taken. Fortunately, we keep a very good record of this administration. We can see exactly when the changes took place and when they did not. So we can also see what the situation was on a certain company on a certain date. Mr De Groot also asks me when I will then step away from the multiple approach. That is also a more concrete question. I already indicated that the higher percentages of multiples led to that data analysis and the crosschecks. The hit on it was the reason to see an irregularity, regardless of what exactly the percentage of the multiples involved was. We'll resume this investigation after we've done this refinement. Finally, in this block, Mr President. Mrs Dik-Faber asks how much time we need to be able to tell exactly when it is fraud and when we can complete this part of the investigation. The priority has recently been to unblock the companies that are still blocked. About 250 files are pending at NVWA. In part, the NVWA will also have to carry out a physical inspection in order to assess the situation on the spot. The stakes are aimed at dealing with that first. So I expect that we will be ready in mid-April and then there will be room for the follow-up research that I have just announced. So much for this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mr De Groot. No? Then you can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u143	Then I'm really going to go into the depths around the legal basis of the blockades.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u144	Tools are being provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u145	I'm being offered very sweet laurel rop, Mr. Chairman. But I'm just trying to keep up the good work. Mr Bishop has asked a number of rather specific questions about this and I am going to try to answer them quite specifically. He asks what insights or business blockades were really necessary, even in the case of the stillborn calf. Is there a national headline or European rules? European regulations require a farmer to report births and deaths. It includes dead births. Those are European rules. There is therefore no question of a national head. In the implementing regulations, the Netherlands has limited this to births and births from seven months onwards, because in these cases the cow will give milk. That's why we start reporting on those seven months. It is therefore important that the data on a milking cow are correctly contained in the i&r system. If the calf is born dead after six months, but the cow becomes milky afterwards, that is the reason to register the case in the i&r. Then you know what the situation is and whether it's a heifer or a milking cow. That's got to be right in the i&r. If that is not correctly reported, there must be a provision of Regulation No. 494/1998 a blockage. Mrs Lodder asked why a business blockade and not an individual blockade? European legislation requires that, in situations such as this, the movement of animals to and from the holding as a whole is limited. This means that the blockade must cover the whole company. In the case of a blockage of individual animals in European legislation, the regulation speaks of animals concerned. This is the case, for example, in Article 2 (1). But it doesn't say that here, so it's definitely focused on the whole company. Mr Geurts asked whether there could not be a differentiated approach for the business blockade. The situation is that a calf has not been reported or has not been correctly reported. There is Article 4 (2) of Regulation No. 494/1998, as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 494/1998. That Article shall apply if one or more births have not been reported or have been reported incorrectly. That provision is clear, and I have already said it to Mrs Lodders, because it says that the movement of animals to and from the holding must be restricted. The movement therefore covers all movements, including all animals. That's the rules. Article 2 of the Regulation, to which Mr Geurts refers, has a general scope: if there are animals that do not comply with the I&R rules. Article 4, second paragraph, is a special rule, specific to the failure or incorrect reporting of births. Special rules take precedence over general rules. Then there is the question of proportionality. This mandatory blockage is proportional, given the importance it serves: first put things in order, as long as births are not properly registered protect the chain and thus also the trading position of the sector, and the fact that the farmer can free his farm from the blockade by means of a correction. I would like to say that the farmer can report it correctly at any time himself. That's not a complicated operation. Over the past few weeks, we have seen that a number of farmers have taken a good look at their registration and can also report it to the RVO, which means that it is also processed. So again the call: make sure your own registration is in order, because this prevents you from being unclear and possibly annoying measures that result from it. I believe that I have answered the legal questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u146	I've tried to listen carefully to what the Minister says. In my words, Article 4 is above Article 2. But Article 4 doesn't talk about all animals. The Minister says that there is absolutely no exception: you simply have to read it in such a way that Article 4 applies to all animals. But I'm not getting that out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u147	I have indicated that Article 4 concerns all animals. Article 2, to which Mr Geurts refers, is of general application. Article 4 is special. It's legal as well to say that. Special rules take precedence over general rules. That is the order, and that is why Article 4 prevails in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u148	I follow that, let me put it very plastically, but Article 4 does not allow me to say that this applies to all animals. If Article 4 is above Article 2, then why does it apply to all animals, why not that distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u149	Let's see... Then I come back to the answer about all the animals and animals involved, which I have just given to Mrs Lodder. At the time it concerns individual animals, the regulation refers to "animals concerned." That is why this also applies to all animals. Then I come to the block of financial consequences for the sector. Mr Bisschop specifically asks about the costs of DNA research and whether they can be reimbursed by the government in the case of "the RVO itself has decoupled the notification between mother cow and calf, as he states. I have already indicated in the written reply, and I would like to do that again here, that the suggestion that the RVO would have changed independent data in the i&r, after which the farmers would have to put it right, is simply not true. The identification codes of the multiple dams were only removed after the analysis showed that there were heifers on the holding with no offspring registered in i&r. Whether that is right or not, of course, it is up to the farmer to prove it. But that is why I always say that there is a flag: this animal is registered differently in two systems, in one as a milking agent, in the other as a heifer. This has been done in all cases, so the RVO did not go shopping independently in the system to change things there. An entrepreneur is himself responsible for a correction registration in the i&r. If DNA research is needed to put his registration in order in the i&r, that is also his own responsibility. This is independent of the fact that this has now emerged so widely; in all cases it has. So even if it is recorded again in six months or two years' time, the farmer is responsible for good registration. He will have to prove that when something turns out to be wrong. The fact that it is a farmer's responsibility is no reason for the government to bear that kind of cost. That would also dupe those who have kept up with all that. So, again, this really is the farmer's own responsibility. I would also like to point out that DNA testing is not necessary in all cases. We have seen that many companies have been able to make the registrations more accurate in a different way and to support that. The SGP also asks whether I do not want to apply a discount in case of problems with reporting death births and in case of miscommunication between management systems. The implementation of management systems is, of course, also the responsibility of the farmer himself. There farmers themselves have choices in which they apply. I understand that there are management systems that try to make smart connections, but then it still seems to me that you are always checking yourself that things have gone well. If you realize how important the i&r is, as a farmer you will also have to periodically check whether it is all in good shape. So when exchanging data, it is always good to look at it again when there are things in it. I think that this situation has also given rise to the need to do so again. I have also read the stories, perhaps that Mr Bishop hinted that there were technical problems which did not result in a temporary exchange of data. We do not know when that would have happened. We have no indication of that. We have looked at it, but we have not seen that there have been situations where it would not be possible because of a malfunction or something like that. So I don't recognize that image. Let's see. Mr Bishop says that the discount on supplements in the event of death should be avoided. The reduction in CAP income aid depends on whether there has been intent or negligence. Different maximum and minimum discount rates apply. The exact level of the reduction to be imposed shall then be determined according to the severity, extent, duration and frequency of the infringement. So there's already some kind of stairwell in there. In the case of minor cases of negligence, a warning may be sufficient. The RVO will involve this in the decision on whether or not to apply this discount. It always takes a case-by-case balance, so it is not possible to make generic statements about it. This was the block about the financial questions. I'm going back to the point about improving the i&r. I think it is very important that we look forward again and look at what we can do to ensure that these kinds of situations can no longer be avoided. That is what I have heard most Members of the Chamber say. One of the things we're looking at is, of course, the improvement of the i&r. Do we have to tighten up there to make sure things are going well? Mrs Dik-Faber said the same thing. She said, "Let's look to the future and what it takes. In my letter of 8 February last, I announced that I would consult with the sector on improvements to the I&R system. We have already started a joint working group on business and government. This has led to the identification of 15 improvement proposals at the moment. These improvement proposals range from adapting government regulations to agreements and initiatives that the sector itself is once again facing. The Working Group will work out the proposals in the near future and the NVWA will assess them on the basis of persistence, feasibility and sensitivity to fraud. I think it is of the utmost importance now that we do another check on that. If I have more insight into this, I will quickly inform you of the results and intentions that have emerged. Mrs Lodders has asked: can you not see if some kind of guidance group, I would just call it that; I think the names you give them are always so complicated, or a number of farmers who work with them in practice, can take a look at this? Can't you see if they can let go of their insights? I'll do that. I will ask a group of farmers how they look at it and, above all, how it works in practice. I think that's the most important thing to do. I can therefore undertake to do so. By the way, the latter... I had an administrative meeting with the sector yesterday. We have already said that the working party is working. I shall now say that a look on the part of the farmers who have to work with it is getting over it. Mrs Dik-Faber says that the sector itself is talking about a cultural change. She says: I think it is also a good thing that the glove is picked up there. She's asking if I agree. I think I just mentioned that in my introduction, but where I have to do it again, I will do it again. I think it's good we're gonna do that. I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. I am also pleased that the sector itself has addressed this. We shouldn't say "they're small mistakes." Small mistakes can have very big consequences. Small mistakes have had major consequences. We can say that after this situation. Bigger mistakes have also been made. We have yet to make that distinction. I think it is very good that the sector also picks up this glove itself. I'll keep talking to them about that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mrs. Lodders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u151	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment on the I&R system. I think it's very important that we look to the future. I do have a question for the Minister. I don't know if she can go into that. Does the Minister share the VVD's view that the i&r system is primarily intended to do the identification and registration in a good way, and that it should not be a Christmas tree we use for all kinds of other things we want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u152	I think it is precisely in the interest of the i&r that we keep it as pure as possible. That sounds good to me. In recent years, we've had the phosphate reduction plan. We now have the phosphate rights system, so that link is no longer attached. It seems very good to me to use the i&r above all as it is intended, namely for proper registration. That is of the utmost importance, I share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u154	Then there are the other questions, Mr President. Mr De Groot asks when I am going to work. I can reassure Mr De Groot: the Ministry is working very hard. We have some complicated files. Mr De Groot mentioned them, but at the same time many people are also very enthusiastic about the agreements we made in the coalition agreement. I have already indicated in the budget what the timetables are about and when the Chamber can expect certain things. We're working very hard on that. I share the feeling with Mr De Groot that we should indeed do beautiful things and look forward. We must ensure that the measures we have agreed and with which I believe we can make real progress are implemented quickly. Mr De Groot also asked me, in response to Mr Moorlag's question, whether I could give a greater look at what we are doing. I'm working on a broader vision around the entire LNV section. With that vision, we are working hard and we are trying to get that vision done before the summer. In that context, Mr Moorlag asks me whether I believe there should be a change in the system and whether I share the view that this cannot be done. Do I agree that economics and ecology should be balanced? I have been Minister for four and a half months now and I have seen a lot of beautiful things happening in the sector. There are a lot of farmers who shape a business from their own point of view and their own views. I went to a company in Schipluiden yesterday. It was Maasland, I must be equally correct. That farmer has a very own vision of organic farmers. I think it is very nice to see how farmers, each from their own point of view, look at what they think is good business and what comes into view. I also have, of course, discussions about whether legislation and regulation will help in this or whether they will get in the way. How should we proceed with agriculture? That is the kind of discussion I have with many farmers and also with the representatives of those farmers. I have already indicated at the time that I was Minister that it is precisely my ambition to balance ecology and the economy. In many of the discussions we are having on this subject, such as last week's on the PAS, this is also being discussed. I have just indicated that we are working on a vision of agriculture and nature. I think it is right that, if we have that vision, we should discuss the content of it with the Chamber. I assume you're going to want that too, no doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u155	I do have a question. To what extent does the Minister also involve stakeholders in the drafting of this vision? I can see in itself that very good things are happening in the agricultural sector. There's a lot of innovation going on. At the same time, you must also note that there is a lot of tension on it. Everyone is dissatisfied: farmers, because of regulatory pressure and production pressure, but also nature and environmental organisations. Do you include those different stakeholders, the whole chain, in drawing up that vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u156	The answer is yes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question from Mr Graus. He has asked if I am willing to do something about the Oostvaardersplassen before I go on with the i&r, also with regard to the deployment of the NVWA. He says it's gonna get tight in terms of stakes. We have already had discussions on the Oostvaardersplassen, in particular on the question of where the responsibility lies. It's in the county now. I have heard that there will soon be a report from the Van Geel Committee, which has looked at the Oostvaardersplassen. I think the others heard the same thing. I do not know what the content of this report is, but I can imagine that there will be a discussion about it at the time it is in place. Let me put it this way: I would rather not have had the commitment of the NVWA on this, but it is a fact that I had to act. Then I'll have to bet the NVWA on this, too. I am also very pleased that they have done so with a great deal of effort. So that's the situation. The discussion about the Oostvaardersplassen will not stop, I think, but it will be held where it belongs, namely in the states of the province of Flevoland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u157	I think there was a lot of talk about this last week, Mr. Graus. So you may make a brief comment, but we are sticking to today's subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u158	Two things. First of all, the NVWA. That is why I asked the Minister if there was anything we could do as a Chamber. If there is more money to the NVWA for more manpower, quality and quantity, then I think that we as a Chamber should also get together. This question is separate from the Oostvaardersplassen. We have had a debate on the Oostvaardersplassen. I understand that went to Flevoland Province. We in the Chamber have supported that, too. But I've seen the municipality pay SMEs andzzp'ers late. At that time, the Minister for Economic Affairs, a predecessor, took action from the government at some point. That is why I would like to ask now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u159	You're gonna talk about it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u160	No, I just want to ask the Minister to continue to exert top-down pressure, because she is the shepherd of all animals. We shouldn't starve animals to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u161	You've got it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u162	So the pressure of the minister is really essential. I'm gonna keep pushing, too, and I hope that's what several MPs are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u164	It's a great honor to say I'm the shepherd of all animals. I believe there is another shepherd, but that aside. I hear what Mr Graus says about the NVWA. I also like that he sees the importance of the NVWA, because they do a lot of good work. But we also have many other challenges around the NVWA, not least the whole Brexit, which is also coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u165	Thank you. Then I actually wanted to go to the second term, although Mr Grashoff has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u166	It has come to pass in the Minister's story, but it remains somewhat unsatisfactory to me: the answer to the question of the statistical impossibility surrounding the multiples. What exactly is the Minister still investigating, and when will we hear from him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u167	The cause was different from where we came out now. So I understand that sometimes there can be confusion. I am not saying that this is the case with Mr Grashoff, but the multiples have been the cause. We came up with a sophistication by checking the i&r: is a cow milking, yes or no? Around the multiples we go into the new phase to see what the risks we want to investigate are. This will be in the second phase, in mid-April. So around 100 companies will be looked at to see what the exact situation is there, because we could not extract it from the data from the i&r. This is because, for example, certain milk lists were not there, while at the same time we see that there is a statistically higher result. So that's where we want to look specifically at what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u168	Yes, Mr President, that is the question of exactly what you see in companies. My question is actually of a slightly different, and perhaps a little more theoretical, nature. How can it be that the Minister's databases reveal a statistical impossibility which cannot then be explained? In one way or another, we must have a conclusive answer to that, now or in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u169	That was exactly the reason to start all this. I saw that statistical outlier that ran in a couple of months. I sent it to the room. It wasn't even one period, but it was a longer statistical deviation. We've just gone to find out exactly what's behind that. That's what we're doing right now. You can express all kinds of suspicions that it is not properly registered in certain animals. I explained that in an earlier debate with the Chamber. If a given calf is attributed to a cow other than that to which it belongs, it has a multiple. That is precisely why we started this investigation. Is it true how we see what the milk-producing animals are and what the heifers are? If a heifer is milking, she must have thrown a calf somewhere. That could be dead, but it could still be alive. If it's alive, it could be attributed to another cow. That's why we started this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u170	I want to move on to the second term. I would like to thank the Minister for her second-term reply. Is the order the same? Yes, we'll start with Mrs. Lodders, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Many thanks to the Minister for answering the questions. I think it is a good thing that the Minister has reflected in recent weeks and in particular on the issues addressed in this debate: communication and the way in which action has been taken. I think it has been enlightening on the one hand, but at the same time I note that the unrest and anger have not just left the people. I understand that, too. Especially in the case of the companies where no mistake has been made, at most an administrative imperfection. We all know how it can arise. I would like to address one point that concerns me a great deal. That's the group of multiples I'm talking about 20, 30 or more percent multiples on farms where no milk lists are kept and so the crosscheck couldn't take place. My feeling is that's where we're talking fraud. I hope my fear does not come true, but I fear we will see something of it again. I do not think that the image of fraud should be created again, because it belongs to the 7,700 in the first instance. I'd like to address that concern. Thank you for the Minister's commitment. I'm gonna close with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u172	Mr Geurts, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u173	Mr. Chairman. From the side of the CDA Group, many thanks for the words of the Minister at the introduction, the reflection on her actions. I'm not going to sum them up. In my view, at any rate, the important thing is that it does not underestimate at all the unrest that has caused this matter to livestock farmers. Mr. Chairman. I will come back to that regulation. It's not gonna let go of me. The statement, the explanatory memorandum, of that Regulation states that if more than 20% of the animals on a given holding are not fully complied with the identification and registration requirements laid down in the Regulation, the measures should be applied for all animals present on the holding; 20% versus all animals. Article 4 does not speak of "all," but Article 2 speaks of "all"; 4 refers to 2. It keeps me busy for a while. Perhaps the Minister could explain this to me again with the pleasure of a stuffed cake, to use the words of Mr Graus. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to copy the words of the minister she used in a letter of inquiry as closing words. The first four words are mine: let us remain committed. And to that I add her words: for hard-working farmers and farmers who earn their living in an honest and responsible manner. They take care of our food. Those are my words again, and I am proud of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u174	Thank you. Mr Moorlag, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u175	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I think this has been a good debate. There was a hint that the minister acted in her operation in a way that could not bear the approval of part of the Chamber. That's become clear. The Minister has also stated that she still supports the way in which action has been taken. You can talk about communication, but I still think that's secondary. It's about keeping the i&r system intact. You can go looking for a long time: who's stupid now and who's been wrong now? It doesn't matter on balance. Those who are really wrong must, of course, be punished, but those who are stupid must also learn lessons from this, simply because there is a great social interest in keeping this system intact. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u176	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u177	Mr. Chairman. The Minister explained that she acted as she had to, and that is part of the choice made about the organisation of Dutch agriculture. I am also glad that she has acknowledged that it is a bit annoying that the NVWA had to put the capacity on this, while we also need it for other things. The Party for Animals therefore makes a proposal. The Minister is coming up with some work to be done. She comes up with a vision of nature and agriculture. So we are going to talk to her about the future of agriculture. I would ask her to include the following point: the length of the production chains. Former Secretary of State Dijksma mentioned earlier: yes, that is fragile, also in relation to food waste. Not much has happened to that, however. I have a motion asking the Minister to take it into account in the vision she is going to develop. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that long production chains involve a high level of administrative burdens and controls, are vulnerable and many questions from enforcement authorities, including NVWA;]] [[calls on the government to focus on shorter production chains in agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Graus and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u178	Thank you. Again, take it with you in the vision. You don't have to do that tomorrow. The call is to take it into account in the vision that the minister is going to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u179	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u180	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Even after answering the many questions and responding to the comments, my group remains convinced that the Minister is at the heart of the issue of irregularities and possible fraud in the I&R system. As far as we are concerned, the issue of multiples, that unexplained story, remains the most 'puzzling'. In that sense, I agree with Mrs Lodder's words in this case: things might come to light. It is incredibly important that we hear this in a balanced but not less clear and clear way. Making full use of all aspects of the fight against fraud is the appeal I am making here from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Once again, I would like to mention my concerns about manure fraud. I see the interventions and I see that the Minister does things there too, but I have no idea whether this is the tip of the iceberg or a drop on a glowing plate or whether we are trying to eradicate this form of fraud. There are too many signals about nitrogen in the air, nitrogen nitrate in surface and groundwater and overutilisation of placement space. I would once again like to convey to the Minister my grave concern. I am not going to link that to motions or anything like that, but I do not want to see that we have to go back to the point that decades of manure fraud have actually gone on for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u181	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u182	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has dealt with this crisis well and is still working on it. She's been fair about communicating on this approach. Compliments for that. The D66 group also has questions about the transition from the initial multiple analysis to so-called crosschecks. Looks like there's been a fresh start. If this cross-check group, as the Minister has written, did not include the percentages above 10% multiples, it could well be that there are still a lot of cases that could have been seen with the original approach. So it's still a bit of a weird transition, but the Minister can come back to that later. That was actually the only question mark that lingered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u183	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u184	Thank you, Madam President. I'll hear about the better income model for farmers, gardeners and fishermen at the expense of the powerful retailers. I'd like to be kept informed of that. Not our farmers but those powerful retailers take the big money, because we put our farmers under a certain pressure on animal welfare. I'm in on that, too, but that's why these people have to make more money. The knife cuts both ways. The government has to do something about it and we have done something about it as a Chamber. The farmers will thank us. I also co-signed two motions from our first reformed bishop, Roelof I of the SGP men's brothers. I have also co-signed the motion of the Party for Animals for shorter chains and stool from NVWA. I don't have any motions of my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u185	Thank you. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u186	A blessed day, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u187	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u188	Mr President, thank you very much. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I also appreciate the reflection on the effects of the performance. There are still a few points left. I tried to get it up through an interruption, but I didn't quite manage to do that. The reason for the measure to block companies was the suspicion of fraud involving multiple calves. A logical question then is: how many of the now unblocked farms have they actually detected as multi-calves? Then I am not talking about intent or mistake or not, that is irrelevant. I just want to know how many cases this has been established. That is independent of, indeed, the point of identification and registration. They just need to be in order. Clear. The second point I would like to address is the issue of EU rules on still-born calves. I appreciate the Minister's explanation, but I have looked at how that regulation was drawn up and how the definitions were formulated; that was in 1998. In 2006, our scheme was extended to include the requirement to register still-born calves, with the explanatory statement saying that it is a Dutch head of the EU directive. I therefore believe that we continue to disagree on this point. Mr President, I am tabling two motions, if you will allow me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reimburse the costs of DNA analyses if the results show that multiple calves were properly recorded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u189	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to apply a discount on payment entitlements in cases of errors in reporting death births, in cases of errors due to miscommunication between management systems and in cases of unjustified decoupling of multiple calves and dams by the National Entrepreneurial Agency of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u190	No. I was just in the name of the motion signatories twice "bishop Graus." I find it an honor to be called by one of the men's brothers bishops "Bishop Graus" "but I am only a simple....
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u191	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u192	....................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u193	That modesty graces you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u194	I was so honorably called "the first reformed bishop" "Roelof I," that I thought: then I will also give Mr Graus all the credit that is due to him. So, "bishop Graus"!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u195	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You cannot judge people or companies on the basis of a statistical deviation. Then you will eventually have to have people, in this case of the NVWA, on the premises who control things there. I think that is one of the problems in the substance of the matter. It began with a deviation from the number of multiples. If I have heard the Minister correctly, there is still a question mark over that. What's the cause of that? Is there still a follow-up? I understand that there will be a second phase in April, which will have to be more conclusive. We'd like to hear the results of that. Mr. Chairman. I've asked a series of questions about sanctions. What sanctions have been issued so far? Those questions haven't really been answered. I can imagine the Minister saying: we're in the middle of it, we're still sending teams from the NVWA to locations, so I can't give that answer right now. I'd like to have that reckoning eventually. I therefore ask for a commitment to get it somewhere at the end of this process, as far as you can speak of an end. What's the bill? Finally, I have a specific question, to which I would like an answer now. In its letter of 23 January, the Minister states that she is in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office on the most effective route. I'd like to get some explanation anyway. What came out of that meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u197	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I think the Minister can answer right away. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Members for looking for answers on this issue. I think it's nice that we could have done this with each other. A few questions have been asked and a few motions tabled. Shall I do the questions first, Mr. Chairman? Mrs Lodders asked if the high percentage of multiples is part of the follow-up study. Yeah, that's part of that. That is also part of the risk-oriented research that we are going to do in the second phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u199	A brief question, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u200	I'd especially like to point it out. This category was initially already among the 7,700 companies. That was actually my call, too. We know that. It is important that it becomes clear, but let us also communicate it in a good way, so that there is not another diffuse image.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u201	Clear. Mr De Groot asked for the transition from multiple analysis to crosschecks. Some of you have also asked for a moment what exactly is going on here. Will I return to that in writing for the sake of completeness, so that we can just explain it nicely?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u202	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u203	By the way, can I include that in another regular letter I am sending on this issue? That was also a question from Mr Bishop. He asked how you got from multiples to this situation. I think it would be a good idea for us to explain that in a letter. We can use that to report it. Mr Futselaar asked for an insight into the sanctions. He also asks which have already been distributed and if I can promise to do this. So far, I've shared all the information I had. I wasn't going to change anything about that. It is, however, too early to give a real picture of this. I will, of course, inform the Chamber. Mr Bishop asked how many of the unblocked companies actually identified the number of multiples. For the unblocking of farms, farmers have provided additional information. For all these cases, corrections have been made to the i&r system for the unblocking of companies. In how many cases that involved multiples of milking heifers and what that clutch was like, I can't say yet. I haven't quite figured out what's going on right now. So I'll come back later on to the transition from multiples to crosschecks. Mr Bishop and Mr Geurts were still puzzled about the legal basis for European legislation. Let us indeed eat a stuffed cake and have a cup of coffee. Maybe I'll bring a lawyer with me who can tell you this one more time. I just outlined how the situation was built up in the code of conduct. The special provision applies to the general provision. Then I have a few more motions. Firstly, I should like to refer to Mrs Ouwehand's motion on item No. 276. It calls for the vision to focus on shorter production chains in agriculture. I am very grateful that Mrs Ouwehand assigns me so much power. This is also a market issue. I can't totally influence how many links there are in a production chain. So she gives me a great deal of power in that regard to realize this. The motion as it is now, I must therefore advise against it. Of course, we are also looking in this view at, for example, the position of farmers in the chain and that kind of aspect. We have also indicated that we are looking at how we can improve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u204	A brief comment, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u205	I'm gonna take a quick look at the co-hosts. If I change the operative part of the motion so that I ask the Minister, in her view on agriculture, to explore the possibilities of shortening production chains, would that be something the Minister can live with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u206	Yeah, we can always explore possibilities, but I'm not guaranteeing the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u207	I got that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u208	If I may read the motion in such a way that we are going to look in broad terms at aspects of the position of farmers in the chain and so on, then that is fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u209	Fine. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u210	Please continue with the motion in part No. 277 by Mr Bishop and Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u211	I have indicated that I am reading the motion widely, that I want to improve the position of the farmers in the chain, that we are already looking at it and that we are also taking it into account in the vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u212	I think it is best if I actually translate the text. Then it becomes: "In its view on agriculture, the government asks to look at the possibilities of reducing production chains." That the Minister himself is already looking at the position of the farmers in the chain, I knew. That's what's in it anyway. This specific request is: take a look at the possible shortening and the possibilities for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u213	Yeah, but in that respect, I just indicated that I can't. I'm not going over the length of the chains. That's the market. I am trying to meet Mrs Ouwehand at a point where I can do something for the farmers' position. Because that's what I think it's about. At least that's how I read the motion. Mrs Ouwehand would like the position of farmers to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u214	We're not going to have a whole debate about the motion right now. You can change the motion as the Minister wishes, or else you can just put it to the vote as you have put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u215	It's my job to explore the possibilities. I can totally live with what the Minister just said, namely that she cannot give any guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u216	I have spoken about exploring the possibilities of improving the position of farmers in the chain. That's been my explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u217	I really suggest moving on to the next motion, because we are not going on endlessly about motions. I think it's clear and we've switched enough. Are you going to hold the motion or change it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u218	I am changing the text of the motion in order to make it clear what we mean. Maybe the minister can see her in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u219	Please continue with the motion in part No. 277.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u220	That is Mr Bishop's motion. He's asking for the costs of DNA analysis to be reimbursed. I have just stated in my reply that there were incorrect registrations in all blocked companies and that they have now been restored. Also, almost the entire group is unblocked. In some cases, DNA testing was necessary. That is the responsibility of the entrepreneur himself. Once again, it is not the case that the RVO has adapted its own registrations, which might be the suggestion. In that light, I must discourage this motion. In his motion, Mr Bishop asked for item No. Article 278 does not apply to payment entitlements where there are errors in reporting death births. I have already indicated that there are no unjustified disconnects. I have also indicated that the farmer himself is responsible for proper registration in the i&r system and for the system used to pass it on. I have also indicated that technical defects are not known to us in the systems. So I'm also deceiving this motion. Mr President, I think those were my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u221	Then I would like to thank you for your response and the assessment of the motions. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u222	We will vote on the motions tabled next week. I shall suspend the sitting until 2:45 p.m. and then we shall begin with the order of business.
