ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u1	I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security for advising the Chamber on this subject. Many thanks for the supplementary questions put by my fellow Members. The Chamber is somewhat less filled than in the first term, but I would like to say a few things in this second term in conclusion. There was, of course, a great deal of substance for debate on this subject. We have seen that, but I will be absolutely brief and not go into all those things anymore. I could say a lot about all the framing and claiming that has been mentioned, about the bike or the scooter of the head of state and about Mandela and Erdogan, but I think it is better not to. I will give the opinions on the amendments at the end. I shall now look at some of the questions that have been asked. I do so in order of the list of speakers, but I would point out that a number of points come only at the end of the amendments. Mr Koopmans of the VVD has his amendment to item No. 11 withdrawn. Thank you again for the suggestions he has made through this amendment. I have accepted that amendment in substance through the second letter of amendment. That amendment has been tabled as far as I am concerned. I shall return to the other amendment at the end. Mr Van Raak wholeheartedly supports this. I am very pleased with that; thank you for that. He found a number of points a little complicated. Yes, of course, this also has to do with the way in which a number of considerations have been made. By the way, there have been considerations that we ourselves thought about at the beginning: what are you doing with this group and what are you doing with that group? In the end, we have dropped the field and the balance of forces in the way it has gone. His specific question was: what should I vote now? I would say: vote in favour and do so because at least we have ensured that representatives of the people are fully equal to the people. They are therefore subject to a maximum sentence of three months and to a complaint. That is the same as for all other Dutch people, just on the basis of Article 266. I think that answers his question. Mr Van der Staaij has personally apologized to me for his absence here. He was talking about Schopenhauer and the retorica. I'd almost like to say I don't know anything. So I have not made use of this either; at least not consciously. If I have done so by mistake, Mr Van der Staaij will see that he does so himself occasionally in a very subtle way. It's part of the job. He says that there is a contradiction as far as he is concerned, because I want to delete separate Articles 111 to 113 in order to protect the King from insult, but then bring the King into the category of extra protection. He was wondering if that wouldn't contradict each other. I would like to say the following, in addition to what I have already said. The difference in principle lies in the fact that there are three separate articles in the Penal Code which, as far as I am concerned, will no longer be there which give the King a separate very high level of protection due to a severe penalty. All I'm doing right now is I just deleted it. That is at the heart of this proposal. Then, at the request of the Chamber, I placed the King in an existing category. To continue to speak in correct terms, I add him as a servant of the public cause. At that point, we have never really been in our choice. It is therefore absolutely not the case that there is any way that we would be able to shape this bill in this way through the back door. I've just listened carefully to the Chamber. That has allowed the balance sheet, which was already very fragile, to go to the other side again on a detail of this bill. Mr Van Dam describes himself as "a proud old-fashioned man." I'm glad he gives himself that predicate with pride, because he thought I might offend him a little with the term "old-fashioned," but he himself sees that term as a great compliment. As far as I'm concerned, old-fashioned is just old-fashioned. That's all they said. I just outlined that there's another way to look at things. That is the more modern liberal approach, which I have also outlined in my contribution. In this respect, these are simply two different approaches and views, which have also led to the difference in principle, particularly in that part of the law. He said to me: you did not explain European case law. I have said a few words about this in my speech, but I would like to repeat to him that the Article 111 we are talking about is also limited by European case law. So that's just the issue and that's what I've appointed. That is why I would like to ask him: why, in particular, would you like to maintain an article that is already clear that it is so limited by European case law? Anyway, that's Mr Van Dam's choice. As far as I am concerned, I have certainly outlined the context of European case law. He then again expressed shame at the fact that the public prosecutor had not been consulted. I believe that we should stop talking about this, also because Mr Van Dam has said that he will accept... I think he will then join a large majority of the Chamber who felt that this bill was ready for plenary consideration. It took place today. In procedural terms, the entire Chamber has said that the opinion of the D.A. is not necessary. Then there is Mr Van Dam's other point: the public aid workers in private service. Mr Van Dam said: I probably misunderstood, but because I misunderstood, Mr Verhoeven did something with it. I think that a number of times in this debate has shown that the outcome is good and that we should stop talking about the subject all the time. We have achieved an end result which means that the position of public aid workers in private service has not been changed by this bill. Furthermore, I agree with what the Minister of Justice and Security said about this, namely that the problems with private service public service workers, which are indeed there, will be solved through Article 266. So that is already happening, as the Minister has said. Finally, Mr Van Dam referred to me as a consistent man. So he's a proud old-fashioned man himself, and I'm a consistent man. I think we can both live with that and in future we will cross swords again on other subjects. In any case, I would like to thank him very much for his sharp approach to this subject, which also showed that he has a great passion for this subject. That, unlike Mrs Buitenweg, who said that this issue would not be in her top five. That makes sense, because there are so many important issues and if we were to confine ourselves to the top five subjects in politics, we would not be doing our job properly. You have to deal with all the issues that are important, all the issues that matter, and certainly the freedom of expression, of course, you have to deal with. Fortunately, she later said that this is indeed an important issue. She also wondered whether politicians were or are not extra protected. As I said to Mr Van Raak: that is not the case, they are not extra protected according to our proposal. Then there is Mr Groothuizen of the D66 Group. He also mentioned the framing of bicycles and aid workers. I think his main point was that the solution now is that if you make a difference in the protection of certain officials, there must be a major interest. That's exactly a nice way to distinguish between four months and five years. We have said that you must provide additional protection for certain officials in the category of aid workers who are exposed to insult. That's a hell of a reason to do that. We have added the King in that existing category. That's also proportional. What is not proportional is five years in prison and disappointment from the right to vote if you insult the King. That is exactly why we want to delete those three articles. In my view, heavy and proportionate are exactly what we want to preserve and what we want to delete. So thank you also to Mr Grothuizen for this point of view. Mr Markuszower has tabled an amendment. This brings me to the amendments, I think, Mr President. He has tabled an amendment to equate judges with politicians. That is the amendment to item No. 14, if I say so. Mr. Chairman. In my view, then, I now have to give an opinion on these amendments. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u3	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u4	Then I guess I have the choice between taking over and dissuading, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u6	I would then like to advise against Mr Markuszower's amendment. This is no longer in line with the amended legislative proposal and it would therefore like to place judges in a separate position. I do not share his opinion on this, because judges do perform a public function, but they should not interfere in the public debate. They speak by way of a judgment and, in order to speak to a well-known judge, we must do so. I would therefore advise against his amendment. I sincerely hope that the PVV will still consider its support for the proposal, but I will ask it bilaterally. There was also the amendment by Mr Van Dam, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij to item No. 17. Well, you could actually describe that as "not yet destructive." In other words: it really gets a very big piece out of this proposal. It's actually like eating a fruit basket completely empty, then giving back the basket and saying: look, here's a basket. And that's when you wanted a fruit basket. I therefore also advise against this amendment. Finally, of course, Mr Koopmans' points. I would like to summarize it, as well as his amendment. He has tabled an amended amendment together with Mrs Kuik. Moreover, I sincerely regret that there is no longer a representative of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u7	There are not several MPs now, because they have to be somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u8	That is fine, but I would have liked it if I could have given the Labour Party what I consider important on this point. That might still have had some influence. I'm sure they'll look back on this, otherwise you might be able to pass it along, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u9	They can read the stenogram, can't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u10	Yes. They do two things in that amendment. Actually, they throw two things together. First of all, the maintenance of the criminalisation of public authority, public authority or public institution through Article 267. I'll get to that in a minute. In addition, they are actually throwing all officials back into the category of four months, and they still want to be prosecuted of their own motion, which means that there is no need for a complaint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u11	Look who's coming in!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u12	That's very nice to hear, and especially to see. I would like to make a comment in a moment, particularly for her ears. So I'm really glad she's here. I always am, but now in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u13	For the Acts: it is Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u14	Yeah, from the Labour Party. Why don't you put that in the Acts? Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Koopmans did not fully understand the exception I made for drivers, so he indicated. But this exception has already been formulated in exactly the same way in the new Civil Service Act, which is expected to enter into force in 2020, but has already been accepted by the Second and First Chambers. This wording is therefore in line with the concept of "administrative body" which is central to administrative law. You should think of ministers, mayors and directors of Zbo's. But because there are also civil servants who are administrative bodies, they are excluded. You should think about tax inspectors, for example. They must therefore be treated at the same level as other officials. This is to clarify this point. In my view, it is not as unclear as Mr Koopmans wanted it to be, but hopefully that will be resolved now. Then there is the other point: public authority, a public body or a public institution. After everything I said about this at the end of my speech in the first term, it will be clear that I really do not want to recommend the amendment tabled by VVD and PvdA on leaving the current Article 267 as it does in fact. As I said, the term "official" in the Code of Criminal Law covers many different types of posts. That is the first part of the amendment. Many of us will not be aware that, as representatives of the people, they are aligned with what citizens regard as civil servants. The same applies to ministers and other directors. This leads to confusion and the legislative proposal clarifies this point: a system that is more focused on the different positions of officials, directors and representatives of the people. This is not, therefore, so much more complicated, but more clear definition of categories that should also be dealt with differently. But especially the second part is really a thorn in my eye, so to speak. The VVD and the PvdA want to maintain the criminalisation of the insult of public authority. That surprises me greatly. Anyone who has any sense of balance between freedom of expression and criminal expression, and who sometimes looks across the border at countries where that balance is missing, must understand that such an unclear criminalisation in a democratic rule of law is absolutely unnecessary and puts a bad brake on being able to criticise the government, and thus also a bad brake on freedom of expression. I would really like to take a step forward on this point and I hope to be able to get the VVD and the PvdA on my side. I would add that the offence of insulting public institutions and public authority does not comply with the standards laid down in Article 10 (2) of the ECHR. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. The Human Rights Committee says in the General comment on freedom of expression: "States parties should not prohibit criticism of institutions, such as the army or the administration." If the Netherlands does, as proposed by the Labour Party and the VVD, then the Netherlands is in breach of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The case law of the European Court of Justice shows that criminal sanctions should be applied with great caution. It is necessary to examine whether there are other measures, such as civil measures, and whether they do not provide adequate protection. I would therefore also advise against this amendment. I do not want to give the impression that I do not appreciate the amendments tabled by my colleagues, because I have already done so in part by incorporating other amendments into the legislative text. But I would advise against these three. In doing so, I will also end my second-term reply to the Chamber. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u15	And the final term, too, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u16	It says enough that you hope so, Mr. Chairman. But I'm not going to pass a value judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thanks to Mr Verhoeven for the answer. There's still a crucial distinction, though, which you just crossed a little too quickly. There's a difference between criticism and criminal insult. We have to go to everyone, whether they agree with us or be very clear with someone else: criticism is essential in Dutch society. That is what we need to promote. A free discussion is fantastic, but criminal insult is really about extreme expressions. They're different. We have to keep that distinction. I would ask Mr Verhoeven to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u18	I agree with that, but in my first term I also made it very clear that this distinction has already been covered by Article 266, which goes well. So you don't need a separate article in 267 (1) to further protect public authority, public body or public institution. That is not necessary, but it does bring the disadvantages I have just mentioned. That is simply the disadvantage of the fact that an unclear criminality is a bad brake on being able to express criticism of the government. This also applies when this criticism is taken as an insult and therefore leads to criminalisation. I hope that the VVD and the PvdA will think again about this aspect of their amendment after this beautiful debate, in which we have listened to each other. I would urge them to do so, because I do not think this is appropriate to the spirit of both parties. I hope that I can see some movement from them in that regard, at least to consider this last point. I'd really appreciate that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you. Does the Minister have anything else to say? No, you've already said everything. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven very much for defending his own initiative proposal. You really did that with passion, but also with arguments. I am always proud when Members of Parliament, despite their busy work, manage to defend their proposals in trade union K. There is a great deal of work involved with an initiative legislative proposal. Whether the bill is passed or not, I would like to congratulate you on that. I'm proud of you for doing that. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u21	This also applies, of course, to the people who have supported you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u22	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u23	This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u24	We will vote on the bill and the amendments next Tuesday. Thank you.
