ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now turn to Mr Kerstens' questions on behalf of the PvdA to the Minister for Defence, who is also very welcome to replace the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The questions are about a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, in Question Time, I am not dealing with the issue of defence, but with the issue of defence. Yesterday we read that the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Ollongren, had made a strong plea in Denmark for a single European army. That is strange, because last Wednesday, when we discussed the defence budget here, the Minister of Defence made an equally firm plea against such a European army. Moreover, the Minister of Defence said the week before that such a European army should not be there for the Netherlands, as the Prime Minister also said. Then there is a good chance, you would think, that the Minister of the Interior had gotten something of that, for example, in the Council of Ministers, but apparently that is not the case. Now, of course, it can all be one big, ingenious action to lead the Russians astray, you don't know, these are surprising times, but still: the cabinet must speak with one voice. The previous party leader of Mrs Ollongren's party, Mr Pechtold, even tabled a motion on this once again. That's when it was about DOD, by the way. Speaking with one mouth did not happen here; that is clear. I would have preferred to invite both ministers to Question Time this afternoon. Then I would sit in my own place, with chips and Coke, and see what would happen. But in the end, as you can see, I invited the Secretary of Defense this afternoon, because after all, she's about Defense, you'd think. What does the Minister think? What does she think of her colleague, the Minister of the Interior, who says things about Defence abroad, who is opposed to what she has repeatedly said about it? And it's not just about one thing, it's about the idea that there should be a European army, because that would be the only answer to Trump, Putin and the Brexit. My question to the Minister of Defence is simple and, as I read, I also read, at least with the colleagues of her coalition partner, the VVD. They call this thing between two ministers bizarre. What is the position of the Dutch cabinet? What do you think of the statements made by your D66 colleague in your area? Did you climb on the phone right away, or did she apologize to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, I am indeed here on behalf of the Minister of the Interior. Anyway, thank you, on behalf of the cabinet. It is also always interesting to speak on behalf of a Deputy Prime Minister. The line of the cabinet is clear and clear: a European army goes far too far in the Netherlands. I've reported that several times in your room. I did so last week, as Mr Kerstens rightly pointed out, but I also did so in the general consultations we had in preparation for the RBZ Council, where I shared that statement with Mr Blok. A majority of your Chamber wholeheartedly supports that line, as I have seen, on the basis that the decision-making power over commitment remains with our government and your Chamber at all times. The Prime Minister has also explicitly expressed this view on behalf of the cabinet. Of course, I have been in contact with the Deputy Prime Minister, who is currently staying in Brussels. Let me be clear: this cabinet, including the Deputy Prime Minister, does not think there can be a European army replacing national armies. Enhanced defence cooperation in the EU is a good thing. There's no misunderstanding about that. Last week we talked about this in this Chamber until late. NATO remains the cornerstone of the Dutch security policy. That is important, as you said yourself, and that was also apparent from the previous questions, because we are living in turbulent times. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is good that the Minister of Defence once again states that the Minister of the Interior has not spoken on behalf of the cabinet abroad. She said something there that could not have been on behalf of the cabinet. But I am a little disappointed by the Minister's reaction to the next point. I told you, we had a meeting last week with the defense budget. I remember the Minister speaking with fire and passion. That was not about the fact that her soldiers should finally get a good collective agreement or about the tip-off chrome-6 victims who have been fooled for years by the Defense Department; no, it was about the minister himself. The minister felt passed by an alderman of D66 from Amsterdam, the successor of Mrs Ollongren, so to speak. As sturdy as the minister was here last week, when she felt that she had been passed over, because there is a difference of opinion about that, she is so weak today. I would have expected that at least it would have been clearly stated, perhaps that has happened and the Minister could say something about it, that this position, which was expressed by our Minister for the Interior, is not the cabinet position. 'Cause it's about something. It is about whether we, I would like to hear the Minister, still find the United States a reliable partner; who is ultimately about our armed forces. And whether we are not sneaking into one more European army. So I would like the Minister here to give a guarantee that it will be over now with other ministers who say completely different things in her portfolio about very important things when it comes to the defence of the Netherlands and with that about the security of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. In the direction of your Chamber, I have just expressed the cabinet's position. I want to do the same with passion. The cabinet is not for a European army. There's no misunderstanding about that. I speak on behalf of the cabinet. I told you: I am speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister, also on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister. We are not in favour of a European army replacing national armies. That is because, as far as we are concerned, sovereignty on the sword must always lie with the Dutch Government and with the Dutch Parliament. You can check us at any time, and that must be done here. That is and remains the position of the cabinet. So that is also on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister, as I said in my reply in the first term. I do not think all the other points raised by Mr Kerstens are relevant to this debate in relation to the points he raised about the collective agreement, chromium et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	Yeah, that's got nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	They have absolutely nothing to do with it and they were discussed more than well in the budget debate by the Secretary of State, who replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's right. I had warned you before to drag these kinds of subjects into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. I did not drag them in to get an answer from the Minister, because we discussed this in detail last week. That's what the Minister says. I only indicated that when the Minister spoke passionately and passionately in that budget debate, it was not about that but about her own position. By the way, I think the Minister made it clear that it was a bit 'for once and never again' when it came to the statement of the Minister for the Interior on the Dutch defence policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	D66 was pleasantly surprised that Minister Ollongren has the courage and the courage to be absolutely clear about the importance of striving for a European military force at this very time with so many threats. I think it's important, also because I don't think anyone understands what a European army means anymore. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: is it still the case that the Minister is fully committed to European defence cooperation? Working together, training a European Defence Fund, possibly doing missions together, a common foreign security policy, a joint innovation fund. All in Brussels to continue to promote European defence cooperation and, ultimately, to contribute to the objective of D66 and to the European armed forces?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	On that last point, I do not share the D66's objective of establishing a European military force. I'd like to say that right here. What I am doing is indeed working together at European level, working together in all kinds of ways, indeed, in the permanent structured cooperation where the Netherlands is the trigger of the military mobility process for which we have received a great deal of compliments, both at European level and in NATO, by the way. We put that together. This applies, for example, to the cyber project we are working on at European level. This applies to the European Defence Fund that we are working on. On a number of other points, we have some criticisms, because I can see Mrs Karabulut standing by, for example, in the framework of the European Peace Facility. I have also transferred it on behalf of your Chamber, but we are in favour of European cooperation, and we are in favour of it. For example, bilaterally. The First Dutch-German Army Corps in Münster is a total collaboration of the Netherlands and Germany. There are many more examples I can name. But we are not in favour of a European military force, we are not in favour of a European army, and the cabinet is not in favour of that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	Then I'll go to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. I want to believe the minister, but I don't believe her. Why not? When you look at the practice in Europe, more and more steps are being taken towards that European army. The European Defence Fund, with a pot of up to 40 billion, also gives great powers to the arms industry. The war pot, called the peace facility, of Mogherini: EUR 10.5 billion. Powers on our foreign policy...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	...all given away by this cabinet. It's Prime Minister Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	He says one thing, he does the other. My question to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mrs. Karabulut, the microphone is off, no one can hear you. There's just been a budget discussion with the Defense Department. I therefore give you the opportunity to ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	Sorry, I had to do this because these are the three parts that lead to that European army. So my question to the Minister is: why is the cabinet against this further integration? If it sounds like an army, if it looks like an army, we will soon find that it is a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u22	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. I cannot give Mrs Karabulut the faith. Sometimes you have to have faith a little. I would like to add that I really disagree with her on this point, because we are in favour of European cooperation in a number of areas. European cooperation is good. The fact that we are doing interoperability, for example, is good. I don't think the SP's gonna fight that either. We're not getting messed up anywhere. Why doesn't the Netherlands want that? Because sovereignty here must remain with this parliament when it comes to the deployment of our military. The sovereignty of the sword is therefore our argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased with the answer given by the Minister. My question is, in fact, the following. The misunderstanding arose because a fellow minister spoke here about a European army, whereas if you read further, European cooperation is meant. My question is whether the cabinet would like to speak in future, wherever it is discussed, not about a European army but about European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. I myself always talk about European cooperation, as Mr Stoffer knows. I'll talk to your room about that, too. But the reaction that was originally involved was, of course, a reaction that I also discussed with the Chamber in preparation for the RBZ, the JUMBO RBZ of two weeks ago, I believe. I'm just losing count with the weeks, Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me. There we responded to what Mr Macron and Mrs Merkel had brought in. They had indeed spoken of a European military force or a European army. The cabinet, through me, through the Prime Minister and through the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has renounced this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u27	Second question, Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u28	I thank the Minister for the answer. This is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u29	Okay, then I don't count this comment as a second question. Thank you.
