ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on increasing congestion. Welcome to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. Of course, I would also like to welcome my colleagues. You all have four minutes' speaking time. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The greatest file debate ever," my colleague would have said. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of April, the ANWB was a cry about the growing traffic congestion. In the first quarter of 2018, there was no less than 25% more traffic congestion than in the first quarter of 2017. The road occupation is thus back at the 2007 level, the year before the economic crisis. Unfortunately, investment in our road network is also lagging behind. Yet from Rijkswaterstaat it is pretended that there is little going on. Because of a different measurement method, Rijkswaterstaat reaches a much lower percentage. This difference is easy to explain. The ANWB also uses floating car data from navigation systems and mobile phones. This system, unlike that of Rijkswaterstaat, measures not only highways but also the underlying road network. This gives a much more accurate picture of the traffic situation. Rijkswaterstaat only counts traffic jams when their length is at least 2 kilometers and there is a speed of less than 50 km/h. That explains the paper reality of Rijkswaterstaat. Does the Minister agree with the PVV that, for example, a 1.5 km file or a 60 km/h traffic jam should also be considered a traffic jam? Is she willing to talk to the ANWB to see how the file figures can be compiled better? Mr. Chairman. The PVV is very concerned about the traffic jams. Without counter-measures, the Randstad will turn into one major traffic infarct. The urbanisation and growth of the economy are creating an ever-increasing traffic pressure. During the past cabinet period much has been said about traffic limitation. As far as PVV is concerned, it has to go completely the other way. Public authorities must pursue positive policies aimed at improving mobility. That's where the solution is. At 1,000 kilometers of lanes until 2030, we're not gonna make it by a long shot. The Mobility Policy Knowledge Institute indicates in the 2017 Mobility Image that, based on current policy, total travel time loss will increase by 28% in 2022 compared to 2016. Therefore, additional investment in direct traffic control must be made as soon as possible. It's time to stop experimenting from the "before it doesn't, then it doesn't" mentality. All in all, these experiments cost us money. Instead, we should bet on what works. Each euro must serve more asphalt, better and affordable public transport and modal shift in the transport of the road to water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u3	Before you proceed, Mr Sienot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u4	It is clear: we are just on our way and the words "more asphalt" are already flying around our ears. Recently, the Rli calculated that 1% more asphalt also leads to 1% more traffic. So eventually there's more, more, more traffic. That's not gonna make it. Do you want to make the Netherlands one big highway? Or do you want to learn what works and see how we really do something about the traffic jams? Or do you just want to shout out what sounds cool?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u5	You know what sounds really cool? Something about calling out a bike plan, while you also drove over asphalt this morning. But of course we want more asphalt. We now want a solution for the fight against congestion. We can't realize that with D66's ideas to get people out of the car. Do you explain to that painter, that contractor, that builder, how he's supposed to get on the train in the morning with his buckets of paint and brushes or on his baking bike, on his way to his job? You really need more asphalt for that, Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Sienot, before you continue, I note that I hadn't made any arrangements with you about the number of interruptions. And I find release so dangerous again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u7	I've got seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u8	Seven? That's a lot. Let's do four. That's two to two, but it's four. This is your second interruption. Okay? Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr President, I would very much like to respond to this. Of course, there are people in traffic who have no choice. But there are also a lot of people who go to their offices to send e-mails to someone who is two desks away. We're just trying to get those people out of traffic. Do you not agree with us that we need to do much more than just lay down asphalt to get people out of traffic? We really need to work on that, because that is really effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u10	I knew D66 had a special view of the world, but if he really thinks that people are gonna be in traffic for fun in the morning and if it couldn't have chosen an alternative, I don't know which planet this gentleman from D66 is from. There's no one standing in traffic for fun in the morning if they could've gone to work in any other way. Mr. Chairman. For example, the EUR 60 million of the Better Benutten programme, which should therefore be redirected from indirect mobility improvement to direct traffic control. We can do that through a redeployment in the MIRT next week. Is the Minister prepared to stop those experiments that have not been proven to be useful and necessary and to release as much money as possible for direct traffic control? In addition, there are many solutions that can be implemented with a minimum investment. For example, the PVV motion on upgrading peak lanes to full lanes needs to be speeded up. We've been talking about this for over eight years. It is crazy that we do not make optimal use of the current road capacity because of local air quality. Files: that's where the air gets dirty! But also the homogenisation of the different speed regimes ensures better flow and less delay due to accidents. Or make more maintenance crews available, which can occur immediately if there are faults with bridges, locks or tunnels. Make sure that garbage collection services and municipal street sweepers do their job outside peak hours by default. Does the Minister share our urgency and will she do everything in her power to defeat the traffic jam monster? What is the Commission's position on the concrete solutions put forward by the PVV? Mr. Chairman. After all, it is always about the money, and that is why we must not forget to tackle the under-utilisation of the Infrastructure Fund. Approved projects do not start and the money is used elsewhere to fill the government budget gap. That's not according to the agreement. Funds for infrastructure must be recovered as soon as possible and all delayed projects must continue. This cabinet wants everyone off the gas and the PVV says above all: keep the gas on it! Get that asphalt machine moving as fast as you can. Mr. Chairman. Whether the Netherlands is necking the file monster, or the file monster will be necking the Netherlands: there are no more flavors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u12	The PVV wants to invest more in asphalt. That certainly appeals to the VVD. But if you do, of course you have to do it in the right place. Where would you put that and on what basis would you make those choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u13	I can't answer that right now. Next week we will discuss projects in the MIRT consultation. At the moment, I would like to draw particular attention to getting these figures in order, so that if we make an investment, which also benefits the underlying road network and is also the best solution. We can only spend our money once, so I think we should do it the right way now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. Mr Sienot has the floor, because Mr Van Dijk was announced, but he is not here. Mr Sienot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. They really exist: people who can hardly imagine what a traffic jam is. They avoid the busy rush by first working at home. For example, they start the day with a conference call and another time they cycle to work. Of course I know that not everyone has that choice. For some people, the traffic is inevitable. They must be on the road at that time, as a professional transporter, contractor or nurse on shiftwork. D66 wants these people to keep driving. For that, we really don't have to take all the cars off the road. If we seduce some of the people, traffic flows much better. We can take care of that together. There are also people who are in traffic now who want to go to the office in a different way. For them: the traffic you are ultimately also yourself. Many of them are quite open to avoiding rush hour once or several times a week by working at home or by bike or train to work. Files are a waste of their time. In addition, they can do something for a better climate. Because if we want to reach the Paris agreement, we also need to make other transport choices. Platform The Correspondent calls people who consciously choose for the climate and against the file "Parijszigers"; a good term. If we give people a little incentive and freedom of choice, there's a Parisian in many of us. That is why D66 has three additions to the Minister's congestion approach. First of all: put the bike up to 15 kilometers on one. Last week, the Secretary of State Van Veldhoven presented her plan to get 200,000 commuters out of traffic. A good plan, especially because it seduces employees, with a good lease bike arrangement and publishing the mileage fee of 19 cents. D66 also sees plenty of chance to seduce people to leave their car standing for a day by the incentive "pay to use." Think of a test where employees get a lower addition if they leave the car more often. I'm sure there's a lot more to come up with. We are happy to leave that to the Minister and experts of the Mobility Alliance. We are just asking the Minister how we can make sure that during this cabinet period we find out what works to make people choose the right means of transport at the right time, without getting double bills for this, but precisely by rewarding them. I have tabled a motion on this subject for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u16	I was a little triggered by some of Mr Sienot's words about a disguised form of road pricing. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u17	D66 wants to tackle the traffic jams and for that we are looking at a very wide package. It is no secret that we have been and are still on account in the past, but we have a government agreement that is no secret either, and in that we have agreed that we will experiment with alternative forms of payment for use for transport and mobility. That is exactly what we are proposing. Minister, look for ways in which we can manage to reward people who want to travel differently to work and thus ease traffic congestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u18	A very special answer. I just heard my colleague say some tough words. What I hear him say about road pricing are just tough words, because this cabinet is not going to do anything about pricing away. Or do you want to fight that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u19	What you hear me say is that we are going to do a test of how we can seduce people to avoid traffic jams and thus ease traffic congestion. In any case, the PVV and D66 share one thing, namely that we must prevent people from being in traffic. We need to make the time in traffic as short as possible. In fact, as far as I am concerned, the traffic bulletin will soon be on the radio every hour or in a few years' time past. We have to get to work for that and we want to get to work for that. That's what we need to learn. That's exactly what I'm proposing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u20	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u21	The platform From the File, at Work, on Tuesday 13 November calls for national traffic-free day, to show that we can manage traffic jams together if we make other choices. Is the Minister willing to participate in this day, along with the Ministry? Finally, Mr President. The Parijsziger is hardly ever in traffic, but sometimes it does. One reason for this may be that mountaineers cannot be present in time. D66 therefore has the following questions. Is it possible that salvagers themselves can arrange security by default, so that they can be on the spot quickly at peak moments as well? In addition, the Minister, and we think this is fantastic, chooses 20 stand-by locations where salvagers are ready to move out quickly if necessary. But why does the Minister not start with this idea until 1 April 2019, when there is another whole winter season in which traffic congestion is always very heavy? So our question is: can we start before winter? We're curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u23	My question concerns the explanation of that phrase in the coalition agreement. Pilots are done without this leading to a system of charging. Is Mr Sienot explaining this sentence in such a way that these pilots are only about measures that reward it not to take the car?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u24	What you hear me say is that we're looking for ways to seduce people to stay out of the car. You've got all kinds of peak-avoidance and peak-avoidance projects. We know many forms of that. I'm very curious to see if we can apply that on a larger scale. You can also think of an example that is already in the press: giving people a slightly lower addition to their lease car if they leave him at the door more often and travel differently. There are all kinds of ways. But above all, you can hear me say: let the Minister, together with the Mobility Alliance, see what is a good way, with support, to get the Netherlands out of traffic and into work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u25	But wouldn't a pilot with rush tax, to see how that would work, be among the possibilities for those pilots?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u26	We have just made a very clear agreement that it should not lead to a system of charging. Everything we call out about that leads to constant discussion. That's what's happening now. It is good in itself that we have that discussion, because then we can ask the Minister for clarification. That's exactly what I want to try. I want her to come before the budget debate with clarity about how we are going to proceed with this, what is and is not part of it. As far as we are concerned, it is very clear and there is a lot of room for things that can be done. I'm sure the Minister knows many more examples. There are experts on top of it. I very much invite them: come before the budgetary procedure with clear language. Then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u27	The first speaker I only heard about asphalt, all I hear is about alternatives. How does D66 feel about the fact that there will still have to be asphalted in order at least to maintain the roads and build new roads? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u28	Actually, I agree. In some places extra lanes can help; we do not secretive about that. We've seen that over the past few years. The construction of a number of additional lanes has led to less congestion. But it can never be the only answer. It is often even a short-term answer. So that's why I want to bet on that longer term. We really need to work on a very good way in which we use the beautiful road network that we have in the Netherlands, so that we can easily go to work, that someone who goes by car can drive and that someone who goes by bike can also drive on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u29	I totally agree with Mr Sienot when he says that we should focus on the long term, but the things you just came up with, those alternatives, I think you can introduce tomorrow, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u30	I'm not sure you can enter that tomorrow. I fully agree with Mr von Martels of the CDA that it is probably very likely to introduce them quickly. We should definitely do that. That is precisely why I would like to raise this issue here today and have also prepared a motion with you, precisely because we see opportunities, in addition to building lanes, to do more in the short term to reduce traffic congestion by promoting other ways of travelling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u31	I think the suggestion of the salvagers and the question why that can't be a good one sooner. I would also like to bring the blue one instead of the orange one. My question is about the article I read this morning at NU.nl, in which Sienot talked about a lower addition and a lower bpm. These are things the VVD is very much for, but it must be feasible and realistic. How do you see a lower addition for a lease driver, who now settles all year round? How the hell are we gonna keep up with that if he leaves his car for one or two days a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u32	I think that is a very understandable question from Mr Dijkstra of the VVD. Do you know what it is? We want to do those tests precisely because we want to learn from them. That's the whole point. How we're going to do that is exactly the art of a trial. In a trial, you try things with new technology. Technology is constantly evolving. We can keep up with more and more useful things. Let's use one of those tests to see how that might work. There is a call from society to do something about traffic jams. There is a call to seduce people to leave the car standing and move them to different travel behaviour. How can we do that smartly, in what ways? That's why we're gonna do those tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u33	From a serious party like D66, I expect them to think through such a plan before they launch it. But isn't it much wiser for you to leave this ball, and certainly those tests, with the employers before we conjure up the entire Tax Office and our own organization? And that we say: it is up to employers to make good agreements with their employees about starting times, about when and how to meet, whether you should come to the case at all? Shouldn't we leave that ball there instead of, for example, overloading the Tax Office, which it already is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u34	I would like to say once again that it is a question of examples of possible experiments to illustrate what we can do to make that beautiful passage, that promising passage from the coalition agreement, to reduce traffic jams. That's the point. How we do that in a smart way is exactly what we can ask the Minister. I believe that Mr Dijkstra agrees, because that is what we agreed together in the coalition agreement. Now, for the budget debate in the autumn, come up with a proposal on how we are going to proceed with this, because this is very promising and we need to redeem that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u35	We note that we now have a traffic problem. So now we need to move towards short-term solutions. I do not know how many projects have now been moved into a so-called bow wave. So they're not being carried out. They are stopped by a bunch of green gnomes in Amsterdam and Utrecht. Does Mr Sienot agree with me that you have to punish that harshly, that the asphalt machine should now be driving and that the problems should be solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u36	D66 believes that there is a minister who has recently used a lot of extra budget to invest in late maintenance, i.e. roads with late maintenance, roads where tunnels may cause problems. Let me say first of all that I agree with you that where driving through physical restrictions is hampered, we must do everything we can to make it possible to continue. Very often I say this immediately when I say that more asphalt mainly attracts more traffic and eventually leads to more traffic. I'd like to avoid that. According to the plan as it stands, we are going to invest in everything: tackling lanes where it pinches, investing in bikes to ensure that people have freedom of choice and the same goes for rail. That is the policy of this cabinet, and that is what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u37	But D66 does agree with me that the projects that are already planned and are being delayed because some green fools are trying to stop them need to be pushed through as quickly as possible in order to get the problems out of the way as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u38	I think I have just said very clearly that we want people to have freedom of choice. Freedom of choice to choose: how do I deal with my journey from A to B? One minute it might be better to catch the train. The other time it might be good to work at home for a change. Sometimes you can just get in the car and get in an electric or hydrogen-powered car and go to your house. We all like it. We want to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you. You had come to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u40	Yes, Madam President. We are curious about the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you. Mr Dijkstra of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every day millions of people drive their cars to work or their sports club. Either they run errands or they go to their families. But definitely going to work is sometimes quite difficult, because the Netherlands is closing down. Files are mostly annoying. Within three years, road users will be on the road for half of the time during peak hours, according to the ANWB. The growth in both passenger and freight transport continues. The loss in travel time in 2022.............................................................................................................................................................................................. The traffic jams cost society between 3 and 4 billion euros a year. In places where more asphalt is laid, there are evidently fewer traffic jams. Take the A1 at Muiderberg, where a substantial investment has led to a drastic reduction in traffic congestion. Asphalt works. But there's more to it. Actually, it's en-and-and. There is therefore a need to look ahead, to continue investing in all modes of transport, so that people also have an alternative. Extra and wide asphalt remains necessary. This is also necessary to ensure that the Netherlands does not stand still. But there is also a need to invest in ov, in bicycles and in all the other things: en-en-en-en. We are now catching up with Rutte III cabinet after a period when we even had to cut back and cut back, unfortunately. It would be nice to have more money available for Dutch infrastructure in the future, because that is our blood that goes through the country when it comes to logistics and people. In the meantime, the economy is growing like coal. The economic damage caused by traffic jams is also increasing. Traffic infarcts will continue to occur, also more and more frequently. On a winter day 400 kilometers we actually find normal and the double is just possible. How are we gonna make sure this file monster doesn't get any bigger? The VVD wants to fight this monster. The beautiful thing is that we know very well where asphalt works best and where it is still needed. The criteria are clear. The top ten of the 50 biggest bottlenecks are already being addressed. The capacity analyses of ways of developing the economy and the economy are clear. The priorities of the coalition agreement also make sense. With co-financing and in cooperation with the regions, much more can be done on the underlying road network. In the future there will be a mobility fund, in which the demand for mobility is, of course, central. ICT will play a major role. Think of safety measures, self-driving cars, but also simple things like changing behaviour by changing working hours or working at home. However, continuous investment in roads is essential. So how do we increase this urgency? How do we increase the result of the available budget, that 100 million, to reduce traffic congestion? In the second batch of your proposal Short-term approach, can we see more investment in peaks and widening roads? Because that's what the VVD likes. What can we do about the many trucks that are now parked along the freight corridors, for example at the A67 and the A12, because they are not allowed to enter Germany on Sundays and holidays? And finally, Mr President, where do the traffic figures we have differ so much from the ANWB? Why is there a difference and what can be done about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr Van Aalst has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u44	I welcome a lot of wise words from my colleague from the VVD. In terms of asphalt, we will join that. We also agree that we know very well where the bottlenecks are. Does my colleague in the VVD agree with me that we should remove the environmental zones and the crazy speed regimes of 100 km/h around cities, which have a zero impact on air quality, as soon as possible in order to improve flow? Those are also bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u45	I just asked the PVV myself: indicate where these bottlenecks are. You had to keep the answer to that. I think we have very good criteria for this. Think of things like a top 50 and a national capacity and market analysis. I hope you agree with us that these criteria are good. Two: you refer to environmental zones, which would cause congestion. I don't feel that way. Environmental zones are a competence of municipalities. As far as I'm concerned, they're not necessary. There are still bottlenecks in a few cities. We've agreed that municipalities can do that. We then decide how. But it's not that environmental zones create traffic jams.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr. Van Aalst, I'm afraid you've already reached the maximum number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u47	Four, right, Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u48	You've had more than four. This is your fifth even.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u49	Okay. I thought it went in two and that's why you meant four times two. But Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u50	No, no, no. It's okay, because unlike...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u51	I agree, Mr President, but part of my question has not been answered, namely that of speed regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yes. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u53	The speed regimes. 130 km/h is the standard in the Netherlands, unless otherwise stated. We try to get 130 km/h everywhere, but it has to meet the safety, air quality and environmental requirements. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u55	I begin with the observation that traffic samples, like all other monsters, are mainly imaginary and are under your bed as a child. However, my question to Mr Dijkstra is what he does with the analyses of the PBL, the CPB, CE Delft, TU Delft and Ecorys that actually say: more asphalt is short-term policy; in the long term, it sludges up and what you need is a form of payment according to usage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u56	The file monster isn't under your bed. That's what you experience when you get out of bed, want to go to work, and then you have to say, "Goddamn it, it's gonna take me another half an hour or 45 minutes." That's just such a shame. The other question was about all those reports. Economic growth is good. This also leads to an increase in traffic movements. About 1% of economic growth leads to 2% more traffic. That's good, and that makes sense. I think we are now making a good catch-up with this cabinet with regard to what we have done too little in the past, namely simply investing in connections, in asphalt, but also in public transport and in other cases. That is necessary to keep the Netherlands mobile, to make sure that you and I are home in time, so that you also have something to do with your family life. We should actually give everyone to be home safely in time without too many traffic jams.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u57	I do not hear an answer to the question I asked in any way. All these reports say that more asphalt is short-term policy, that it shuts down and that what you really need is policy that makes you price at times of scarcity. That's traffic. It's essentially market forces. That is perhaps something Mr Dijkstra should address. There is a shortage in a rush hour. That's how you're gonna price it and get it spread over the day. How does Mr Dijkstra respond to the recommendations in all these reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u58	We get a lot of reports. I also have results from not even reports but just facts. I took the A1 at Muiderberg as an example. There's a lot of investment there. That cost a lot of money, but there's 80% less traffic. I like these developments. Asphalt works there. We need to keep a close eye on that. Secondly, as I said earlier, we are making a catch-up. It is really strange that in a densely populated country like the Netherlands there are still two-lane motorways. You shouldn't want that. You need to upgrade it. You have to do it where the bottlenecks are. Let us also point out: there are a lot of alternatives, such as the bike perhaps at a short distance and the dv, especially in the Randstad. But for 80% of the Dutch, the car is the ultimate thing of mobility. They need that car to go to work or to their families. You can invest whatever you want in OV, but for a large part of the Netherlands the car will always stay. That is why we must continue to invest in good connections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u59	We always come back to the fact that the people who are in traffic in both the morning rush and the evening pits, mainly go to work. I ask Mr Dijkstra, and I appeal to him, whether employers can also take part in this and take responsibility for it by, for example, starting out and stopping working on a widespread basis. Many people can't do that yet; that's why they're in traffic. Does the VVD agree that employers' organisations or employers themselves should also contribute to solving this problem? If so, how does he see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u60	We were just talking about this with Mr. Sienot. I think the key is to give people flexibility to plan their own day. This is good for both the employee himself and the employer, because you do not waste unnecessary time in traffic jams. I really do not understand why we all start at 8:00, 8:30 or 9:00. Some people might want to start at 11:00 and work until 8:00, just like we do here. Then you're either after traffic jams or before traffic jams. But leave people that choice. I believe that large employers in the Netherlands can certainly assume their responsibilities in the Mobility Alliance. But if you're an employer and you have over 1,000 men on the road or have employees with lease cars: make appointments. Is it really necessary to have a meeting on Tuesday morning, which is usually the busiest day, or on Thursday night? We know that, too. Can't it be on a Friday? I'm always in favour of people being able to divide their own lives, which is why I'm liberal, and like you, I think it's just a shame that you're wasting your time in traffic. I'm not gonna fix this, but I want to make it a little more bearable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u61	Here's what I'm curious about. We hear more and more from the party leader of the VVD, Mr Rutte, about the climate. That's what he found out. We love that. Now I wonder if we can count on the VVD to encourage other travel behaviour. Does the VVD support us in encouraging the Minister to proceed quickly with this proposal from the coalition agreement, not only because we are doing something about it against congestion, but also to do a great deal about it for the climate? After all, mobility emissions account for 20%. Can we count on you to make that appeal to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u62	Cars are needed to go from A to B, but they also have emissions. That's unmistakable. That's especially true when they're still in traffic. That's not good for anyone. I am actually awaiting the proposals that the climate table, the mobility table, will come up with. That's one of the five tables out there. I hope that in these proposals they are very much in favour of greening the fleet, for example by lowering the bpm, as you wish, so that people can buy a newer car, which is always cleaner. This might make driving a little cheaper. I hope they'll tell you to pump up your tires, because that's better, too, and that they'll say something about behavioral stuff. I hope they will say that European source policy is the way to do it, namely to impose strict requirements on manufacturers in Brussels. After all, air does not abide by borders. We all benefit from that. But I can't wait to find out what's coming out of that table. I do not hope that there will be any proposals such as road pricing and the like, because we have said that they can go into the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u63	Madam President, this is my fourth, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u64	Nice count!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u65	Well, I didn't really get an answer to my question if I'm being very honest, because we don't have to wait for mobility tables to start working on our own, together with parties like the ANWB and the RAI Association, to carry out what we agreed in the government agreement and to do something about the traffic jams more quickly. Do you really want us to tackle these traffic jams or do you want to wait for people who are talking to each other at the mobility table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u66	No, it's two things that might have a big connection. I want us to reduce congestion in the short term, I want us to make more money available for mobility in the longer term, I want there to be alternatives and I want us to make transport more sustainable at a rate that is also realistic and affordable. I am very curious to hear the proposals from the table. We don't have to wait long for that, because they will be on July 10th. We're gonna watch that for sure. You yourself called on the Mobility Alliance to do so. By the way, he's been sitting at that table too. So one certainly doesn't rule out the other. We also want to make transport more sustainable, but we are sure that traffic jams are not sustainable. They're annoying to the people who ruin your mood and they also ruin the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u67	I heard Mr Dijkstra say one thing with which I can agree, and that is the statement: I am not solving it; perhaps I am making it a little more bearable. Shouldn't the ambition be to solve the traffic jams? And shouldn't we follow all those experts who say we should experiment with different forms of charging? A rush tax would be one. There will be all kinds of pilots done by this cabinet. Then why not a pilot around rush tax to try it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u68	I was pleased with the beginning of your question. Then I thought: oh, GroenLinks is now coming across the bridge with tens of billions to speed up the resolution of all the bottlenecks that have arisen in the past! That's where I found you. But of course your question went further; it was about charging. We made a clear agreement in the coalition agreement that there will be no charging during this period. So you can ask whatever you want, but it's not gonna happen. On the other hand, I find, but that's my interpretation, that we actually already have some form of charging. If you drive a lot, you use a lot of fuel and pay a lot of excise duty. You already pay a lot as a motorist anyway, because motorists contribute 20 billion. And that doesn't go 20 billion to roads, you know. That's only a fraction of that amount. So basically, we already have some kind of bill ride. Let's just leave it at that. Let's see what's smarter. Sometimes that's more asphalt, absolutely. I am very much in favour of this, and this should also be said in this Chamber, because nobody else is saying it. But it is also behavior, including ICT and, of course, public transport. It's en-and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u69	Thank you. Then that brings us to Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Albert Einstein's definition of madness was: doing the same thing each time and expecting other outcomes. Let's change it sometime. The previous Cabinets, even in times of crisis, have spent a lot of money on extra asphalt to prevent drivers from suffering from too many other drivers. And despite that huge increase in the number of asphalt kilometres, the number of car kilometres grew harder. Files are therefore basically not a problem of too little asphalt, but of too many cars at the same time on the road. And since the growth of road traffic is not only self-inflicted, but also our climate ambitions, healthy air, road safety, noise standards, spatial planning, nature and liveable cities, it would be obvious to tackle the problem of the cause, namely car use. We are going to talk about the MIRT next week and then we will talk about the use of resources in detail, but as far as we are concerned, the real solutions lie in the wider policy. The GroenLinks programme, according to throughputs, offers by far the best solution for accessibility. In addition, there will be livingability, climate, road safety and travel time gains. What is needed for this is that we encourage people to take the car less and at the same time we invest in good ov and in the bike as an attractive alternative to shorter distances. We need to make sure that not everyone gets the car at the same busy time. I hope everyone agrees on that. Paying according to usage, where use at busy times is more expensive, is a good tool to tackle traffic congestion. This is not only the opinion of GroenLinks; it is also evident from many studies of recent years. I have just mentioned PBL, CPB, CE Delft, TU Delft, Ecorys and many others. They have calculated year after year that we will get stuck anyway if we do not target prices. And for years, the big organizations on the road, from ANWB to TLN, have been convinced that there is nothing else we can do. Paying to use keeps people out of traffic when they can. My question is specifically about the coalition agreement. We move around in circles all the time. It has been agreed that there will be no system of charging during this cabinet, but that does not mean that the pilots that are being carried out will be able to investigate what form of charging or rush tax could work. Mr. Dijkstra just reported it. There will be no system for this cabinet period, but I think it would be possible to investigate with different pilots. I really hope the Minister is prepared to do so. An underlying problem in our mobility policy is that it is bottleneck-oriented and does not deal with future challenges. Recently, the Rli came up with an opinion that runs counter to current policy: not through-painting when it gets crowded, but just trying to reduce traffic demand with good spatial policy and pricing. Our mobility policy has now been subordinated to the predictions of the NMCA. We are looking at where the next bottleneck will be created at the same time, and there will have to be another 100 million with asphalt and concrete. We really want this to be different. We must choose to reverse trends and make other choices for the Netherlands. Instead of standing still on the beaten track, we can choose to take a different path by ensuring that we not only move forward, but that we do so again in a way that contributes to the quality of life and sustainability. I really hope that, as a Chamber, we can reach these conclusions in broad terms. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you. Mr von Martels has the floor. There is another interruption by Mr Dijkstra to Mrs Kröger? Then you're a little late. If you look at Mrs Kröger very nicely, she might want to go back to the chair. I think so. Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u72	Now I'm afraid to ask the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u73	I hope it's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u74	I hope so, too. I'm gonna start having second thoughts, Mr. Chairman. Does GroenLinks want to invest in asphalt and also in new roads if you see that this will, for example, lead to more quality of life by driving cars than another route? Or is GroenLinks at all against investing in asphalt and roads and what so ever?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u75	I think it is important for us to ensure that before we make choices on how to solve mobility bottlenecks, we really have all the impacts and that we also have a long-term perspective. We see that this is not the case with the way in which we are currently dealing with the MIRT, the NMCA and the whole problem analysis. We have doubts about the current investment in asphalt. We would really like to see a better analysis based on that analysis, taking into account the climate challenges of Paris and our incredible challenge in terms of health and air quality. Mr Dijkstra and I discussed this at length last year during the AA on the MIRT, and we will certainly do so again next year, because we are really worried that we are taking decisions on billions without taking the long-term perspective into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u76	Thank you. Mr von Martels has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you, Mr President. We are not standing here for nothing today. Over the last ten years, the number of cars in the Netherlands has increased from 7.4 million to 8.4 million. We have also noticed that congestion increased by 25% in the first quarter of this year in particular. We all know that the damage is great. The central question is: what is the Minister going to do or what are we going to do about it? As far as the CDA is concerned, there is not one ultimate magic solution. Traffic jams and CO emissions will only be combated by a very broad approach. When considering this approach, you first need a vision. How do we see mobility in the future? The CDA wants to move towards smart mobility. First of all, we want additional investment to be made in national roads, both A and N roads, in order to eliminate the bottlenecks. This applies to the Randstad but also to the region. That's what the coalition agreement says. In addition to these additional investments, we want to focus on smart mobility. We want it to be possible to determine five minutes before departure how we travel to our destination. We opt for a combination of forms of transport that is best suited to this. Smart travel is therefore flexible, effective and sustainable. Innovations and new technologies for mobility must therefore be fully exploited. Mr. Chairman. The CDA would like a broad approach in which the following issues at least play a role. We need a catch-up in infrastructure. The cabinet made available EUR 2 billion cumulatively for the next ten years. The structural budget will then be increased by EUR 100 million. Part of that money is going to weigh. What about concrete plans? When is the 2 billion-year-old woman really gonna fill this out and tell us where we're going with this? Does the Minister see any chance of making concrete measurements in this area in the first year of this cabinet? The coalition chord already mentions a whole series of roads: the A1, the A2, the A4, the A7, the A12, the A15, the A28 and the A58. The CDA wants to speed things up and wants to hear how the Minister is going to insert quickly and quickly. Good information on traffic jams is also important. Often people can make a different choice and still go on a bike or by train, for example. We heard that Rijkswaterstaat bases the calculations and predictions about traffic jams on the loops in the road, while the ANWB uses the so-called floating car data. This leads to different outcomes. Will the Minister consult with the ANWB to see which dates are best? We like to leave it to experts, but data is crucial to tackle traffic jams. By the way, the CDA has often expressed doubts about the difference between traffic figures and traffic congestion experience on the A67. According to the Minister, there are hardly any traffic jams there, while the experience is different. Can that be because there are hardly any detection loops in the way? Incident management is also a factor in the process of being known as "incident management" which plays an important role. Accidents or unlucky cars lead to traffic jams. If these obstacles are quickly removed, the files will also be resolved quickly. Does the Minister see an opportunity to further optimize incident management? We do not think it is enough to give financial incentives alone. According to the CPB, people need to understand its usefulness and convenience, without being coerced. That works best. The CDA supports the call for business to look smarter at ways of getting staff to work. More homework and videoconferencing can help reduce congestion and CO emissions. Does the Minister share this view? I have previously advocated a supplement to the existing network of high-speed cycle paths. A motion has been passed on that. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? It is clear that high-speed cycle paths between residential centres and, for example, office locations can mean a very nice reduction in traffic jams. Mr. Chairman. The CDA sees the real solution in smart mobility. For example, we see developments in the car system: self-driving cars, sharing systems, improved navigation systems with distribution technology. These developments will solve the problem of congestion faster and better in the long term than anything else, but we will have to make maximum use of technology and innovation in the coming years. Does the Minister share that thought? And if so, what is she going to do about it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thank you to Mr von Martels. Finally, Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nothing is more frustrating than getting into your car in the morning to be brave enough to go to work and then put thousands of others in traffic. However, for many people this is the daily reality. We can have a debate or a competition about who hates traffic jams most, or who knows the best term for the traffic sample or the traffic bulletin, but I think we all agree on one thing: nobody wants traffic jams here. And these traffic jams have increased enormously over the past year, according to the ANWB. The question is, of course, what are we going to do to combat these traffic jams, to tackle them? Are we going to seduce people not to take the car, but to take their journey in a different way? Or are we just gonna drop more asphalt? As far as we are concerned, this cabinet chooses the latter: with 1,000 kilometers of extra highway, the Netherlands needs to be flattened in the hope that people can drive again. But of course that's nothing more than moving the problem. Where the widening of the road stops, everyone will stop again. This is a little bit separate from the fact that the underlying road network "N-roads' and "municipal roads' are also far from always able to handle the additional cars. How does the Minister intend to solve this problem with provinces and municipalities? A lot of people in traffic are on their way to work. This is why employers also have a responsibility to consider and solve this problem. Does the Minister see this? And does she talk to employers' organisations about possible solutions, such as more often working at home and opportunities for workers to start and stop working on a spread basis? Can the Minister tell us what she has already done in this area and what she is going to do? More asphalt, and therefore more cars, is not the solution to the congestion problem. As far as the SP is concerned, we really need to bet on seducing motorists. You do not do this by leaving public transport and regional transport entirely to the market, which puts money and non-travelers at the centre. Because then bus lines disappear like snow in front of the sun and people are being chased in those stationary cars massively. Tackling congestion is also done by investing in public transport and fast bicycle routes. Only an integrated view of mobility, which does not focus on profit, but can move from A to B as quickly as possible, is the solution to the problem of congestion. Mr. Chairman. This means that we really need to get rid of the old-fashioned box thinking of the Infrastructure Fund. We have to go on. We need to work towards a mobility fund. This should not happen until 2030, as this cabinet wants, because then we will not be able to get out of traffic, which is much bigger than we are now. We have to think about that now. We're gonna have to do that soon. That is why I would also ask the Minister to keep the space in place not to keep the old key in the Infrastructure Fund, but to really look at what is needed and so use the money. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u80	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u81	The next item is the debate on increasing congestion. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a general rule, I shall begin with a point that has actually been raised by almost all Members, namely that there is not one magic solution, as Mr von Martels said. There's not one recipe on one modality that's gonna bring the solution. In these times of the World Cup Football there is a lot of talk about football, but unfortunately little more about Dutch football. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say that we must also have a global approach to this. We need to focus on all possible means. Some ended up in an asphalt-and-concrete debate, if I may put it that way. Then I immediately remind you that also for bike paths, whether or not for high speed, asphalt and concrete is needed. This also applies, for example, to the use of transport by road to the water. Our works of art there, our bridges, locks and so on are also related to asphalt and concrete. It is therefore an approach with infrastructure measures in all possible areas. It's also about the modal shift, of course. We did not talk very much about this in your speech today, because of course it was mainly about passenger transport. But we must not forget that there is a great deal of economic damage caused by freight traffic in traffic jams. Hence our commitment to this modal shift: as much transport as possible from the road to the water and to the rail. It is important that we make the most of this together. Another point that many people have also mentioned is behavior. Questions have been asked about the role of employers. I will go into more detail later, but to point out that I am also going for the overall approach, this is something that is extremely important. We must try to influence and break the behavior of employers too, in the sense that they do not always think rigidly in the old patterns of "so and so late we have that meeting every week at that location." We should definitely keep doing that. If people could go to work at another time, whether because they like it or because the employer suggests it, that is a form of flexibility that we need to discuss much more with each other. The same applies to freight transport. The Secretary of State and I are the girls of the pitfalls, but of course we also want to seduce shippers not only to send their workers not only to certain times but also to move their goods to the water where possible and to do so at other times if possible. The fourth line in this overall approach is, of course, to do with innovation, the new technological solutions that are possible. I think there are plenty of examples of all experimenting with. I call truck platooning, which allows the trucks to drive closer together, sharing more data on what load is in which truck to avoid a lot of trucks being empty or partially empty on the road, which can also lead to huge improvement, and talking traffic. So there are also a lot of possibilities in terms of technology and innovation. What do we do with the main road network? We are very extensive and unabated in working hard to achieve enlargement and improvements. There are a lot of projects currently under way, in preparation or in progress. I'll mention a few. At the moment we have the shovel in the ground for projects, such as Schiphol-Amsterdam-Almere, the A10/Zuidas, the A27/A1, the Rotterdamsebaan and the N35/Zwolle, where I don't happen to look in a certain direction in the room. Work is under way to prepare the implementation of the Blankenburg connection, the A16/Rotterdam and the extended A15 and the Ring Utrecht. Thanks to extra money from this cabinet, money has been reserved for large sections such as the A2/Deil-Den Bosch and the A58/Breda-Tilburg on which I was also allowed to celebrate the start decision with the regional directors concerned not so long ago. The A15/Papendrecht-Gorkum will of course come. I would also like to point out that in all these major projects under the global approach, it is an important point of attention in our procurement procedures to minimise the nuisance during the work. A contractor can score on it if he can show that in dealing with his project he causes less trouble for long or at crucial times. Apart from these very large new projects, there are also a lot of small measures to reduce the congestion that are usually in the context of maintenance, renovation or replacement. Recent examples are the connection N14/A4 which has been modified and the merging of the A12 with a parallel orbit at the junction Oudenrijn. Also this year the expansion to Vinkeveen on the A2 will be extended to increase safety and flow there. I have already informed you of additional short-term measures I am taking to reduce congestion. Among other things, we are going to boost the deployment of mountaineers and road inspectors in twenty strategic locations. Mr Sienot also spoke about this. We also sat around the table with the sector itself to talk about the places where it is best to do so. In practice, therefore, it is mainly about locations on and around the ring roads around the major cities. So it is very good that we are working on this together with the sector. In 2018 we have already changed the marking at the junction Batadorp and we are going to take infra-measures later, such as improving the connection of the N3 to the A15 and improving the connection of the northern ring Utrecht to the A2. These are the smaller measures which can have a significant impact on the flow. Another example is located north of Amsterdam. There, additional sensors will give altitude warnings earlier on the route, so that we can avoid the great annoyance over the trucks that run because they run too long and block a tunnel. All this falls into the category of smaller measures. As I just said, we are also working hard with smart mobility to get the best out of our network, because you also want to influence the demand side. Mr. Chairman. I see Mr Remco Dijkstra standing. I don't know if he has any questions about the previous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u83	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u84	I can't get enough of the above. All those A's and N's! And then I'm thinking, "Oh, yeah, where exactly is that?" The ANWB wrote a letter recently. A number of colleagues have already referred to this. We have $100 million for that short-term approach. A number of points you mention are also included in that letter. There was a bit of the fear that the second batch, the second part of the 100 million we're going to fill in, would all go towards "better used"-like states. Or is it true that in that second batch we also give this kind of thing, such as opening up peaks and better connections, a nice place when we also know where that has the most effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u85	I can reassure Mr Dijkstra. That second tranche of 60 million still to come, which you will see in the autumn, will simply be on the same footing as the first tranche. Mr. Chairman. Then the smart mobility. I very much agree with all the Members who have said: you must also try to influence that question. You need to create incentives so that people, wherever possible, no longer need to drive in rush hour. Mr Sienot asks: can the Minister show which projects and what ideas are coming, whatever you are going to do in concrete terms? I would like to undertake to do so, together with the mobility alliance that is also working on it and which employers are also represented in, and to see what is possible. There are all kinds of ideas, fortunately not only from myself and from the entire ministry but also from all those parties in the mobility alliance. Let me give you an example from a perhaps not immediately obvious angle, but certainly important. There are insurance companies at the table, for example. In my time as a fintech rapporteur in the European Parliament, I have learned that in other countries there are concepts of car insurance linked to the dates that you can have registered. There are now also those lockers in cars possible. It is possible that your insurer makes a link so you only have to pay an insurance premium for the days you actually drive. That's an incentive for people to think, if they wanted to take a little ride, that if I don't take that ride, I won't have to pay my share of the insurance premium for today. That is the kind of question I have put to the insurers. I believe it was in Denmark. If such an insurance policy is possible there, why not? For example, there are many dozens of possibilities that, I think, can come forward well. I will be very happy to give you an undertaking to clarify that broad palette.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u86	I can well hear the Minister say that she sees all kinds of possibilities and that she wants to work with all kinds of parties. Of course, I'm very happy to hear that. I also think we should do this together. So that's where we'll find each other. So far, there has been a lot of uncertainty. If a party came up with a proposal somewhere, then it was actually served quite quickly, so to speak: no, that does not comply with the agreements as we know it. Do you share with D66 the perception that it is now time to really make it as concrete as possible how you are going to work with that passage 'that mission', I would almost say, out of the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u87	I think it would be very good if we were to clarify this as soon as possible. I would like to say this straight away to Mrs Kröger and Mr Laçin. I'm gonna call Einstein, too. If the same questions are asked over and over again, in this case about charging or before 2030, you should not expect to receive a different answer. It's still the same. We've got the appointments, they're on. But I will certainly be happy to clarify the content of the agreements as soon as possible, so that everyone can see that work is being done. Again, we are working hard on the Mobility Alliance. It will also make concrete what it means, so that it really becomes an action plan and we will also gain real experience and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u88	The reason it is asked time and time again is that the phrase from the coalition agreement creates a lot of uncertainty. It is said that there will be no system of charging for this cabinet period. But then it is said that alternative forms of transport and payment are being piloted. The Minister sees the total football as a model to fight traffic jams. Is it not possible, in consultation with a region in need, to carry out a pilot on a limited scale around rush tax? Or does the Minister categorically exclude pilots around rush tax over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u89	The sentence in the coalition agreement is clear to me. It says that there will be no system for charging and that we will not pre-sort it. But of course there are a lot of opportunities to see how to get people out of rush hour with alternative forms. Of course, it's not just about rush hour driving. For example, it is also a question of tempting shippers to use inland waterway transport more; I have just mentioned this point. In the overall package you can of course see what you can do with smart technology. There may also be incentives for employers, for example, to transport goods vehicles by rail or inland waterway instead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u90	However, the principle that more should be paid during the peak for using the infra, where there is currently scarcity, is categorically excluded as a way to investigate in this total footfall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u91	It is if it leads to a system of charging.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mrs Kröger, let me remind you that there are no more than four interruptions. This is your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A pilot is a pilot. The choice of whether it then leads to a system is up to us. But it's not being investigated at all. It takes a number of years to introduce a system of charging. So if it is introduced, it will not be in this cabinet period. But does the Minister also categorically exclude from her interpretation of the phrase in the coalition agreement that we can get information on the table to see how it would work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u94	We have talks at the Mobility Table and with the Mobility Alliance to get to the fight against congestion, from rush hour to rush hour. Let us see where we can come up with workable solutions for which there is also support. That is what Mr Sienot said in his speech. 'Cause that's what you're gonna need after all. Well, then we'll see what kind of pilots they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u95	I'm using my last interruption. I am now hearing something positive, namely that something is not categorically excluded. From the ANWB and other organisations, a form of payment to use, which is absolutely part of a rush tax, is really being promoted for a long time. So I hope that I can interpret this in this way: if from these organisations the basis comes to say 'let's do a pilot', then the Minister is open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u96	Let me remind you of what Mr Dijkstra actually said: there are of course already forms of payment according to use. It is called, for example, 'duty on fuel'. So, of course, I'm not ruling that out, because that's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u97	I thought that was a bit of a silly answer from the Minister. Anyway, that's not what my interruption is about. I will come back to the Infrastructure Fund and the Mobility Fund in 2030. The Minister says: you ask the same question each time, so you also get the same answer. The reason why I have asked this on several occasions is that I also hear the Minister say, even in the debate/legislative consultation we have just had, that we are looking at mobility issues. So when we ask how to solve a bottleneck, we see what the need is at a bottleneck. Then we can vary. But in the variants of the solutions we have, we stick to the old penny-thinking when it comes to distributing the money. We find that very strange. I would like to ask the Minister: if we look at the solutions we can come up with for a bottleneck, why not do so with the resources we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u98	For this, too, I am sticking to the agreements made in the coalition agreement. The fact that we keep these financial flows separate does not, of course, rule out the fact that we are already looking fully at these bottlenecks in the short term. We are. Only, as long as we have these agreements with each other, you will have to ensure that the financial resources are made available from the various pots. However, it is not the case that we are waiting until 2030 for this overall balance, because we are already explicitly looking at how we solve the problems in different regions. We do this without specifically looking at what you do with the roads and doing there with the track.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u99	Then I'd like to deepen it. Suppose we have a bottleneck, where it turns out that rail is the best solution, but the resources for rail are gone, because we have already spent that money. What's the minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u100	I think we actually already have these problems in all three modes, because we already see that we are short of money in the long term. Both the Secretary of State and I have already indicated that we cannot even pay for all the wishes contained in the coalition agreement with the resources we have now, nor with the 2 billion extra. We will therefore have to make that assessment with each other. Next week we will discuss this in the AO MIRT. By the way, this round of the MIRT is not so focused on investment decisions, but in the autumn we will have to make choices again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u101	With the whole list that the Minister just made on all the A-roads that are going to be tackled, I even thought that the AO MIRT might have become redundant, but let's leave it alone. I understand the Minister's point: we are short of money. But that's not my question. My question is this. The moment it turns out that track is the best solution, but we don't have any money in that track because, according to the old key, we're still thinking about stalls, what's the minister going to do? And then I get an integral answer from "we have that problem on all three points." Yeah, I understand that, but what are you gonna do when you run out of money, but it's the best solution? The question is, what is the Minister going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u102	The Secretary of State and I are now looking very closely at the bottlenecks that are also coming from the National Market and Capacity Analysis. That agreement is also in the coalition agreement. Furthermore, of course, we are also looking at what is still possible with co-financing from the region, so that you might just be able to get a particular project off the side, when you as a Empire alone would not be able to do it. So you have to look at the whole picture with each other. It's also a bit in the phaser. You cannot tackle everything in one region at the same time, because then it will no longer work in terms of flow. There are a lot of factors that influence this, but if it were to come to the conclusion that there would be no budget at all on any of the three modalities, when we agree that there is still a serious bottleneck in there somewhere that needs to be resolved, then we will have to discuss it with each other. But that situation is not going on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u103	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u104	I had stayed in the block about smart mobility and what we all do about it. I would like to mention, however, because I was also very pleased that the Secretary of State could send a positive message about rail freight transport. They see more potential in that now. I am pleased with that, because everything that can be done about goods by rail will provide more space on the road. That's how we try to help each other all the time. Being more efficient and safer on the road is, of course, also a very important one. The more information we have on this, the better it is, because 20% of all traffic jams are caused by accidents. So any accident we can avoid is helping again. We are also looking at innovative management and maintenance by increasingly using modern technology in the so-called smart maintenance. There are many more sensors everywhere, which indicate exactly when something needs to be replaced and so on. More efficient logistics is also extremely important. I actually mentioned that at the beginning in my introduction. If you have more data on what load is in which truck, you can also combine smarter, which means you have less empty trucks on the road again. Of course, we also have Talking Traffic, where we use smart traffic lights to ensure that you keep the lot moving as much as possible, because everyone would agree that traffic jams are also bad for the environment. Pulling up, braking, pulling up, braking is also bad for your emissions. So all we can do to allow traffic to flow more smoothly is also for the environment, for emissions profit. Yesterday I was in Gothenburg at the high-level meeting on smart mobility. I made a call to the industry that was also represented there, from: boys, make sure that everything we have is actually applied. For example, look what people already have in their cars for smart techniques, whether it's about keeping the distance, the cruise control or staying within the lines. A lot of people don't even know what they already have in their cars, and that's because when they buy that car they are not properly informed, not well supervised. I have also called for this: work on it, make sure that all the gadgets we have can also be used by people. Last week I was allowed to attend the 135-year anniversary of the ANWB. Of course, I talked to them about this. They have a lot more members than all our political parties together, and with that they have a very good opportunity to constantly inform their members about new developments, to stimulate cycling and so on. Luckily, they do. Then I come to the more specific questions. Questions have been asked about the peaks. Why is that research on those peaks taking so long, was actually the question. In the coming years, the implementation of existing projects has already transformed 25% of the current peak lanes into regular lanes. Now we are looking at additional possibilities on top of that, to permanently open up even more peaks. We're looking at where that can be done with minimal adjustment to road design. Then, of course, you have to look carefully at what that does for road safety, the perception of road users, effects on air quality and noise. This is especially true for the sections where the section is located on the left. The investigation will be completed in September. I think that is a bright spot for Mr Van Aalst, because it is his motion that called for it. It will thus also be able to be used as input for the second tranche of short-term measures, the 60 million that has not yet been invested. Then there is a point that many of you have also drawn attention to: how can it be that there are such large differences between the figures on the files of RWS and the ANWB? That was exactly the question I had when I first saw the coverage of the ANWB. We immediately consulted with the ANWB. I can also tell you that this consultation is still continuing, because I very much agree with you that we should really want to strive for clarity, both in definitions of what is a traffic jams and from when you speak of a traffic jams, but also in what figures you take with you. We are still talking to them about that, also with the KiM, which, of course, approaches it from the scientific point of view, to ensure that you can continue to compare figures well over the years. We also involve them, so that we can eventually come to good comparable data with each other. So that's what we're working on. I'll give you one nuance. It is said that you are only looking at the main road network. That is, of course, because we, as the Empire, will be focusing our investments on the bottlenecks on the main road network, as well as on the MIRT. For the underlying road network, of course, the drivers there, of the provinces, have the role to monitor that piece properly, because that is what they need to invest in. But that doesn't change the fact that we're going to look together with the ANWB and the KiM to see how we can give a general picture of file printing, fileswaart and travel time loss, so we don't constantly have a Babylonian confusion about when it's a file or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u105	I just want to make it clear that I understood the Minister correctly. Of course, we have N-roads that are just national responsibility. In my opinion, we now sometimes have examples of A-roads that fall outside the NMCA or the File Top 50 but which, if we were to invest in an approach in conjunction with that N-road, could yield a huge return. That is a bit of the attention that we, as PVV, are calling for: look now and include that underlying network in relation to the double effective measures. Does the Minister agree with me that we should look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u106	That's exactly why we and RWS are looking at what you can do with that Floating Car Data, with that data of everything that's going on, to be able to launch more thorough analyses on that too. But we are also talking to the KiM about this: what is the reliability and quality of what data and what exactly can you use for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u107	I also asked a question about this aspect, in particular about the A67. How can it be that the traffic figures and the traffic congestion experience are so different? Could that be due to the fact that detection loops are less present there than on other roads? Because you would indeed expect that, if you have the right data and sufficient of such loops, you can achieve very good, responsible figures. Then it all has to be very easy to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u108	I'm just checking to see if I have any specific answers on the amount of loops in the A67. I don't see it in my papers, but I'll check it out, otherwise I'll come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u109	Let's get back to that underlying road network. Well, that's important. I hope we look at it in its entirety, because I know of situations where the highway is now flowing along nicely, but that is purely because there is tour dosing and you just don't get on the highway from the N-road anymore. There are plenty of examples in the country of Zoetermeer, near Culemborg where that is the case. Then there's 10 kilometers of traffic on an N-road. We must continue to look at this in full with those road managers who are responsible for those N-roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u110	I very much agree with Mr Dijkstra. There is another important reason why we need to do this very well and very carefully: we are going to decide with you on what roads the truck tax will apply. We have learned from the Belgian example that if you do that too scary, so only on the main road network, you get movement, which gives shortcuts on the underlying road network. So, together with the regional authorities, we will have to take a real look at this and make this comprehensive assessment. That's all the more reason to figure it out. Then Mr Van Aalst drew attention to the garbage collectors. "Can't we try to get them all out of rush hour?" I think we all recognize the example that you're driving into a street somewhere, a garbage truck in front of you where you can't pass and can't go backwards either. I actually believe that most services, probably all, are trying to plan it as well as possible. I therefore honestly assume that other governments have this high on the agenda. In fact, Mr Van Aalst also asks whether we can not use additional maintenance teams on the left and right to solve all kinds of malfunctions more quickly. That is a valid point. We'll do that when we need to. Now, for example, at the Van Brienenoord bridge, there is such a vulnerable point, continuously a mechanic standing by. If there is something there, the pager goes off so to speak and then can immediately be pulled out to resolve the situation on the spot. So we do that especially in strategic areas that are really trouble-prone. In cases where that is not the case, we simply have standard maintenance contracts. Then there are questions from Mr Sienot about the mountainers who could initially protect themselves, that is to say, about the mountainers who protect the mountainers. It is of the utmost importance that the work site is secured. I was once able to ride with a road inspector and had a visit with the associations of mountaineers. They gave me a set of pictures that made you very upset when you saw them. Those were all cases where people thought they had to drive across the escape lane and ignore red crosses. Hats off for those people who have to take all those bad luck off the road every day. So it really has to be safe. Rijkswaterstaat is now together with the salvagers exploring the situations in which they can solve that. And it's especially on the underlying road network again on the highways it's all a bit easier to get an RWS inspector quickly. So we're inventorying the best places to allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u111	Look, if these mountaineers just know by default that they can do this, they can prepare for it and invest in it. That's the big advantage of that. Now they are often approached at peak moments, so when there are too few inspectors from the Empire to do it, but yes, then it is busy for them too. I therefore believe that it is very important for the fight against congestion, which we are discussing today, to conclude this well and quickly. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u112	I certainly agree with Mr Sienot. So we'll do that reconnaissance with them, too. There are quite a few legal difficulties in the sense of being insured and so on, so we have to weigh that very carefully. Anyway, I couldn't agree more. The salvagers want it for themselves. They have asked for it, so they are certainly motivated to complete the investigation with us quickly. Then you have asked the question why the salvagers are only on standby at those twenty locations from 1 April 2019. Can't we do that before winter? That has to do with how we all arranged it in the Netherlands. The new contracts with the salvagers will start on 1 April 2019. That call for tender is now in progress. We can take those 20 locations into that. But, yes, such a procurement process takes time. That's why we couldn't do that before winter. Then Mr Laçin explicitly asked whether we were prepared to speak with employers to formulate their approach to behaviour. Mr Sienot has also asked questions about this. I think that fits perfectly into what I call the 'total approach'. Employers play a very important role, both in the transport of their goods and in how they deal with their employees. I think we're really gonna go through with that line. The Mobility Alliance is also very willing to think about this. In the past, good results have been achieved, especially with regard to goods, but also with persons. From what I have already noticed in contacts with employers, I have good hope that we will be able to show you some good examples of employers' willingness to think with us in the coming year. What are we already doing in the context of the Better Benutten programme? We've already done some high-tech projects. Two of them are still running. There is still a high-speed transport project around the Waalbrug and a peak-avoidance project around the southern ring Groningen. We will, of course, also inform you more about this through the regions. Mr Van Aalst asked whether the 60 million from Better Benutten could not be better spent on, if I sum up it very briefly, more asphalt. Part of that will certainly be the case, but once again, I will come back to the overall approach. Talking Traffic, those smarter traffic lights, for example, is going to really help, as well as opening the peak lanes longer. That's all gonna be part of it. I intend to inform you exactly about that second tranche after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u113	I welcome this answer. That was actually a bit what I expected, that the 60 million will be used for direct, hard traffic control and not for indirect, hopeless projects, experiments, you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u114	In any case, we're not going to put money into unchuckled projects. I think that's a very good goal. Then Mr Dijkstra had a very specific question, or rather a kind of mission. Can the Minister not do something about the traffic jams caused by the German Sundays and holidays, because the lorries are not allowed to go on the road? Mr Von Martels mentioned the A67. Of course, that is one of the examples where this really leads to serious problems, where you will see a wall of trucks parked in the parking lane, with all the road safety risks that this entails. I'd like to take on that challenge. I say immediately that I do not know whether the Germans will be very receptive to this, but I am going to argue for it, because I very much agree with you that it is a very big problem that they are putting us up with, which we are suffering from, because of course we are on important transit routes. As a result, the situation on our side of the border, especially when there are many holidays in a row, stands still for a long time. Mr Von Martels asked about the state of the art of cycling. Since the Secretary of State has just sent you a letter on the bike and we will be at the AO MIRT together next week, I would suggest that you pass on that question to Mr Van Veldhoven, so that she can answer it herself next week. 'Cause, of course, she's very tight in it. Mr Von Martels also asked about the opportunity to optimize incident management. Rijkswaterstaat has already started the introduction of smart cameras. They can be used to spot incidents and traffic jams earlier. This can lead to major improvements, because every minute we get there before can prevent three to five minutes of extra traffic. So you really have a point when you say that every minute of profit we gain from that incident management is of great value. Rijkswaterstaat has also started to predict the locations of the necessary deployment of road inspectors based on algorithms. So we will also use artificial intelligence to try to identify patterns earlier, so that we can also act faster in a dynamic model. Then I guess, Mr. Chairman, I've had the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u115	Let me take a look at the Members to see if that is indeed the case. Mr. Laçin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u116	I had asked a specific question about leaving public transport to the market. As a result, bus lines disappear, while they are a good alternative to the car. I didn't get a specific answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u117	No. There I would like to propose the same thing as what I just suggested to Mr von Martels about the bike. Since public transport is also the portfolio of the Secretary of State and we will have the general consultation MIRT next week, I would like to propose that this question be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u118	It seems to me a sensible proposal that Mr Laçin should hold on to this question for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u119	I do not know, because I see it as a solution to the problem of congestion and that is what we are talking about today. I wonder if the Minister sees public transport as one of the solutions. I think that's what she's saying. How can we keep those bus lines and bus transport? I know that, but I would like to hear what the Minister thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u120	The general answer is that, of course, I also consider the use of public transport to be very important in helping to combat congestion. This applies both to rail and bus transport, but that also applies to the Mobility as a Service projects, which the Secretary of State is also working on. This is about all kinds of opportunities created by new smart technology in the field of pupil and target transport to maintain a form of public transport in rural areas too, precisely because the car is otherwise the only way to save it, because there is no possibility of laying down heavy rail infrastructure in rural areas. So I agree with Mr Laçin on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u121	The Minister spoke a lot of fine words about dealing with traffic jams and also gave a lot of answers. In the midst of all these answers, I may have missed it, but I did not hear whether she agreed that we should participate in the national traffic-free day, precisely because it could be such a beautiful symbol in the sense that we are going to do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u122	The national traffic-free day is in itself a very nice endeavour. Let me take a look at what's underneath for activities. Then I will return to that same general discussion MIRT. I can't see exactly what that would mean to us right now. Yeah? In the meantime, I can also answer the question about the A67. That is the road, as I just said, with a lot of freight traffic, that long wall of trucks. There's 40% freight on that. That's actually the Betuwe route for freight traffic. This also determines the traffic congestion experience to an important extent; here you come with those definitions again. That's because people also find it extremely scary to insert in and out between those trucks. It does give the idea that there is a traffic jam, while perhaps there is only a traffic jam of trucks, where you can drive by in itself, but where it is very scary to go in between. That image is actually coming from the exploration that is now running. But that reconnaissance hasn't been completed yet. Once that is the case, we have a really good overview. I hope I have answered the questions now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u123	Yeah, it looks that way. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would ask Members to begin with their second term. Mr Van Aalst is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. I have the impression that the Minister is aware of the seriousness of the fight against congestion. I am particularly pleased that the second tranche of 60 million really goes to direct traffic control. That's gonna work. Mr. Chairman. I still have two motions to urge the Minister to do more. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a difference between the traffic figures of the ANWB and those of the Rijkswaterstaat;]] [[noting that in its letter of 30 April last year the Minister indicated that he was in talks with the ANWB on the background to the traffic figures of the ANWB and the traffic figures of the Rijkswaterstaat;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for policy-makers, road managers and road users to have uniform, unambiguous traffic jams;]] [[calls on the Government, through consultation between the Ministry of LenW, Rijkswaterstaat, Knowledge Institute Mobility and the ANWB, to establish a set of uniform, unambiguous traffic figures, and to inform the Chamber of Members of the Office by the end of the 2019 lenW budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Aalst and Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31305-253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has already said something about public services which often cause congestion. Hence my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that garbage collection services and municipal street sweepers used during peak hours often cause congestion;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the implementation of such services outside peak hours,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31305-254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u126	Mr. Chairman. I am very excited about the fact that the Minister expressed so much commitment to work on traffic jams in all kinds of ways. I think it is indeed a total package. Parisians shouldn't have to be in traffic. We need to use all kinds of resources to do this. It's nice to just add that total soccer feeling from 1974. In order to stay in that same spirit I also really hope that we have the spirit of together, who for example in '74 so ruled I have been told that; I myself had 2............................................................................................................................................... That is why I would like to say again: thank you for coming back to this National File-Free Day. I have heard that you also want to work with the Mobility Alliance, but I think that, continuing the whole debate on this subject, we should be as concrete and clear as possible. That's what it turned out to be today. That's why I'd like to file this motion anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government agreement includes that pilots are being carried out in this cabinet period together with the Mobility Alliance to gain experience of alternative forms of transport and payment, without leading to a system of charging;]] [[Whereas drivers may be tempted to change their travel behaviour to reduce traffic congestion in the coming years;]] [[Whereas, therefore, it is now important to complete and implement this plan from the coalition agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the implementation of this agreement in the government agreement before the budgetary procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31305-255]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u127	If the Mobility Alliance were to point out that forms of charging or rush tax are one of the pilots that could be investigated, is that simply on the table as far as Mr Sienot is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u128	We can do this game over and over again. Then the answer will always be that we have a framework within the coalition agreement. Mrs Kröger has read that phrase and we have read it. Our signature's underneath. I would like to leave it at that for the moment. I think that statement is clear. How we proceed with this is precisely what this motion is for, so that we can get the hell out of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u129	Get the fuck out of here. The phrase raises questions, because it concerns the introduction of a system of road pricing. That is what the government agreement is absolutely clear about. It just doesn't say that this means that the next few years shouldn't be used, especially if it comes from civil society players, to get real experience of driving in a pilot form. Does Mr Sienot believe that that is what it says, so that that is excluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u130	I understand that question very well, of course. That is why I tabled this motion. I would like to point out to Mrs Kröger that the government agreement also states that we are doing it together with the Mobility Alliance. In the Mobility Alliance, there is a wide variety of thinking about such a thing as charging. You have also just heard my colleague from the VVD, Mr Dijkstra. He explained that we must ensure that double accounts are created. We want it to be a system with support, with which tests are carried out. How exactly can we do that, how can we do that and what is or is not covered by it? I believe that the Minister, together with the ANWB, the RAI Association and all kinds of other parties, is in the process of giving them clear wine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u131	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. I call Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I think this is a good debate anyway, because we see that we are on the way but that we need more and that we need to stay sharp all the time, and that is the en-en-story, but also that asphalt works where it is needed. We have heard a number of speakers. The economic damage is leading me. I would like to emphasise that we can test this on the basis of objective data thanks to our National Market and Capacity Analysis, thanks to the File Top Twenty that Transport and Logistics Netherlands has and thanks to a filetop of the ANWB. When I put it over each other, I notice that they actually connect seamlessly. You also see things disappearing from that traffic jam top 20 and the other thing coming back in there. That means it's a continuous process. As far as freight transport is concerned, I support the Minister. This morning we had colleagues from North Rhine-Westphalia visiting all major parties. They indicated that the same problem existed in Germany. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that trucks are not allowed to drive on the German motorways on Sundays and public holidays;]] [[Whereas this means, in particular, that heavy goods vehicles will be traffic jams on Dutch escape lanes for public holidays until they are allowed to cross the border;]] [[calls on the Minister to use bilaterally a structural solution for border traffic jams through the German ban on heavy goods vehicles on Sundays and public holidays,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31305-256]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u133	I think it's complicated, just because it's about Sundays and holidays, but I think we should try, and we're good neighbors too. I wish the Minister every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mr. Dijkstra. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just one more quote from Einstein: "We can't solve a problem with the way of thinking it's caused." That is why I really ask the Minister and also the parties that are part of this cabinet to go with an open mind to do those pilots. Those were two English terms in a row; excuses; and to really use this period to try out things that could really work to fight traffic. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas no single prescription is going to provide the solution for the traffic jams;]] [[Whereas the coalition agreement allows for studies and experiments on behaviour and pricing;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss alternative forms of payment to use with relevant social parties, without precluding options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31305-257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u136	Mr. Chairman. We were talking about total football. I think it's a nice metaphor, because you can put a lot of things underneath it. We were also talking about the 1970s. That's when it was invented. Then we had 2 million cars in the Netherlands and much fewer people. Now we have 8 million cars. Doesn't it make sense for your infrastructure to grow with the demand and need at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u137	In a country such as ours, with our size and our number of inhabitants, it seems logical to me that we organise mobility in such a way that it remains within the limits of climate, CO emissions, air quality, health effects and economic effects of, for example, being in the pile. At the moment we are not doing enough as far as I am concerned. We can see this from the fact that we are still not achieving European air quality standards. We can see that by the fact that we have to make an incredible catch-up in the area of climate, and we can see that by the fact that we have a problem of congestion. As far as I am concerned, we are really going to look at these solutions by also making sure that people go less by car and certainly less by car at times when a lot of people want to go by car. Hence my request to experiment in width and therefore also to look at a rush tax. I am using my last 28 seconds to say that as a committee we can also go through a transition in the sense that we really dare to think that asphalt is the solution, as Mr Dijkstra has often said in this debate. We need to look at policies that steer in the best way of transport rather than just more asphalt claps at a time when there are traffic jams. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u138	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I call Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u139	Thank you, Mr President. The whole history passed again: 1879 Einstein born; in 1974 the World Cup football. But we must, above all, look to the future today, of course. From A to B and from B to even better. That's actually what we want. I liked to hear the Minister say that incident management needs to be improved on a structural basis. I fully support that. It's nice that steps are being taken to do that. I do have one more question and it focuses on the overall approach. Bad weather conditions also affect traffic congestion. Effects of bad weather on file formation can be addressed. The double layer zoob is much better in bad weather and it also reduces noise. Are there any traffic-sensitive roads where there isn't a double layer of zoob? That is a very technical question, but you will have time to think about it later. And hopefully when I look at my computer screen in the morning, it says: file not found. That's the future I'd really like to go to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u140	Thank you. Finally, Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I welcome the Minister's commitment to talk to employers about their role and responsibility in solving the problem of congestion. Several parties referred to this. So I wonder what the Minister will do and I also ask if she will keep us informed of what employers see as their role in this whole. I would like to come back to the Mobility Fund. We think it is extremely important, and we hear all the parties saying that there is no one solution. We need to look comprehensively at solutions to certain bottlenecks. Once again, we think that the resources we have for this should not be divided into bulkheads in advance, but that we should simply look at what the solution is and what the budget is for it, regardless of the bulkheads we have. I will not table a motion on that. I want to say it again. I'm gonna file one motion. It's about public transport. I asked because public transport is good for public transport as far as we are concerned, while maintaining bus lines. It is important that people outside the Randstad, where there are not many alternatives, should not be chased back into the car. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that seducing people to take other means of transport than cars, such as local transport, is a way of combating congestion;]] [[Whereas the operation of the market in regional transport has led to a reduction in the supply of bus services;]] [[Whereas this puts pressure on one of the alternatives to the car in many places;]] [[calls on the government to consult with local authorities to maintain local bus lines so that people are not forced to catch the car,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31305-258]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u143	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u144	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the second term and the motions. I have a specific question on the part of Mr von Martels. Are there any traffic-sensitive roads on which there is no two-layer zoob? The answer to this is that there are very certain. By default we just build zoob, in which there is more space to drain the water properly. Two-ply zoab the real quiet asphalt is only built where specific noise reduction is required. We only apply this to parts where it is necessary as an additional noise measure. Most of it isn't. Then I'll get to the motions. The first motion deals with the differences between the ANWB and RWS file figures. The motion calls on the government to establish consultations between RWS, KiM and ANWB in order to arrive at a uniform set of traffic figures. If I may see it as an effort to try to get out of it all together, I would like to give a ruling to the Chamber. I understand the need for the unambiguous figures, but I do not have any strings attached to the bodies, so I cannot guarantee that we agree on the 2019 budget. At least I'd like to be very committed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u146	I do not want to impose any prior restrictions on the Minister, so the motion can be seen as an effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u147	Then on this motion I can give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u148	Yes. The motion in part No. 253 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u149	Then there is the second motion in part No. 254, also by Mr Van Aalst, who looks at the garbage collection services. In principle, I am not talking about that, because we as the Empire do not have our own garbage collection services. I would actually like to take this as a standing policy so that I can take over the motion, because we are already doing that. We have discussed these issues with the VNG and the IPO. I don't see her as anything that adds anything, and then I could take her over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u150	Is there any objection from one of the Members that this motion should be taken over? That is the case, so it cannot be taken over and it is up to Mr Van Aalst to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u151	Then the motion gets dissuaded because I'm not in charge of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u152	Then the motion to part No. 255.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u153	That is the motion by Mr Sienot and Mr von Martels. I can judge Chamber on this motion because I would like to put into practice the proactivity that I am being asked to do so in order to be able to show good examples of this quickly. The Mobility Alliance is also motivated, so please judge Chamber on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u154	Judge Chamber on the third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u155	I shall now turn to Mr Dijkstra's motion for a resolution. 256. In the first term, I have already indicated that the problem is very recognizable. I ask Mr Dijkstra whether I can take this as an effort, because I cannot guarantee that the Germans will immediately agree with us. If this is the case, I'd like to give a ruling on this Chamber. If your Chamber thinks that I should move in the direction of the Germans, I will gladly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u156	I see Mr Dijkstra nodding in agreement, so we can take it that way. Motion in part No. 256 gets judgment, too, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u157	I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 257 by Mrs Kröger. It will not surprise her that I say that I want to discourage it, because of the passage that says that no options are excluded in advance. With the coalition agreement in hand, of course, we do exclude the option of charging. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then I come to the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u158	The motion in part No. 257 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u159	Then the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). However much I agree with him that public transport, including bus transport, plays a very important role in mobility, I would nevertheless like to advise against the motion. Firstly, I do not agree with the second recital, which states that market forces in regional transport have led to a distortion of supply. Secondly, I do not agree with the request because it calls for local bus lines to be maintained. Our commitment is not specifically focused on bus lines, but on maintaining mobility and accessibility for people. Maybe we should have a bus line, maybe we can do it later with a Mobility as a Service package. That's what we're focusing on. We do not want a conservation obligation for each individual bus line. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u160	The motion in part No. 258 gets dissuaded from judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u161	The Minister says that it did not, as far as she is concerned, lead to a reduction in the offer. Let me give you a concrete example. July 22nd, the new concession will enter Noord-Holland. That's where 11 bus lines disappear. So these people are just being chased into the car. And that is the problem we are discussing here. To say right now that it doesn't add up... I'm not just saying it. A lot of bus lines have disappeared. A lot of people can't take a bus anymore and have to take the car. That is why we have a debate here. I call on the Minister to look a little more broadly. Since we are talking about this problem, we should also talk to the local authorities about how public transport can be maintained, so that we can reduce this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u162	Of course, there are always examples, excuse me, in which it leads to a discrepancy in some place. But there are also examples where it has indeed led to an improvement for people in certain regions. I have problems with the general statement that it has always led to a discrepancy. That is not the case. I stand by the position to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u163	This brings us to the end of the government's second term. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u164	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 7 p.m.
