ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	We now turn to Mr Van Rooijen's question on behalf of 50PLUS about the news that pension fund ABP extends the ANWB-... I mean the Anw compensation until 1 May 2018. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	Speaking is human, including me. Mr President, thank you. First of all, thanks to Minister Ollongren for answering the questions of the 50PLUS and CDA groups on the abolition of the Anw compensation scheme by ABP. On 15 December, I was the first to ask questions about the abolition of the Anw compensation scheme by ABP. The criticism was mainly about the speed of abolition and the lack of communication. Participants did not receive a letter about this until December. Especially incurable sick people are deeply concerned that their partner, if he or she is left alone, has to live on an income below the poverty line. An absolute blunder, according to pension lawyer Theo Gommer in Radar. This just can't be. If I had been the boss, I would have spent one to two years communicating this properly. Wortmann acknowledged that ABP has choked on this: how we communicate, and the time we spend on this has to be really better next time; we are going to learn from this. For my group, this was, of course, an inadequate response. She is talking about better communication in the face of a new problem, but we are talking about a solution to this problem now. I am pleased that the abolition of the Anw compensation scheme will be postponed for a few months. However, that solution is not enough. Last week, during the debate on our own initiative proposal on a temporary basis in the interest rate, Mr Omtzigt noted that this would affect the people affected up to many hundreds of euros a month and that the coulance regime would not do anything about it. Of course, most people can take out death insurance, but this alternative is very expensive when you're a little older and impossible or priceless when you're sick. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. Does the Minister recognise that the death risk insurance premium for many older people is so high that it is virtually impossible to cover the loss of the Anw compensation in this way? If not, why not? Two. Does the Minister recognise that the disappearance of the Anw compensation for younger ABP participants is less significant because they can take out alternative insurance on more attractive terms because of their age? Do you think that's a fair way of doing things? Mr. Chairman. Finally. Can the Minister confirm that the additional three-month period given is used to develop a new collective insurance offer to replace the current Anw compensation scheme, as suggested by ABP chairman Corien Wortmann-Kool? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	I thank Mr Van Rooijen for asking these and earlier questions. I think it's good to have a clear picture of what happened. Look, there's an agreement last July between employees and employers on simplifying the ABP pension scheme. In this agreement, it was agreed, among other things, that the partnership and orphan's pensions should be extended as of 1 January this year and that the entitlement to Anw compensation should be abolished for new cases. However, that decision by the social partners was inspired by the signal from the ABP that this scheme was no longer feasible. So that was an important reason for that. I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen that the coverage and communication have been unfortunate. This was also discussed by employees and employers, and they also asked the ABP to correct and improve this. They also agreed with the ABP to extend the coulance scheme for a number of months, until 1 May of this year. That gives people extra time to take out insurance collectively or individually. This can also be done at sectoral level if you wish. All in all, therefore, I believe that employees and employers, in consultation with the ABP, have responded in a fairly balanced manner to the criticism of the expiry of the Anw compensation and its communication. Having said that, I also think it is important to point out that, I would almost say, poignant cases, so those for whom it is very difficult or perhaps impossible to provide supplementary insurance because of their age or because of illness, are eligible for an exemption. They therefore retain the right to that Anw compensation, in accordance with the old conditions. That's just to outline the whole thing. Mr. Chairman. Now I am in injury time, but I am going to answer Mr Van Rooijen's questions very briefly. There could certainly be cases where this is hard for someone. That is why we also offer the extra time, the coulance scheme and the possibility for people to take advantage of this extra time to see if additional insurance is needed or desirable. I think that the intervention as such should be done, also because of its feasibility, and that the ABP should as much as possible accommodate the people for whom this is really a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. "In injury time" I heard the Minister say. We are concerned with the main issues and not with what is happening on the edge. In fact, I find the Minister's answer totally unsatisfactory. First of all, we find the problems of implementation of the ABP which we do not know in detail, but which we have been aware of, insufficient reason for such a far-reaching measure. Maybe the Minister can point that out a little bit more. Finally, the following two questions. Because it is about the ABP, the Minister is one of the two social partners. I would like to emphasise that. The Minister is therefore fully co-responsible as one of the two social partners, because this is about the ABP and not about another pension fund. I repeat the question I also put in writing: is the Minister prepared to urge the ABP not to extend the scheme by three months but at least 12 months, so that there is plenty of time for social partners, including yourself, to prepare an alternative collective insurance offer for all ABP participants? Finally, Mr President. Is the Minister at least prepared to urge the ABP to further postpone the abolition of the Anw compensation scheme, at least until a decent insurance alternative has been offered to participants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u6	We have generally seen that if we do not take implementation problems seriously, we will regret it later. I think that implementation problems are a serious problem. The ABP has indicated that it is there, also because of its relationship with the SVB. That's really a factor to take into account. Mr Van Rooijen also asks whether we cannot extend it. It's been extended by four months now, but he suggests doing so by 12 months. It's not even May 1st. Of course, the ABP takes note of the concern expressed by Mr Van Rooijen, but I am prepared to ask the ABP if that extension has proved sufficient, so that we know that this time has been used to see how additional insurance can be provided individually or collectively. So I do not want to anticipate that now, but take it back with me, to check whether further extension is necessary or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u7	The APB has implemented this scheme for fifteen years, so it is quite remarkable that it cannot be implemented in the sixteenth year at once, but it is good. If you are retired and your partner doesn't have an AOW yet, you may miss €900 per month from a benefit that was normally €1,600 or €1,700. Your benefit is therefore more than halved by the total loss of this Anw compensation. That means your partner will end up below the level of welfare if he dies. That's what these people are afraid of. In the Civil Code, Part 7, Article 977 (1)...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Overzigt, the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u9	It says you can't cancel risk insurance unilaterally. Is this a risk insurance scheme, and can the ABP unilaterally cancel it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u10	It is a responsibility of employers and employees to agree on this together. That's what they did last July. Their effects are being faced. It is now being taken into account. That is why extra time is being taken and there is a coulance regulation. But it's a mutual arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr Omtzigt, second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u12	It is a very specific question. A car insurance or any other risk insurance policy should not be unilaterally terminated in the Netherlands. There are very good reasons for this, because people are not insured at once. According to the ABP, Anw-Hiate Insurance is a risk insurance policy. So, according to the Civil Code, you can't cancel it. Is a pension fund allowed to do so, or what is the exception that would result in these people losing more than half in one go? If you don't know the answer now, I'd like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u13	I have just given my answer: this is linked to the agreement between employers and employees on the simplification of the ABP pension scheme. I am prepared to take Mr Omtzigt's specific question on the type of insurance and to inform him about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u14	Pensions are something we do together: sharing together, young and old, healthy not-healthy. People are deeply concerned that the loss of the Anw compensation will prevent them from taking out insurance, or very high premiums, because they may not be so healthy. In retirement country, we solve this together, with collective insurance. Is the Minister prepared to look into this in her employers' role and to deal with social partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u15	In reply to Mr Van Rooijen's question, I have just argued that precisely those cases which are now being described are subject to the coulance regime. So for people with a disease or who cannot actually take out other insurance because of old age, the scheme remains as it is. So that's not really happening. At least, it should not occur according to the agreements made in relation to this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u16	A reduction in the survivor's pension has a significant impact on a particular group of people. The Minister is in charge of the ABP. Could it not commit itself much more firmly to the ABP and insist that compensation be settled, at least for 12 months? Why couldn't you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u17	I am responsible for a number of sectors. The ABP has a number of sectors in which I am also responsible as a minister. In that sense, I am involved on the employers' side in these kinds of discussions, but, again, this is an agreement between employers on the one hand and employers on the other hand with the ABP on their arrangement. I have just said, in reply to Mr Van Rooijen, that if the four-month extension as planned would not be enough, we should, of course, look at it, but first I would like to know whether what was intended to be achieved with those four months, namely supplementary insurance, collective or individual, has been sufficiently achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you.
