ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u1	I would ask Members to take their seats. The next item is the budget for Infrastructure and Water State, including the Infrastructure Fund. It is a question of continuing the treatment. We have already had the first term on the side of the Chamber. The question now arises of the response of the two heads of government. I would like to welcome the Minister and Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State. Of course, welcome to members and support. Welcome to the people who follow this debate in the public gallery and those who follow the debate in a different way. You're very welcome. Many questions were answered in writing at the beginning of the evening. The directors have indicated that they will also answer a number of questions orally. I understand this is going to take place in cubes. So I'm gonna ask you both to tell me which cubes you're gonna use. Members will then be able to take this into account in their interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u2	After all these household announcements, I am going to give the floor to the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, many thanks to the Members of Parliament for their input and their questions in the first term. In particular, I would like to congratulate Mrs Teunissen of the Animal Party on her very well-executed maiden speech. Welcome, also on our behalf, to this beautiful house of parliamentary democracy. I'll start with a general introduction and then I'll deal with the questions in five cubes. The first block is weighing. Then the block of road safety comes. Then the block of aviation. Then maritime and then I have a block left, where I'm going to discuss some other subjects, which are a bit more general, including the ILT, for example. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the introduction. It is the second time that the Secretary of State and I have been here to deal with our budget in your Chamber. That in itself feels very familiar, while it is only our first real own budget. Last time was the budget of the previous cabinet. Something happened back then. The Ministry has changed its name. "Environment" has disappeared out of the name, but I would like to mention immediately: from the name, but not from our heart. What has had a real impact on our ministry over the past year is that it has not only stayed with the name change, but that colleagues have left from our ministry to the Ministry of EZK, and part to BZK. That's quite a cut-in on our ministry and for some employees that has resulted in a tough time. We are pleased that we have managed to manage this. Everyone's back in place and back to work. But it has had a real impact on the people. Well, that's all we need to remember about this year. We do things differently, too. We have received EUR 2 billion to catch up with the investments in our infrastructure. Safe and fast from A to B: that is the goal. Comfortable and durable and with as little nuisance as possible for the environment. We take this into account more strongly than before. If you look at aviation, for example, I will come back to this later in block 3 of course, and you will see that for the first time we are opting for interference control as a guide rather than the number of flight movements. And it's crowded everywhere. This applies on the road, in the train, on the bike paths and also in the aircraft. In fact, all Members of Parliament have considered this in their contributions. Fortunately, we're back from the crisis. This is indeed the reason for economic growth. Mobility strengthens that prosperity. That is the good news of this story, but on the other hand it is the hustle and bustle that makes it all hands on deck to manage the growth of mobility that comes with it. If you produce more goods, they need to be transported. If more people have a job, they have to travel to and from that job. If people have more to spend, they can also do more on their way, to family and fun things. All this brings with it more mobility and therefore more traffic jams. That is why we have a congestion approach for both the long and the short term and we also invest a lot in innovation in public transport and, of course, in cycling. Of course, my colleague will tell you everything about this later. An important change is also that not the modality, the form of transport, is central, but the user and the journey from door to door. One of the actions is to transform the Infrastructure Fund into a Mobility Fund, with no divisions between these separate modes of transport, road, water and transport. And we've already started extensive MIRT explorations and field programs across these different modes of transport. And we will, of course, be able to discuss this much more with you when we have the MIRT note-consultation. A new choice of this cabinet is also to put road safety at the top of the agenda. The number of victims has to be reduced again, because it is not a question of figures. It is about human lives and a great deal of suffering that is hidden behind it. That is why zero victims are the new target. That's ambitious, because you'll never make it. We all know that, but it has to be the endeavor of what you're doing. Together with municipalities, provinces, road users themselves and parties such as the ANWB, Safe Traffic Netherlands, the Fietsersbond and also the insurers we pull everything out of the closet. In my second block, I will go into that further in a moment. I would also like to say something here about new behaviour in traffic. Like many of you, who have also pointed that out, I really don't understand how it would occur to someone to shoot an accident with a phone. Even if someone needs to be resuscitated, people are gonna put their cameras on top instead of helping. Mr Dijkstra and Mrs Van Brenk, among others, have asked further questions about this. That total, but also totally disrespectful behavior should not be tolerated with each other. And the same goes for ignoring a red cross and hitting an arrow car by a road inspector. I would just like to underline how serious it is. The Secretary of State and I and the officials at the Ministry regularly receive reports of accidents. Tonight, the message just came in that another car drove onto one of those collision absorbers. So it seems that it is also very necessary to put them there. But people just don't take it into account. I would like to mention the figures. This year, we've been hitting 14 cars by road inspectors. Those people must be able to feel safe and it is simply not acceptable. Furthermore, there were already 24 collisions with darts and impact absorbers. And then the year isn't over, huh? So this is about road deposits. It all falls into the "how do you get it in your head" category for me. We really need to put our hands on each other to deal with that. Mr. Chairman. I'm allowed to be a minister for a year now, and lately I've had some of those look-back sessions of: how did that first year go? I can at least tell you that it has been a very extreme year in terms of weather, because we have actually seen everything come along. We've had violent storms and high water. For the first time in history, all the storm surges were closed at the same time. Unfortunately, we have also had a record number of trucks turned over. We've had a lot of water pollution due to pressure showers and the driest and hottest summer in 40 years. And that is what I would like to come back to in detail in the Water legislative consultation on 26 November. Mrs Van Brenk has already asked a number of important questions about this, and I would like to address this in more detail during the legislative consultation on 26 November. I'm just gonna say it for the people who are interested. And what also struck me in that first year is the international leading role that the Netherlands has in many areas, for example in the areas of smart mobility, autonomous driving, smart shipping and drones. I've noticed that, whether you're at the Transport Council or you're being visited by a foreign delegation, a lot of foreign colleagues and other guests would like to talk to us about these issues, because we're playing a pioneering role. This makes us proud of the Netherlands and proud of our ministry and everything that goes with it, despite the great task we face. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, that was the general part. Now I want to start the first block, and that's the block. And yes, it's November. That is not only the time of the budgetary debates in this Chamber, but also the time of the great... I'll leave this as a cliff hanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u4	That's gonna be really exciting. Mr Van Raan has a question about the introduction, I understand. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u5	I'll be very brief, because we're all curious about the cliffhanger. Thanks for the first year show. What struck me is that the Minister described it again in the last point. She acted like it's some kind of force of nature that is completely separate from the influence of man. Does the Minister agree with me that this strange weather is to a large extent caused by human action, which is now established? I'd like to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u6	It is not surprising that Mr Van Raan is bringing that up, but I do not think he will be surprised to see that I fully agree with him because otherwise I would not have been so committed to putting the Global Commission on Adaptation on the world map, among other things. Let us discuss this further with each other in the Water legislative consultation. I shall come back to the fact that it is the month of November and that this is not only the month of the discussion of the IenW budget, but also, unfortunately, the time of the major traffic jams on the road. "Monsterfiles," as Mr Van Aalst called it, or, if you turn it around, Mr Dijkstra's file monster. Stand still leads to a lot of frustration and it also costs a lot of money. And we're not that quick to get rid of that crowd either, according to the latest predictions. All Members of Parliament have actually talked about this. That is why we also have a congestion approach in the short and long term. These are new connections and additional lanes, for the next 12 years at least 1,000 kilometres. This cabinet period I get to give the start for 600 kilometers. And asphalt works, as Mr Dijkstra and Mr Stoffer of the SGP supported with figures. It is also a question of rejuvenating and renewing old bridges and tunnels, of additional rescue teams which are moving accidents faster off the road and of additional road inspectors with the authority to issue fines, for example for driving under such a red cross or even reverse that we have also seen examples of this and leave the road over the escape strip. For this short-term traffic congestion approach, I have EUR 100 million available, but I would also like to add that I do not have a magic wand. I can't solve the traffic jams, but we'll do everything we can to keep it under control. Sustainability - I am looking at Mrs Dik-Faber, who also asked questions about this - is an important point. I can also tell you that we are already doing a lot about this. For example, along the A6 near Almere solar panels lie on our acreage and we do so in several places. At the Reevesluis at Kampen. I think that's a nice example of this.At the end of this year we will build the first circular viaduct. There too, in the circular economy, the Secretary of State and I are doing well together. And what's circular about that overpass? It is made up of a kind of lego blocks and therefore it can be put together, but also to separate and use again elsewhere. Another good example is that on the A58 between Oirschot and Best we will build an innovation strip in 2020 with which we will test with heat and energy from asphalt, sustainable sound screens and new lighting. I have many more examples, but I see that Mr Dijkstra has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u7	In the road block there is 100 million for the short-term traffic congestion approach. We are pleased with that. At the same time, we know, of course, that the Institute of Knowledge for Mobility has said that in the next five years, there may be a 35% increase in the value of files. That means if you're normally in the car for an hour, it'll be about an hour and twenty minutes. That's a hell of a lot. Would it help if we made additional money available also for this short-term traffic congestion approach? I am thinking, for example, of the EUR 30 million that we have in the budget of the Infrastructure Fund, page 111. Would it help to use that money, precisely in order to make the peaks wider, for signalling, marking and the like? Would extra money be a no matter where it comes from? Would it help to make that congestion approach, if necessary, more urgent and address the problem even more appropriately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u8	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u9	I think Mr Dijkstra can fill it out himself. If you have more money, you can always do more. You can't bring everything forward. Certainly the big projects are in the long term. But with more money, you can always do more. I would also like to remind you that the revenue from the truck tax is returned to innovation and greening of the sector. Among other things, Mr von Martels referred to this. I hope to be able to send the policy framework to the Chamber very soon, so that I can at least make the promise that it will happen this year. I come to a number of questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u10	Before you proceed, Mr Van Aalst would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u11	There was, of course, a nice debate yesterday about the truck tax. The PVV doesn't want a truck tax at all, but the VVD colleague said: I only want a truck tax if the return is 100% in the sector. Can the Minister guarantee that Mr Dijkstra will do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u12	I think I can indeed reassure Mr Dijkstra, because in the coalition agreement I was given the task of ensuring that the heavy goods vehicle tax comes back for a bit in a reduction of the vehicle tax, and that the rest, through an agreement with the sector, partly returns to innovation and partly to sustainability, and perhaps to a mixture of it. Of course, minus the costs, because it's about the proceeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u13	If I understand correctly, therefore, all the costs for the equipment and all the additional costs for the introduction of the truck charge will not be deducted from the revenue first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u14	That is what I am telling you: the costs will of course be deducted from them first, otherwise they will not be revenues either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u15	Okay. So soon we will put in €10 and we will get €8 back. Let me get this straight. That will be the 100% that the sector will get back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u16	Well, we don't know those price tags yet. I will be coming to the Chamber shortly with a proposal for that. But of course, you'll have to subtract your expenses first. Otherwise you also have no income and it would eventually become a kind of subsidy scheme, and that is not the intention. But that was never agreed and is not in the coalition agreement either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u17	The minister says she doesn't have a magic wand to solve the files. Can the Commission imagine that, in a very specific traffic situation, reducing the maximum speed could, in the short term, contribute to solving the problem of congestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u18	We always look at the overall picture at speed. For example, what does it do for sound? But we are also looking at the aspect of road safety. And of course we'll see what influence it has on the flow. An in-depth analysis is always carried out on each route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u19	Mrs Kröger's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u20	I refer to a very specific route, namely the A27. There is, of course, a plan at the expense of nature and there are many concerns about people living around. Is the Minister prepared to reduce the maximum speed there on a temporary basis and as an experiment, to see if this can help to alleviate the problem of congestion in part as a magic wand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u21	Mrs Kroger has just mentioned a road which has been studied for a very long time. Everything is well-balanced, so that's where we're just going to implement the plan as we agreed with each other. Several MPs, I believe from the CDA and the VVD, and also Mr Azarkan van DENK have asked the following question. Can we give market players an incentive to help solve the problem of congestion, for example by providing them with compensation if they come up with a proposal that works? Involving market players in solving the traffic jams is an interesting idea. We are always open to conversations with the market. We are in favour of it eventually leading to independent business cases, so business cases that can stand on their own feet. We are always ready to look at specific proposals and how we can help in doing so. We have applied this method before. For example, in the Better Benutten programme, we carried out a number of projects, in which employers and employees contributed by, for example, travelling outside rush hour or encouraging employees to take the bike more often. Market parties have also made an important contribution to this. Maybe it's interesting to know that I'm sending the evaluation of the Better Using Program to your room soon, so we can discuss it at the MIRT. You are also well aware of this, and I am talking to the Mobility Alliance about pilots in this context. As soon as it actually leads to pilots, we will, of course, inform you about it. A question from Mr Stoffer about the twenty strategic locations where we are going to set up salvagers so that they can clear the way faster in the context of incident management: can this be carried out quickly and do we have all the locations in view? Those 20 most sensitive file locations are gonna have salvagers standing by. We have window contracts for that. The new contracts will start on 1 April 2019. Then they'll actually all be on the spot. A question from Mr Van Aalst: how does the Minister look at the proposal to remove the subsidy for the innovation scheme, the Wbso, and to use it to tackle congestion problems on the main road network? I think innovation is important. I cannot, of course, make any specific comments on the effects of the scheme mentioned by the PVV. That's up to my colleague from EZK. For the time being, I welcome the 2 billion extra resources we have. This will enable us to launch projects to improve the flow in key areas. Among other things: the A15 Papendrecht-Gorinchem, the A2 Deil-Den Bosch and the A58 Breda-Tilburg. The effects of these new projects are not yet in the KiM figures; they only go until 2023. That is a real contribution to the long-term approach. By the way, there are other things that cannot yet be included, for example the new Blankenburg connection and the A24, which must also be delivered in '24. It's going to do a lot too, but it's not in the KiM's figures until 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u22	I'm thrilled the Minister's gonna mention the whole thing. We're happy about that, too. Only, we've cut 6 billion in recent years, and now we're bringing back 3 billion, and that means we're still 3 billion behind in making that catch-up at all. All the organisations that participate in the Mobility Alliance, the ANWB, TLN and so on, clearly indicate that we simply need 1 billion structuralally. Surely the Minister agrees with me that it's nice to be able to release that billion in this way? Innovation should be part of a company. I think that's going very well, too. But if we just make sure they're in traffic, there won't be much of those innovations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u23	I don't know if you can link that one-on-one, but that's not what your question is about. It is easy to put forward a proposal for cover that you know the rest of the Chamber does not support. I have not seen any other party here in the Chamber propose to abolish the Wbso regime altogether, so I do not think there will be much support for this. Should that be the case, should everyone say 'well, we do not need it anymore; we have an extra billion for infra', we will receive it with open arms, both the Secretary of State for rail and I for the road and the water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u24	I've heard colleagues, including the VVD, say: you have to make choices if you want extra things. The PVV now provides a clear coverage by making choices. We think that's a good idea. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has not yet been voted on. So I think it is special that the Minister has already made it clear which parties are in favour and which are not in favour. I do not think it is a chance to say that the majority of the House will support this. I don't think the bricklayer, the carpenter and the plumber want to be in traffic in the morning. We need to do this as soon as possible, to keep our economy running, rather than getting stuck in traffic. That can be done very well by destroying such an opportunityless innovation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u25	I did not say that the Chamber is not going to support this. Of course, I don't know. That's what the Chamber itself is about. All I have said is that I have not received a signal before that there would be parties outside yours who would like to delete the Wbso regime altogether. But I'll wait and see. That is, of course, up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u26	I'd like to go back to the Maut, the truck tax. I'm worried about that. I also studied Monday's first reports. I will come back to that in my second term. I have a few questions about it, too. I am very afraid that soon the N roads will be overloaded with freight traffic, or that trucks will be exchanged for small vans. We'll talk about that later. I have the next question. It is up to the sector to decide what it is they are going to spend it on. They have already made suggestions: reducing the size of the Marb, greening and sustainability of the fleet. But who is this sector? Are those the shippers, too? Are those the small parties, too? Or are only the big ones gonna do that? Can the Minister also promise that the Minister of Finance is not about to skim pieces, because it is such a beautiful pot of money? And are the other greening and incentive measures going to be intact in no time? These are important preconditions when we discuss them further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u27	That was actually three questions in one. I'm gonna be a little critical of the length of the interruptions, so I'm gonna say to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u28	I can reassure Mr Dijkstra: I am really going to do it as stated in the coalition agreement. Mr Dijkstra asked: who is this sector? I can assure you that this is not just about the large companies and that we are also involving the smaller companies and their own drivers and shippers. I would also like to stress once again that it is not just about sustainability and that it is also about innovation. For example, projects with truck platooning. This also has a beautiful sustainable component, because it saves fuel. This has not only a price but also an environmental advantage. We are going to use it widely, for innovation and for sustainability. The question was also, to say disrespectfully, is it not going to be a milk cow for the Minister of Finance? I think there's an important difference here with the flight tax. With the flight tax, there is a one-on-one link with the treasury, but this is clearly stated in the government agreement that it is being redirected back to the sector. I'll see to that, too. It must not be increased in that other way. Mr Dijkstra (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Dijkstra on his excellent report. The 2012 Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision includes an ambition map for the main road network on page 40. I think that's what you were talking about. It states that, when necessary, the road network should be extended to include widening roads or the construction of missing links. We monitor that periodically. But I would also like to take you to another point in the government agreement, where we are talking about the Mobility Fund. I think we need to get much more to a mobility card. Actually, the Secretary of State and I have already started doing this a little bit through the infographics we use at the MIRT, mapping the overall mobility network. We think multimodality is important. It is not just the road network, the waterway network or the railway network. It is also about the good combinations and connections. So I think an old-fashioned road map will be replaced by a beautiful infographic with mobility. Can we mobilise more money for solutions? Actually, I've already said something about that. But I would like to mention one more point: we also look, of course, with private parties at other ways of financing. In the research on the bank connection in Rotterdam and the Binckhorst in The Hague, you will also see how to link alternative financing and private financing. To make it even more visual: if housing is planted in a place where you also arrange good accessibility, that may also be worth something. If you look at the A2 in Maastricht, with that beautiful double tunnel, you can see that the real estate up there has risen in price. We are also looking with the partners to see if you can make smarter combinations. Mr von Martels asked me to start with pilots for separate strips for trucks. Shall I finish this first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u29	Let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u30	That was the block of private funding, wasn't it? Or will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u31	No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u32	The Minister mentions a number of examples, such as Maastricht, but we have also asked how the Minister looks at the pension funds we have in the Netherlands. There's been a discussion about that for a long time. What can they do in the Netherlands? What are the obstacles to doing more? Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u33	That is a very good point from Mr Amhaouch. We will certainly take that into account in these considerations. We're going to talk to the regions again. The MIRT agenda will also discuss this with a number of regions that I have just mentioned. The metropolis region of The Hague is watching this, just like the region of Amsterdam. We then look at the whole palette of private financing and alternative funding, so we will certainly take the pension funds with us. Mr Von Martels asked me to start with pilots for separate strips for trucks and with truck platooning on the A1, A15 and A17. Making stretches available to specific target groups may also conflict with optimal use of the road network. I do share your view, however, that the impact of a truck accident is often very high. That is why I am also focusing on the speedy opening up of the road, on handling and also on preventing incidents. Innovations like truck platooning can indeed make an important contribution, because that way you also make sure that they don't pop together. Recently, an Experience Week Connected Transport took place on our initiative, in which innovations were applied in logistics practice with a large number of public and private partners. Those were trucks driving a convoy and communicating with the traffic lights. This was the first time in the world that it took place on this scale: 250 trucks, including from different companies and brands. It was often done by one brand, and you actually want it to be applicable everywhere. We also use the existing technology: automatic cruise control, intelligent traffic lights, in-car warnings. In this context, we recently sent a letter to your Chamber on smart mobility, in which we agreed with the regional authorities on pooling of resources. We're also looking at keeping the tires tight. We'll do everything we can to prevent traffic from crashing through tires. All the possibilities you're asking for, we're trying to make the most of them. Mr Van Dijk asked for inspections to be carried out on lorries, particularly on driving times and rest periods. He has drawn attention to this on several occasions. He asked if this would be enough at the moment. The current approach to monitoring the ban on residence and the normal weekly rest, the 45 hours weekend rest, is adequate. The Inspection Environment and Transport and the Inspectorate Social Affairs and Employment also work closely together. The ILT mainly maintains in those parking spaces where there is the most nuisance. In this way, the available capacity will be used as effectively as possible to ensure that transport companies and truck drivers do not commit infringements and indeed to fine them if they do. For the commitment and the results of its enforcement, I would like to refer once again to the letter of 24 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u34	That raises a question for Mr Van Dijk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u35	I have also seen that the controls have indeed been considerably increased. The Minister has also been in parking spaces himself; that is absolutely good. What scared me was that more than 20% of the 700 that were checked got a fine. That says something. Is that perhaps the tip of the iceberg or not? Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u36	I share that with Mr Van Dijk. Those are high marks. That also gives me the feeling that we are doing it for something and that it works. As you know, the ILT operates risk-driven. The odds of getting caught are very high now. If there is a reason for such a high number of offences in a parking lot, then the ILT goes there more often. The aim is, of course, that the number of fined truck drivers will go down. And if you don't, you might have to step up. But for now, it looks like we're effective and we're putting a lot of people on the ticket. Then there is another question about more clarity in the field of electric driving, for example about the locations of loading posts. Mr Paternotte has asked for a seduction offensive by indicating on the signs where electrical charges can be made. That goal, to make that clear to everyone everywhere, we all share. However, I would like to mention a topical point. There's been a lot of complaints about the ambiguity of the icon we have now. They also started a petition on this subject. People say they have to have a clearer image mark for the places where one can charge. I discussed this with the Secretary of State in the context of the national loading infrastructure plan. I would really like to make sure first that we have a clear icon that has added value for everyone, so that you actually go to the right place right away. I'd like to ask you to wait and see how we first figure out how to get a good icon. I can assure you that I will then be able to take loading infrastructure together with the Secretary of State in the framework of the National Action Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u37	Our concern here is that the good must be at the expense of the better. Because the problem now is that people can't find those loading sites because there's so little information. There is an icon, but that icon is indeed unclear. But an unclear icon is often even better than nothing at all. You say you still want to work on a better icon. You're gonna take a look at that and ask me to wait and see. You understand that our impatience is very great because we really have a huge ambition. We want to ensure very quickly that many more people start electric driving and that the second-hand market gets loose. So waiting for that is a very difficult call. My question is then: what exactly is the timetable? When do you think the icon will be there and we can get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u38	I cannot yet give the exact timetable for this, but I would also remind Mr Paternotte that replacing all these signs would cost €800,000. If you do that now, you don't want to find out a few months later that there is another icon that is actually much clearer. What if I promise you that, in cooperation with the Secretary of State, I am trying to get a good icon as soon as possible about which everyone says: this makes it clear that you can charge here electrically? This can then be included in the national action plan for loading infrastructure. I see you're still thinking about it. The Secretary of State is going to say something about that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u39	A motion for a resolution on this matter has been passed by the Chamber. That's a motion from D66 and the Christian Union. When the previous cabinet decided to drive in a number of places 130 km/h, costs were spared no effort. There were signs everywhere, and inserts and inserts were extended. That's when all that was possible. Now there is a development desired by the width of the Chamber and now I hear only'research' and 'we are going to introduce it step by step'. I challenge this Minister to show a little more ambition here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u41	Then we also heard "we're going to introduce it step by step because it's quite expensive." Now I hear from the Minister: we still have research to do and we are going to introduce it step by step. My question is when we will finally be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u42	I think the ambition is very great. There's been a change of plates, too. We had the agreement with the Chamber to work with work in it, in any case at signs that need to be replaced or if there was work elsewhere. So signs have already been replaced. You have to agree with me that if the aim is to be as clear as possible where you can load electrically, then there should be no confusion about the signs. That's not gonna take long investigations. If Mr Paternotte asks exactly how much time is involved, I cannot of course say that. It has only occurred very recently that there has been extensive communication with us about this and that it has been complained about that those pictograms are not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u43	Mrs Dik-Faber, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u44	I would like to inform the Minister that it is important that the pictograms clarify that there is not one type of fuel, but a width of alternative fuels. I'm just gonna use that old-fashioned word. I hear the minister now saying she's going to work with work. If we tie it to that, it's gonna take way too long. We need to actively devise a strategy for this. So it happened when we started driving 130 km/h in many places in the country. My group did not like that idea, but it was good. I mean, all those signs were there all of a sudden. It was all possible. I now ask the Minister to go further on this issue than work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u45	Well, "all the signs were there all of a sudden": that didn't happen that fast. I share the ambition of Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Paternotte. There is now, for example, confusion about whether biofuels or electric charges are involved. I think that should be absolutely clear. I assure you that we will ensure as soon as possible that we have a good, clear icon that fits in with the national loading infrastructure action plan. We will, of course, inform your Chamber about that. I think we are actually showing that ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u46	I'd like to ask you another question. If signs were to be replaced in the coming year, it would be a pity if we did not take that opportunity to include these pictograms. I do have a suggestion to save some time when creating a new icon. For example, make a picture of a plug. So we can save some time. A lot of people think of charging something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u47	That could just be a good suggestion. Let's take a look at that. We share the ambition to make it clear to everyone as soon as possible. Whether it's a plug or a socket, I don't know. Let us at least ensure that we get a very unambiguous pictogram for that. That was my block of roads. I'd like to continue with the road safety block. You just have to open the newspaper, you just have to listen to the news on the radio, or... I think Mrs Van Brenk has something else on the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u48	About the last block? Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u49	Since we were talking about electric cars, I thought my question would be answered now, because that did not happen with the written questions. It was about colored plates. I asked a question about another color plates for electric cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u50	If that's all right with you, the Secretary of State will answer that question. I can imagine that sometimes it's confusing, but in the end it's always gonna be okay. If I don't, the Secretary of State will pick it up and vice versa. Road safety is the most important spearhead for a reason. You actually see daily examples of terrible accidents. We see them come by all the time every day. Of course, there's always a lot behind that, because someone loses their loved one or someone keeps their life-long injury. So road safety is really at the top of the agenda for us. That is why we are also taking a great deal of action in this area. Last September, we launched the MONO campaign. I'm very happy to see more and more people using #MONO. Of course, we will continue to do so for a long time, with all the 40 partners who have committed themselves to it. Next year we also come with the ban on the apps on the bike. I think that is also an important step. We come up with a more stringent approach to traffic hoods. We're going to invest 25 million euros to make the provincial N roads safer. And, of course, there's 25 million for our own national roads. This all comes about together in the Strategic Road Safety Plan. Many Members of Parliament have already said a few things about this. I can tell you that you will indeed receive that plan before the end of this year. We'll put all the sails there. I shall now turn to a question from Mrs Van Brenk. She asked whether attention was also paid to the zebra paths in the road safety plan. The plan provides a very broad overview of road safety policy for the future, but is not yet at the level of such very concrete measures. We want to work in a risk-driven way. So municipalities and regions are really going to do an analysis of what the dangerous places are: what are the risks with us? This will eventually be translated into the implementation plans. And if zebra paths are a risk, they can certainly get a place in them. Because I know what you are saying: a zebra path often does not cross a bicycle path, and that can lead to confusion. So at least we'll give it as a point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u51	Soon we will get the Strategic Road Safety Plan. You say that this will come to us at the end of the year, while the Road Safety Agency will be on 12 December. Does that mean that we cannot involve this manifesto in the AA of December 12th? 'Cause I'd be very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u52	I can't quite guarantee that. It would be a good goal, but I am also dependent on all the other partners who have to support it. So we're gonna do everything we can to save that. Will it be a plan à la Sustainable Safe, Mr Stoffers asked. Well, that Sustainable Safe programme included government grants to local authorities for infrastructure improvements. Those subsidies have now been terminated. Of course, you referred to that yourself. The funds are now decentralised to provinces and transport regions. Since then, they have been responsible for the use of these funds on their way, from their wider budget. To address road safety on the main road network, I spend EUR 79 million on measures in the ongoing programme More Safe. I also spend, as has just been recalled, the 50 million we have in addition to the N-roads. And in the context of the Road Safety Strategic Plan, agreements are therefore made with these other authorities on how priorities can be identified on the basis of a risk analysis of their roads. But it is decentralised: it is their own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u53	This answer comes about close to what I asked. But my question from last week might have been a little tricky. I am actually very concerned about whether there will also be state money for provincial and municipal infrastructure in that Strategic Road Safety Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u54	For this, the task must first be in the picture. The funds are decentralised, so it is in principle up to the bar. But we're gonna do that risk analysis with each other. And at the beginning of this period, for example, I have already taken a step forward by making 25 million for the N-roads available for the N-roads. It is also true that not all measures cost money. In any case, we will also be able to make it a little easier for municipalities and provinces, especially the smaller ones, to support a little more. We're also gonna try to use data to help with the analysis. But first let's see what exactly comes out. Then we may also know what goals municipalities and provinces will stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u55	I understand that, while the plan is not yet in place and it has not yet been negotiated, the Minister cannot name everything. But do I hear now that I want to know whether I hear correctly that the Minister does not rule out the possibility of a national contribution in any form whatsoever for the non-national road network?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u56	I certainly do not rule that out, because there is already 25 million for those regions, for those N-roads. Then there was another question about the government's opinion of the campaign launched by the Red Cross to point out to people that they should call 911 or provide assistance themselves rather than put the victims on the picture. I think that is so important that I would like to emphasise that once again. I also welcome this campaign, which seeks to tackle this disrespectful behavior and in which we remind people of their responsibilities. I hope that this kind of campaign, like the Red Cross now, will really help people to think about what they are actually doing. I believe that an interruption debate by Mr Dijkstra with Mrs Van Brenk also mentioned the German example of the Gaffer. I think we should all contribute to stopping this kind of nasty behavior. Has the Secretary of State spoken with the Minister about the training and the problems surrounding the scooter? The answer to that is yes. The Secretary of State immediately reported to me on this. I would like to say on this point what I also mentioned at the VAO Road Safety, namely that we are expecting that SWOV report very soon. Then we can talk about that in more detail. Mr. Chairman. Then this was the block of road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u57	Thank you. That raises another question from Mr Dijkstra. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u58	Yes, this one I consciously refer to in road safety: 130. We only do that if it is safe and if it fits within the environmental requirements of noise and emissions. Does the Minister share the view that 130 is simply the norm, unless otherwise stated for those reasons? But how do we deal with all these municipalities? I now see left-wing lectures, among other things, tabling motions to reduce speed again. We have seen this in Boskoop, Leidsenhage, now there is something going on in Amersfoort and in other places as well. I asked questions about Heerenveen. How do we deal with that? How can we explain to these city councils that such a motion is nice, but that it is not going to be if it meets the demands we have made with each other here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u59	I think Mr Dijkstra is right to refer to rules that we have set with each other. So that's what we're sticking to. That will not suddenly change from municipality to municipality. We take into account all noise standards and look at the situation of road safety. We apply these rules in the same way everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u60	Another question from Mr Dijkstra? Your fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u61	It's possible. I have also read in the answers that there is a periodic review of the ways in which this can be done. We only have to do it if we can do it within those standards. That's what you're going through with. Is it also known on what routes we can expect this to take in the short term? I also raised the question yesterday whether it could not be done on the beautiful A1 or on the A2 from Amsterdam to Utrecht and vice versa, which solves the difference, 100-120-100, which is rightly annoying people, because we say that the standard is 130.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u62	This is kept periodically by Rijkswaterstaat. Each time an overview of roads or sections that have been added is presented. In a single case, a piece is finished, because a traffic situation has changed. Those reports are made every three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u63	In the first term, I asked a question about the duty of helmets for moustache bikers. I now see an answer in the written reply, but that leaves scope for which direction it is going. My specific question is: how do you feel about the helmet duty for moustache bikers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u64	How do I feel about the helmet duty for moustache bikers? Within the framework of the Strategic Road Safety Plan, and all the categories we are discussing in it, we need to look in particular at SWOV's experts, advice and so on. In that context, we need to have this discussion with each other. We must also take with us the first experiments with moustache bikes going to the driving lane in Amsterdam, which is a new development. Because that also matters, of course, whether you drive on the bike path or on the lane.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u65	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister mentions SWOV, because SWOV is in favour of it. So if it goes that way, I hope to see it in the manifesto.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u66	I think there will be a lot of these kinds of topics addressed in the Road Safety Strategy Plan. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm getting to the block of aviation. Safe and quick from A to B. Let me just say that Mr Paternotte used the same words, otherwise we will have another plagiarism debate; we should not have that. Safe, fast and with as little interference as possible for the environment. The same applies, of course, to aviation. Many Members of Parliament have rightly drawn attention to this. We fly more and more: easy and fast to your family or friends around the world or with your family on a well-deserved holiday. This is of course good for our economy and our jobs, but there are also disadvantages to this growth in aviation: environmental disadvantages and environmental noise. The growth of aviation does have limits. I am therefore always looking for a good balance between the lusts and the burdens. We want to do this carefully and in good consultation with all stakeholders. As you know, air traffic talks are currently taking place throughout the Netherlands with delegations of residents and travellers, airlines and environmental organisations, municipalities, provinces and industry. With the results of all these talks, investigations and ideas, I will present next year the new Aviation Paper 2020-2050, in which we will guide the development of aviation and airports in the Netherlands. Safety is at the top of the agenda, as I say once again, as is the commitment to the reduction of nuisances. We are also working, as you know, on a revision of airspace. Mr Amhaouch discussed this in detail. I would like to confirm once again that, after the airspace review, the flight routes to Lelystad Airport are higher. In addition, there will be a tax on flights either at European or national level. Mrs Kröger, among others, spoke about this, but so did many others. We also stimulate innovation in aviation, such as the development of quieter and cleaner aircraft. This is also something that many Members of Parliament have considered. First of all, we want to tackle this globally, because flying is a global activity. In 2020 there will be a global CO certification for aircraft. A global CO-compensation and reduction system is also on the agenda for international aviation as of 2021, CORSIA. We discussed this with each other last year. We are committed at European level to the European ETS, sustainable alternative fuels and a Single European Sky. Nationally it is about making the ground operations of airports more sustainable, transport before and after, biofuels, electrification and revision of airspace, because more efficient routes can, of course, also contribute to CO reduction. We are also working on agreements and measures at the sustainable aviation table of the climate agreement. Mr Laçin asked: when will the Minister take seriously the management group and the hundreds of thousands of people in the vicinity of the various airports? Since the beginning of my term of office, I have done my utmost to take residents seriously, not least those living around Lelystad Airport. I also attach great importance to the input of those local residents. That is why, for example, last year I organised an internet consultation on the temporary connecting routes and I set up a local delegation led by Mr Ter Kuile, who advised me twice: on the temporary connecting routes and a counter-expertise on the EIA update. This has led, inter alia, to concrete improvements in the design routes and to changes in how participation is addressed. Mr Amhaouch has also tabled motions on this subject in the past, as has Mr Dijkstra. I've set up a board of residents for the experience flight. They have co-prepared and evaluated the process. As a result of the question of the management group how to explain the differences, I had four offices advise on this. This has also led to my initiative for the national programme for measuring aircraft noise. In addition, my officials and I regularly talk to residents. For example, on Monday evening in Hattem there was another meeting with representatives, including from the various action groups. Participation is also a very important issue in the Aviation Paper and the Airspace Review. I explained this to your Chamber in the letter of participation I sent before the summer. I think that we will soon be considering this in general consultations on aviation as well. Mr Van Raan asked about the implementation of the motion on supporting interest groups and residents of airports. I am putting that into practice right now. In the context of the Aviation Note, I also set up a sounding board comprising a delegation of local residents from regional airports. From that residents' delegation, the question has come to support them financially with knowledge. I intend to do the same for those delegations from 2019. Then Mr Amhaouch asked about the safety of Schiphol and the implementation of the opinions of the OVV. The answer to that is that safety is one for me. The basis for aviation safety is the comprehensive system of mainly international law and regulation and supervision, for which the Empire has primary responsibility. More information about the interpretation of my role as the final controller for the traffic at and around Schiphol can be found in a response from the Cabinet to the OVV report. The recommendations of the OVV also point to the implementation of my ambition for this security. The aviation sector itself recently presented its own plans for this. I have promised your Chamber to report on the progress and implementation of the recommendations on a six-monthly basis, including our own. In this half-yearly report I will reflect among other things on the role of the Ministry and will also update on the state of play of that monitor. Then I will also come up with a first assessment by the ILT on the roadmap safety improvement of the sector. So I'll send you that progress report before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u67	It was about the lead group of the Lelystad experience flight and my question to take them seriously. Then I hear the minister say that she is primarily talking and that she is talking to groups, last Monday in Hattem. But taking people seriously isn't just talking to people, it's listening to people. If there is a board of directors of the experience flight that sends a letter of fire, not to me, but to the Minister, which states that they find it incomprehensible that the Minister did not conclude in her letter to the Chamber that the EIA should be revised, then I wonder in what way the Minister took this group seriously. Their conclusion is quite different from the Minister's conclusion. Can the Minister explain to me to what extent she has taken this group seriously in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u68	They have been very involved in the way the experience flight would come about. We listened very carefully to them there. But just because you listen to them very carefully and also hear exactly what they say, doesn't mean that you agree with them one-on-one right away. I'm sure I'll take over some of it. The letter I sent you recently also states that I want to bring the differences between measurement and calculation closer together. You're gonna need time for that. I liked what Mr Amhaouch said from his training in measurement and control technique: measuring is knowing if you know what you're measuring. I memorized it right away. Of course, there's the crux of the story. You can see that. The four independent agencies that have advised would like to think along with that, but it is nowhere else in the world for each other. It's not that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u69	That's right, there's nowhere so simple that it can be arranged that way. That is not what we are proposing either. We are pleased that the Minister is looking at ways of reducing these differences. Only the point is that one flight cannot lead to conclusions. That's what the Minister writes in her letter to the Chamber. We can't draw conclusions from one flight. I'm going back to the first answer. Listening is important, but doing something with the group's conclusions is also extremely important. So the letter says that one flight is not enough. Then I would like to ask the Minister and invite him to organise enough experience flights, so that we do have a good picture, so that we do not open up Lelystad Airport later on on on the basis of data that is all wrong afterwards. Is the Minister prepared to organise more experience flights, so that we can come up with data that might lead to conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u70	We are just going to continue with the experts to see how you can do that in a good way. Because simply more of these experience flights, that won't work either. You really need to see where the measuring points are going to be. We're really gonna get serious about this. It is also too simple a presentation that we could solve the problem here by doing a few extra experiences flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u71	Mr. Laçin, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u72	Finally, on this point. I think it's just too simple a presentation to say: there's been one experience flight, there's a bandwidth, it's acceptable, we're just going on and we're leaving the E.R. for what it is. I think that's a far too simple presentation of things. The Minister's conclusion here is absolutely not our conclusion. Nor is it the conclusion of the group of directors of the experience group and of hundreds of thousands of people who have not felt taken seriously by the minister for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u73	I'm still doing the best I can to take them seriously. You should not forget one thing: the experience flight was not set to solve the problem between measuring and calculating. That experience flight came on the initiative of the residents. That is what has been asked to get an impression of what is about to happen. They've known from the beginning that it was a snapshot, one day, in a weather condition, and that it wouldn't be decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u74	"Not decisive," "a flight," "a moment," "a snapshot"; only the question is how such a snapshot can be so far apart from the model. In fact, I was particularly shocked by the Minister's letter that the models are systematically lower than the measurements and that she is therefore going to do her best to bring measurement and calculation closer together. This is in itself a positive development. In the current EIA for Lelystad Airport, Doc.29 was not used, while the Minister states that this is indeed a more accurate model. My question then is whether the Minister is prepared to submit this to the Commission for its opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u75	No, I'm not prepared to. There is no reason for this either, because we have complied with legislation and regulations. You won't have a solution for this tomorrow. Otherwise, it would probably have been invented elsewhere in the world for a long time. This is going to be a very complicated project. We're gonna do our utmost to bring it closer together, but we're not gonna wait for it endlessly. In this respect, we have just acted in accordance with the current laws and regulations, including European ones. And that is what the independent Commission has for the m.e.r. Confirmed. So there's no reason to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u76	The tricky thing about this answer is that the Minister is very keen to convey the message that she wants to regain the trust of local residents, that that group was created by her to do so. There is now a certain outcome. The Minister acknowledges that there is a better model, the existing model Doc.29, used for Schiphol. This could also be used for Lelystad Airport with a simple adaptation by the NLR with those land poles. Why do we use a better calculation model than not for Lelystad Airport, to at least make it clear? Surely that is the least this minister can do for residents: to provide a better view of the consequences of Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u77	If Mrs Kröger expects all the benefits of Doc.29, in the sense that suddenly the problem between measuring and calculating has been solved, I fear that she will be disappointed in that. For Doc.29, we're going into the trajectory. This requires a process that we must start with the regional authorities. I have also described this in the written answers. We're gonna do that, but that's the next one... because you're gonna have to move on in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u78	"The next" dot, dot, dot: that stuck with the minister for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u79	If there's ever gonna be any other projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u80	My question is whether the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u81	We're not gonna talk through each other. Mrs Kröger, ask your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u82	Sorry, this was a follow-up question. Well, okay. We have this whole process around the E.R., with all the uncertainties. Residents had to fish out the mistakes themselves. An experience flight shows that the values are much higher. The Minister now writes in a letter to the Chamber that there is actually a much better calculation model, Doc.29. That can be even better, based on measurements, but at least that is already there. The question is, as far as I'm concerned, why don't we apply it to Lelystad Airport now? Isn't that so much more clear to neighbors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u83	Then I repeat: because we comply with laws and regulations and we simply have to apply good governance. We do everything by the book. The Commission for the m.e.r. Confirms that. Then you move on to the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u84	At the same time. "He complies with the laws and regulations." That's right. All the crosses and ticks are set. You can even say that he complies with the rules if there are any further investigations that are not yet available, but which have been promised that they will be there. Then that check mark can also be set. My question, my second question, is therefore: is the Minister not afraid... Well, fear is the wrong word; the minister is not afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u85	I don't know what you think I'd be afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u86	What happens when the deviation is too large? The EIA must describe the reality and that check mark must also be set. That hasn't been set yet. What happens when these developments occur, such as in the area of noise? We also saw that the nitrogen regulation, the PAS, didn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u87	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u88	The question is: should the Minister not suspend work under the precautionary principle, because the EIA will also be assessed in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u89	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u90	I'm just gonna finish my question. If Europe finds out that it is actually wrong in the area of noise, that there is a very big deviation in it and that there is something wrong with the PAS, the nitrogen depositions, then what happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u91	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u92	I can only repeat that we comply with all current laws and regulations. If there are other rules in the future, whether with the PAS or with sound or whatever, then we will also comply with them. But, of course, we are simply applying the current legal and regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u93	I have a question about another piece that the Minister briefly touched on a moment ago. I was very uncomfortable with the answer to our question about the flight tax. I was under the firm assumption that this is an environmental measure, but I see here that it is simply a common milk cow for general resources. It has nothing to do with 'polluter pays' and nothing to do with sustainability. You would like this money, like what you heard earlier about the Maut, to be spent on sustainable alternatives, such as the train. I just see here that getting 200 million is the only goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u94	There is, of course, a small comment to make, namely that other sectors are already contributing to the treasury in other ways. In this case, the cabinet has made the choice that the 200 million is justified from this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u95	I am almost stunned, because we find and want the polluter to pay. We want sustainable alternatives, don't we? We know that electric flies are still quite the end of the road and that they will only be smaller planes. We want people to move in a sustainable way. Then it would be a very good alternative to say: the polluter pays and so, the dirtier the plane, the higher it is taxed. We then put that money back into the possibilities for international trains, so that people really have an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u96	The entire cabinet is committed to sustainability and CO reduction. We are all working three rounds to achieve the climate objectives. It is therefore not the case that when it reaches the general budget it is not spent on it. By the way, we are committed to all other ways. We have urged Schiphol to distinguish rates so that the fees for dirtier and noisy aircraft go up. That's what Schiphol is doing now, and so we're using all kinds of incentives ourselves to do that. Secretary of State Snel is now also looking at different types of variations of the flight tax. What effect does that have? It's all being investigated and taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u97	I hear the Minister saying that we are doing everything we can to achieve the climate goals. Well, that doesn't fit the expansion and growth of aviation at all. That is also what the reports make very clear. My question concerns the answer that the Minister keeps giving. I find it extremely difficult for the Minister to keep saying: we comply with the laws and the rules that exist. Last week we had a big debate about the Stint. In that we have also concluded that those laws and rules no longer comply. They're still here, but they're not gonna do it anymore, so we need to do something about it. We now see through the experience flights, the E.R. and the expansion of Lelystad that there is an enormous amount of resistance to aviation. People are stirring because they really don't want to. They're uprising, and they're discovering mistakes in what the Ministry is doing. Isn't that what the Minister needs to do? Just hiding behind laws and rules, isn't it very weak? We just have to listen to these people. We have to come up with good alternatives. Then, together with everyone, all stakeholders, we need to see what the right solution is. I find hiding you behind laws and rules incredibly weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u98	But that's not what I'm doing. I do not remember any other minister who took the step to bring that measure and know closer together. I do not know of a minister who has had that examined and who has actually done the work of phasing out the noisy and polluting aircraft. So it's not. Taking people seriously doesn't mean that you suddenly take everything from them and do what they say without a hitch. I take people seriously. We do all those interviews in the framework of the Aviation Note, and we are open to all input. We involve experts from the Netherlands and abroad to take this step forward and to get better regulation for the future than it is for the present. But we have to do it now with the laws and rules we have now. Mr Paternotte asked whether the Minister would like to remove the brake on electric flying by not charging air transport fees and the like for electric aircraft. In the context of the Aviation Paper 2020-2050, I would like to see whether there are opportunities to stimulate electric flying and what measures are effective and useful in this regard. A number of steps are also being discussed at the sustainable aviation table. You can also use vehicles that drag planes to stimulate electric taxiing. Furthermore, the smaller General Aviation is already quite far away with electric flying. And I would also like to take the opportunity you now mention, Mr Paternotte, into the discussions in the context of that Airfaring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u99	That's good. Electric planes, you mentioned General Aviation. Actually, it's General Aviation now. You can't use it for the passenger airline, because it's still way too small. What if there's a 30-seater on a given? Then it corresponds to the smallest passenger planes and you can use them on the thin lines, the lines with relatively few passengers. We only have lock restrictions in the Netherlands at several airports, Schiphol Airport and later Lelystad, making it very unattractive for airlines to deploy small aircraft. Can we do something about that, for example by looking at whether we can scissor the first electric traffic in the category General Aviation? As a result, these lock restrictions are no reason to deploy larger devices. You can then see if you can put multiple electrical devices in, because that is where we want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u100	I think that Mr Paternotte's ambition is very good, and I share it, so I would like to say that I will look at the possibilities in the context of that aviation note. I would like to mention another example, which I am sure he will also support: not all regional airports have the possibility of charging. Also in the context of the national action plan on loading infrastructure, I would like to mention it again, I would like to report to the Secretary of State to say that she should not forget the airports. That was the block of aviation. Then I'll get to the maritime block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u101	There is another question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u102	Apparently, the Minister is not going to say anything more about the ICAO Convention, which needs to be adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u103	Excuse me, there was a whole piece of my glass.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u104	Let's solve the water pollution first on the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u105	I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u106	Mr. Paternotte, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u107	I understand that the Minister is not going to say anything more about the ICAO Convention, which needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u108	I thought that was included in the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u109	Then there is a question about the written answer. The Minister says that the ICAO Convention contains only a ban on transported kerosene, and that is true, that is Article 24a of the Treaty, but it is, of course, the mother of all bilateral conventions that exclude excise duty on kerosene. If you don't lift that ban, it's gonna be for, I'll just say, an Emirates or a Qatar Airways very easy to take not one but two loads of fuel from the Middle East and fly back on that same load to avoid excise duty. The ICAO Convention therefore needs to be amended, as all bilateral conventions which make it impossible to levy kerosene excise duty will result. My question is whether the Minister understands that it is the mother of the ban on kerosene excise duty and that we still have to adapt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u110	I'd like to take another look at that. But it seems the more appropriate way to come up with European support for this, because we will still need it. If you wanted to call such an ICAO meeting at all, you would need partners. We therefore think it would be a good first step for the conference which Mr Snel will soon be organising in the Netherlands in the context of the flight tax, where all these partners are invited, to set up this point there, because that is the first opportunity that we have so many foreign partners in the field of flight together here in the Netherlands. So I would like to link that with that. Then I can report to you on how much enthusiasm there is for that and then we can come up with a plan B.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u111	Mr Laçin for his fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u112	I was surprised that the Minister already wanted to close the block, because I haven't heard a word about Ryanair. There are some answers in the written reply, but I will introduce it myself and put a question to the Minister. Ryanair is a company that is simply soldering with all the labour laws and rules we know. It exploits employees and illegally excludes the base in Eindhoven. There are now dozens of people unemployed at home because Ryanair illegally closes a base. That's what the judge said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u113	Mr. Laçin, may I ask you for a brief introduction or not at all an introduction? An interruption is meant to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u114	I'm not getting an answer here, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll have to introduce him myself. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u115	No. You may ask your question now, but I really must speed it up towards other Members. Otherwise, we're gonna be here deep into the night, and I don't think that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u116	That's not a problem for me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u117	No. Your question now, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u118	My question. On the basis of the written response, we can conclude that the Minister is actually shifting all responsibility. She says SZW has to do some things and one can go to court oneself. She says, "My ministry's just not gonna do anything about it." I can trace that from here. The Minister only advocates a European approach. As far as I am concerned, that is a cover to do nothing in the Netherlands. That is also apparent from the answers. So my question to the Minister is: what is she going to do about the fact that there are now dozens of people at home because of a tortuous act by a company like Ryanair? And how is it going to ensure that in the spring, if the company wants to come back to the Netherlands, Ryanair will not get a foothold if it does not comply with our laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u119	I admit to Mr Laçin and Mr Van Dijk that they have regularly asked for attention on this subject. However, I would like to remind you that from the very first time you spoke about this, I have promised to raise this issue with the SZW colleagues, who have powers here. And I did. You have also seen, in replying to written questions, that for the first time, the inspection SZW has also taken action and is seriously working on this point. You ask: doesn't the Ministry of IenW do anything at all? I think that is quite wrong, because at the last European Aviation Summit in Vienna, we specifically discussed this issue. And the Netherlands has also been the country that started this in the past, when Secretary of State Dijksma was still responsible for this. It has ensured that a wide-ranging European research is carried out. So the Netherlands, the Ministry and now me, do what we can on this file. And I'm sure I'll find where I'm gonna find involved airlines, just set this point up, and they'll keep this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u120	I can't get an answer to my questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u121	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u122	Mr Laçin talks about his questions and the Minister talks about her answers. I think there has been an extensive exchange of views. I can have you ask your next question, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u123	Well, that'll have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u124	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u125	I asked two questions, Mr President. What is this minister going to do for those people who are now at home and who have been unfairly fired? I didn't hear an answer to that question. And I also asked what happens when Ryanair thinks in the spring: hey, the summer is coming again, so we're going back to Eindhoven. How will the Minister, together with Minister Koolmees, ensure that Ryanair complies with Dutch laws and regulations? And if the company doesn't stick to that, how is the minister going to make sure it just doesn't get laid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u126	I'm not going to do anything about that, because yes, that's the authority of Minister Koolmees and Secretary of State Van Ark. I bring that to their attention every time and they have also taken action. Minister Koolmees is active on this file. And if you think he's doing too little, I suggest you let your Social Affairs spokesman address Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u127	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Dijk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u128	I have a letter here which includes the name of Mr Koolmees. The letter is addressed to Ryanair's boss. The Minister argues with a number of other countries that Ryanair should simply respect local labour law rules. It is clear that Ryanair does not do that. I will just fill in Mr Laçin's questions. The cabinet then says: we argue for this and Ryanair does not listen to this and this is now under the courts. Is it not possible, for example, to withdraw Ryanair's landing rights? Because if Ryanair does not comply with the rules, we should also take firm action. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u129	I don't want to get ahead of things like that. It doesn't make any sense to say anything about cases that are under the judge. Mr Koolmees and I are in this in the same way. Mr Koolmees is the ideal person for the principle of equal pay for equal work. I'm sure he's committed to that. The next time I speak to him, I will address him again, but I have no doubt about his commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u130	I see in the letter that something is actually happening at international level. That's really good. A "as-dan question" is always difficult, but is the withdrawal of landing rights one of the possibilities? Because the Cabinet also has opportunities to force such a company as Ryanair, which clearly does not comply with the rules, to comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u131	If it's really established that a company doesn't follow the rules, I think you can do something with that. What exactly is that about landing rights, I wouldn't know and I would have to find out. But for the time being, Minister Koolmees should first determine exactly what is going on. Then we can look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u132	Your next question, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u133	I understand it's gonna take a while. It is under the courts, but I would ask the Minister to at least map out the possibilities for himself. Should it come to that, we are also ready as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u134	I say to Mr Van Dijk that I will act in good consultation with Mr Koolmees. If we come to the conclusion that laws and regulations are not complied with, then we will simply be enforcing where we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u135	The Minister began her speech by saying that we are out of the crisis. I would like to come back to that as a small introduction to the question I am going to ask. The minister said that, but she knows very well, I don't think we're out of the crisis at all. We're in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u136	From the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u137	But we're in the middle of the climate crisis, we're in the middle of the sixth extinction wave. Isn't it important, instead of responding in 2019, to start working on the motion that says "hinder is more than just noise," to take the concept of nuisance more widely, in all the pieces and decisions you're making from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u138	Then you need to know exactly how to define things. And that's exactly what we're still doing with each other. We need to map this carefully, and we need the very careful process in the context of the Aviation Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u139	I hardly dare to respond to this, because you will say 'that is a question'. So I'm moving on to the next one. Thanks for the answer, by the way. We also asked questions about CORSIA. The question I would like to put to the Minister is as follows: can the Minister guarantee that CORSIA will not intervene in any way, but in any way, in any way, in the European ETS system that Europe intends to introduce for aviation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u140	If you put it that threateningly, I'm inclined to think there's a catch somewhere? That's why I'm saying I'll check it again. But not as far as we know. If so, I'll report to you very soon. I also see the official support shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u141	A clear and clear answer. That'll give us some clues again. One final question is also about CORSIA. CORSIA has managed to get oil defined as green fuel: oil as green fuel! If the refinery uses renewable energy to process oil, then the fuel oil and then the kerosene........................................................................................................................................................................................ That is, of course, the dream of the VVD. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u142	As far as I can say as a minister, that is not the dream of the VVD. That was your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u143	The question was asked on the one hand to the VVD... The VVD was challenged, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u144	Maybe a little faint, but no, of course we share with you that you don't think directly about oil in the case of sustainable fuels. If it was going that way, we should see what we can do to change that. It hasn't been introduced yet, so you need to see how it's going to work out in practice. Mr President, then I come to the block of maritime transport. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u145	There is another question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u146	The favourite subject of our committee: aviation. We're getting the Airline Paper 2020-2050. It will, of course, be extremely important for the future of aviation. Would the Minister be prepared to submit this Aeronautical Note to the Commission for its opinion.?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u147	Well, let's take that as input into the entire process of the Aviation Note. Maybe we come to the conclusion that it can be of added value. I can't see that yet, but let's at least take the thought with us in the whole process, and then we can still consider later whether it's useful or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u148	Aviation's been taken care of, I thought. The minister was going to make a bridge, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u149	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u150	I have one more question. Part of that question has been answered in writing. It was about the expertise in the ministry but also with other organisations involved. The Minister states that she has taken a lot of action in the Ministry and has brought in a lot of people with expertise. But are the organisations involved in the reclassification of airspace all foreseen? Are they sufficiently present so that airspace can be reorganised on time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u151	Mr Amhaouch is right. We added 20 extra FTE to that at the Ministry. We also explicitly look beyond the Dutch borders to get expertise where possible. We're also looking at the committees for the neighbors. We'll see where the expertise needs support there. But you are right: of course, LVNL and CLSK must also be able to make their contribution. We're gonna let those experts figure it out, too. We really have the impression that at this point we have all the knowledge and skill in our house. As far as the airspace review is concerned, we also use outside experts who can support it. So I have every confidence in that. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the maritime block. Major developments are also taking place in shipping. We are on our way to an era where ships will also be sailing on clean energy, autonomously and digitally. It is my goal to be at the forefront of the world in this area as well. In the green deal we hope to conclude, Dutch shipping will also contribute to the Paris climate goals. For example, when a ship arrives somewhere, they don't have to fire diesel for their own lighting, but they can simply get power from the side. These include, for example, bunker sites for renewable fuels. These are all very concrete measures that we want to speed up. We are really committed to a modal shift: there needs to be more transport from the road to the water and to the rail. But the Secretary of State will say more about that. This is good against congestion and also good for air quality. I am therefore very unhappy at the moment with the fact that, among other things, the drought sometimes threatens the opposite: a reverse modal shift. Due to the low water levels in the rivers, the same cargo sometimes requires two or three ships. That is, of course, inefficient and expensive. Many sectors also suffer from this, such as construction, which awaits materials, and livestock farms, which lack feed. I also mention all kinds of supplies to Germany and Switzerland. A reliable delivery time is essential. Together with the sector, we are working hard to prevent shippers from switching to road transport. When it comes to reliable delivery times, I also think about congestion in the port of Rotterdam. We also discussed this extensively with each other in the previous AO Maritime. That is what we are now collectively putting our shoulders under. At that time I could remember that there was an action plan from the Port of Rotterdam, with 23 action points. Many of them have already entered a concrete phase. For example, there will be an overflow hub, a disconnect point that provides more quay space and cranes for inland navigation. This allows the container volumes to be spread a bit more and we can better distribute the peak capacity. The VVD has asked: what will the Minister do for targeted actions to make better use of the opportunities for inland navigation? In the water letter of June 2018, I announced the programme Integrated River Management. Now you may think: that belongs to the WHO Water home. That is true, but I will mention it for a moment, because the new feature of integrated river management is that it is no longer just about water safety and water quality, but that the interests of the users of the rivers are also explicitly taken into account. This is, of course, mainly inland waterway transport, alongside pleasure shipping. With this programme we are going to take the complete task of the river systems, because the water level is, as I mentioned earlier, extremely important for inland waterway transport. A good navigability of the rivers is really necessary to ensure that you do not get that reverse modal shift, which none of us want. We see as a new line that the inland waterway sector is more explicitly on the table at all river-related considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u152	The Minister says a number of nice things about inland waterway transport and sustainability. Maritime transport is, of course, one of the most important sources of greenhouse gases on our planet, but it was not included in the Paris climate agreement. Last April, the International Maritime Organization in London agreed to set similar ambitions, but shipping is not yet at the climate table. If we really want to do something to make maritime transport more sustainable, I think it would be good if the Minister looked at whether it could be part of it and fit in with the climate tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u153	I have good news for Mr Paternotte, because shipping is certainly at our table for the green deal and is thinking about taking steps. If you can build something in the large ports of shore power for a large cruise ship, I'll just say something about that, then that really makes sense. If you see how much such a cruise ship is hiding to light things up and so on, that's a very nice example of what we're thinking about right now. So that's what they're talking to. Then I will immediately make a bridge to Mrs Dik-Faber, who asked for the implementation of the motion on the sustainability of maritime transport, inland waterway transport and ports and progress on the green deal. The inland waterway sector is closely involved from the start. We are talking about cleaner engines and reducing waiting times at ports, locks and bridges. Those are all subjects that get a place at that table for the green deal. I have recently spoken with all the maritime sectors, including shipping, in the direction of Mr Paternotte, in order to achieve an ambitious but realistic transition path. I think we can all see that it is easier for a passenger car to switch to electrifying and that it is already a little more complicated in the case of lorries. In the case of ships, it is even more complicated because of the long depreciation period. In aviation it is the most complex because the weight there plays such an important role. However, we are working hard with all sectors at the climate tables, and in this case also for the green deal, to agree on a concrete, realistic transition path. I can tell Mrs Dik-Faber that we are assuming that we can complete this green deal in early 2019. Then, of course, I will come back to you and we can talk about it together. Mr Stoffer asked for an objective for modal shift to inland waterway transport. Can we make sure we don't get rid of small ships? I am indeed a warm advocate of water transport. That is also the reason to invest heavily in the waterways. You're right about the modal shift asking for more. It's about the whole picture. You really want to influence the choice of the logistics parties, of the shippers. Also there we have to take everything out of the closet to seduce them to choose the water. I am therefore also in the process of drawing up a freight transport agenda. I want to send it to the Chamber in early 2019. The modal shift will explicitly come back to that. I was at the Delta Congress this week, where I met Mrs. Van Brenk. After that I was on to the congress of the Dutch Association of Inland Ports. It was also said: how can we make this sector attractive again and ensure that enough people want to work? It is the interplay of the whole. There I made the suggestion that perhaps a "shipper seeks wife" program should be introduced, to show what a beautiful world that is. Maybe that could attract some new people and bring the sector more to the fore. Mr. Chairman. I think I've had the questions about the maritime part. Then I'll get to the other block. I have already told Mrs Van Brenk that I would like to come back to a number of good questions in the area of water safety during the legislative consultation on water. I would also like to emphasise to her that I am also saying this a little towards Mr Van Raan, that climate adaptation is and will continue to be one of my priorities. I will also be happy to discuss the SDG 6 with you. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked whether it might be possible in the future to install solar panels on bicycle paths or flight lanes and whether they are already being experimented with. As reported to your Chamber in 2016, we are working to ensure that the RWS networks will be energy neutral by 2030. In addition, IenW can indeed contribute to the national climate change and energy transition by making self-sufficiency available for the generation of renewable energy by third parties. At the moment RWS is carrying out a pilot programme on behalf of the Ministry of EZK: renewable energy on RWS grounds. For example, the A37, which is already called the solar road, is looked at the A6 and the Afsluitdijk. Furthermore, regional authorities are also working on regional energy strategies. I asked RWS to take part in these regional authorities' thinking: what can we do with our areas? Mr Ziengs has asked for innovations and developments: do we keep up with them and do we have enough capacity to do so? IenW is really a knowledge-driven organization. The challenges we face also demand that we pay full attention to innovation. We work a lot with knowledge institutions, whether MARIN or Deltares, or with all knowledge institutions and companies in the automotive sector in the field of smart mobility. We do that in all respects. We'll have Amsterdam Drone Week soon. We also follow the new technology. It is not for nothing that Commissioner Bulc comes to the Netherlands, to Amsterdam, to our Drone Week: because we can organise a state-of-the-art congress. A further question from Mr Van Dijk on the Wadden. We would have expected no less than questions from Mr Van Dijk. What is the status of the management authority process and what is it going to do? In the coalition agreement, we have indeed announced that there will be a single managing authority for the Wadden Sea, which will have to implement an integrated management plan. We have already indicated at the AO Wadden that there will be a clear separation between policy and implementation. In April 2018, together with the Minister of LNV, I commissioned an independent exploration of that managing authority. We are, of course, doing so on the basis of the current legal frameworks and the framework conditions that have been laid down. It must be an organization that is recognizable and accessible to stakeholders, which was also your plea and which is easily accessible, authoritative and effective. You mentioned a Commissioner: that is one of the variants examined. It must be a coherent and planned approach to nature and fish management in which all aspects of nature, fish, water are brought together. I would also mention the tasks arising from world heritage status, such as education and support. So this exploration is a problem analysis. We're gonna work out some variants. The preliminary results are already being analysed. On the basis of these results, I will outline the contours together with the Minister of LNV. I cannot anticipate that yet, but you can be sure that we are really trying to make that a smooth-functioning thing. That's what the Wadden need. Last week, or two weeks ago, I received the people of the Marrum Pact at the Ministry. I liked it very much to see how the ports and nature organisations work together in that area. I think that's exactly the look we need with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u154	There is a question from Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u155	I am going back to the point of inland waterway transport. I hear the Minister talking nicely about inland waterway transport. I'm very happy about that. I shall look back at the written answer to a question from my colleague from the SP on the motion that we tabled together and which has been adopted. We must note that the Minister considers modal shift to be very important, but we do not see that in the way she answers the questions about the CCNR regulation. We still note that there are examples that our Dutch inland waterway transport is being dealt with much more heavily than those across the border. Therefore, once again, the question to the Minister how it is possible that our own inland waterway transport still suffers from this CCNR regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u156	I spoke very well with the sector about this. I have also looked at examples of how they do this in other countries. I also stated in the written reply that ILT is looking at how we ensure that there is a level playing field. That's just our bet. It must not be the case that our inland waterway vessels have to comply with heavier rules or that they are dealt with in a different way than the Flemish or German ones. So that's what we keep fighting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u157	It is good to hear that the Minister is actively working on the management authority for the Wadden. It's really good that this is going to happen. Depending on when it comes to the Chamber, is there any discussion about the task of that managing authority? Now that sees very much on nature, but also from the inhabitants around the Wadden area there is a number of concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u158	We can certainly talk about that. I also hope that this will emerge from the inventory. The Minister of LNV and I have also given the mandate that all stakeholders should be able to express their concerns and concerns. These are, of course, not least the people who live on the Wadden. So I really hope that there will be a good, comprehensive balance, including those interests. Then I'd be through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u159	Well, well, well. I see another question from Mrs Van Brenn. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u160	I need one clarification on a written reply from the Minister. On page 149 in the budget, the deficit at Rijkswaterstaat is in the maintenance. There was also a response from the General Court. The amount is now up to 744 million. They say, "That's quite a risk." Now the Minister states that security is not at stake. My question is how the Minister can say so clearly. I hope that makes it easier to get back to my place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u161	The short answer to this is that RWS is monitoring things so closely that this situation is not going to arise. There is regularly considered, both by contractors and once every six years during a very large, thorough fireplace. If there is any evidence that the use can no longer be tolerated, then either measures will be taken or it will be restored immediately. Delayed maintenance is something other than delayed maintenance. You have to make that difference explicitly. If a road is still good, even if it is theoretically written off, and the tests show that there is nothing wrong with it, then it is also a shame to replace it or take other measures. That is what is really being looked at very carefully. There are certainly no safety risks involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u162	Thank you. A further question from Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u163	I had another question following the Minister's written reply. She goes into that concept that I introduced during my maiden speech. That was "carnivore, pass it on," introduced by a D66 senator. I had the feeling that in the written reply something other than the concept was meant to have happened. The concept is that the standard menus, for example lunches and dinners, serve standard vegetable food within the Ministry. On request, meat can still be served. That's how you turn the social norm around. This is a very important signal to society, where meat is mostly the standard for the time being. So by turning that social norm around, you're sending out an important signal: we need to eat less meat because of the climate. And besides, you don't affect the freedom of choice. So my question to the Minister is: does she see any chance of introducing this concept within her ministry at lunches and dinners, thereby contributing to climate tax reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u164	At our ministry, it's not exactly an à la carte restaurant. You just have an offer, and people choose what they want. And when we have lunch or something, there's a bowl of sandwiches and people choose whether they want something with meat or fish or something vegetarian or something like that. So I don't see what else we could do with us. There's always a vegetarian offer, so that choice can be made by anyone. I think that's the way it should be. It's not like we serve extensive dinners at the Ministry, so it's not that big of a deal with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u165	Your seventh question, Mrs Teunissen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u166	Yeah, well, a follow-up question. What if the plateau with the sandwiches is standard vegetable? And if there is a need for meat or fish or dairy, then an order is made separately. So you show: "We have as standard: the norm is vegetable. If you want, you can order meat or fish. That is not a problem, but we are going to change the norm, as an example for the rest of society." How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u167	It seems to me to be a very bureaucratic burden. We would then have to take stock of what everyone wants to eat in advance in all kinds of consultations. It just doesn't work that way. There's just general shopping. I can tell you that there is ample food without meat or fish. Usually the cheese sandwiches are the first to run out, I can tell you from experience. And the raiment bulbs are going fast, too. But I think we should just leave people the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u168	Okay. The Minister is thus at the end of her first term. Before I go to the Secretary of State, I'd like to suggest that we suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u169	We're just waiting for the Minister. There's the minister. This means that we will proceed with the answer of the Secretary of State in the first term. I call the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u170	Thank you, Madam President. As the Minister said, first of all thanks to the Members of Parliament for their input and also for their presence at this late hour, we will be here with each other for a while, but also, of course, my congratulations to Mrs Teunissen of the Animal Party for her maiden speech. I will also do my answer in a number of blocks. Let me make a brief general introduction first. Then I'll move on to the block of sustainable transport. There are rail and rail, but also electric transport and the bike. Then I go to the block of circular economy, with of course also special attention to plastics. Then a block of clean and safe living environment and then a very small block of other. Mr. Chairman. I told you it's late, so in the middle of the evening, but for a first own budget it still has some kind of energy of a sunrise. And the urgency is great. It is a nice start of a new year and I look forward to working with you all. The urgency is great and we have a great deal to do. As far as I am concerned, we need to make the Netherlands future-proof step by step. I am thinking of climate-neutral by using raw materials more efficiently in a circular economy, with sustainable transport significantly reducing CO emissions. I am thinking of a better and safe track, well above and of course more space for the bike. I am also thinking of a healthy, clean and safe country: healthy air, clean water, a poison-free soil and a safe environment for everyone. That's actually what people expect from the government. In that respect, we are indeed a very green ministry. Mrs Kröger and I absolutely agree. The need to accelerate is also clear. The Minister has already indicated that. If you're talking about mobility, the platforms are busier, the coupés are fuller, but also outside, the urgency is great. Because people's concerns about a safe living environment are also sharper. We will have to answer them, and climate forecasts are increasingly alarming. In short, I welcome the results that we have achieved over the past year, but we must continue to do so again next year. I am thinking, for example, of the cabinet letter on the circular economy that we have been able to send over the past year, also on behalf of many other colleagues in the cabinet. We are really going to work hard on that circular economy in the breadth of the cabinet. Now it is about concrete implementation, so I want to send you the implementation agenda and achieve a plastic pact in 2019. That will be a pact with agreements, not without commitment. It must be monitorable for the purpose of: working with 100% recyclable plastics and stopping with single-use plastics. But I'm also thinking about air quality. It is very good that we have improved them in recent years with additional measures in the inner cities. With the adaptation of the NSL, we expect to be one of the first countries to meet the limit values in inner cities. At the same time, we're not there yet. That's why I want to present the Clean Air Agreement before the summer of 2019. I am also pleased that we can take steps together in international rail traffic. Mrs Kröger, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Paternotte, but also Mr Amhaouch, have regularly drawn attention to this. My commitment is to get 2 million passengers on the plane in the coming years and thus avoid unnecessary short flights. It is also very nice that this year the Eurostar has started driving from Amsterdam to London. 130,000 passengers chose that train, but of course we want to work towards a second, third and ultimately also a fourth and fifth Eurostar per day. Mr. Chairman. Finally, of course, the bike. If there is one subject that has been in a higher gear in the past year, perhaps that is the bike. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna be kicking ass next year. This is also possible, because of the good cooperation with municipalities, provinces and parties such as Tour de Force. Together we provide wind for the bike. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be the first to go to the block of tracks. I'll start with sustainable transport. We are working very hard to make mobility sustainable. There is a considerable challenge to meet the Paris climate targets and the national climate agreement. We're working very hard on that. Transport more people with less emissions: that's really what it's about. We do this by improving the public transport system and the rail system, encouraging electric driving, increasing the number of hydrogen filling stations and giving the bike a good track. The bike can make our cities cleaner and better accessible. More than half of the people live within 15 kilometres of work. With the e-bike, you'll actually be right there. Mr. Chairman. O.V. and trace. Every working day, about 1.3 million people travel by train. At our largest station, Utrecht Central, 186.000 people get in and out every day; that's a 3% growth compared to the year before. The OV-chipkaart is used 3.3 million times a week. These are impressive figures and the performance is good, but I think that these figures will be even more impressive in the coming years, because the need for mobility in the Netherlands is increasing. The way in which we want to improve it for the traveller can be summarized as: more trains, which run faster, closer to each other, even safer and also across borders. That's what we're going to invest in, up to 2030, some EUR 10 billion. Take the ten-minute train, for example. It already runs between Amsterdam, Utrecht and Eindhoven, with success. We are working to extend this to other sections, such as Schiphol-Utrecht-Nijmegen and Rotterdam-Den Haag. In this context, a major renovation of the Driebergen-Zeist station takes place. This will improve the connection between the train and other types of transport in that region. The Minister also pointed out that multimodality is very important to us. You should be able to easily switch between car, bike, bus and train and we invest in that. By the way, a nice detail is that this station is being converted circularly and innovatively, with as much reuse as possible of materials. I say this in particular to Mrs Van Eijs, who pays attention to early recyclable concrete and a 3D-printed staircase. Sometimes smart plans also allow for improvements, such as bringing forward the work at Nijmegen station for three years. This will allow more and longer trains to run there next year and that just means 20% more seats on one of the busiest routes in our country. Good news for the traveler, because no one is on the train for fun. Other places in the Netherlands are also working on more comfort for train passengers. In October the work started for the project Extra express train Groningen-Leeuwarden. As of 2020, therefore, in Northern Netherlands, double the number of trains that currently run. Mr Amhaouch asked: does the Secretary of State wish to investigate on which routes electric express buses can run? He specifically mentioned Breda-Utrecht as a long and long-awaited route. He asked for attention for a HOV connection there, because it would be difficult to quickly build a train connection there. He is right: the bus is flexible and little separate infrastructure is needed. Where there is no rail link and a rapidly growing demand for public transport, this is an interesting option. It is also hopeful that more and more electric buses will become available, because they are fast and also clean. In among others the Future Image OV we give explicit attention to the bus, both inside and outside the urban area. In this context, there is a study on an innovative bus connection between Utrecht and Breda. I hope to be able to communicate the insights to Mr Amhaouch in spring 2019 so that we can look at the possibilities with him. How can we improve the connection between Breda and Utrecht and how can we improve the quality of public transport there? Then Mr Dijkstra asked about the rail freight package and whether we want to be alert to competition from our sector in relation to the countries around us. That is absolutely right. I am keen on this, because I want to encourage rail freight transport. That is why the government agreement also states that we are going to put the use fee in line with neighbouring countries. Perhaps it was Mr Ziengs who asked about it. You have both paid attention to the transport of goods. I think this was a question from Mr Ziengs. Through a subsidy scheme in the form of a discount on the usage fee I reduce the costs. Indeed, this brings the tariffs for users to the same level as the countries around us, such as Germany. I am currently working out the regulation which was also a question from Mr Ziengs, I think is being applied retroactively at the beginning of 2019. Even if it may take some time to arrive in 2019, it will be applied retroactively in 2019. Mr Paternotte asked about the international rail agenda. I believe that improving international rail links is absolutely a policy priority. It is for the Chamber, too. I always notice that in the debates. We are even about to have a very separate debate about it. Then we can talk about both aviation and rail, but then we can also go through all the short cross-border connections that are so important in the border regions. A number of short cross-border connections are indeed being developed with other stakeholders. We want to improve it. There are a number of examples. At the beginning of 2019, a board agreement will be signed for the connection Groningen-Bremen. Financial agreements are currently being concluded between the Netherlands and Germany. There is still a lot of other shorter distances that we are also working hard on. In addition, at my request, the quickscan Berlin train will be operated. Those are a little longer distances. This will be delivered at the end of this year. An agreement will be reached on this. The Eurostar intends to take a third train to London in summer 2019. I also support Eurostar's ambition to take a fourth and fifth train. Of course we still have to discuss this with NS, ProRail and of course JenV, because the use of the Marechaussee is really a prerequisite to make this possible. That must of course be possible, also within all other priorities for which the Marechaussee is being asked, but we are talking about it. Work is also under way with parties in the rail and aviation sector to address the international train for the five most promising destinations. These are destinations for which it is interesting to get on the train. You don't get on the train for 12 hours for a weekend in Barcelona, but if you want to go to Paris, Brussels, London or Düsseldorf, you can make the train a really good alternative if we can make it easier. For the AO International Track you will receive a letter with an update on the various files. Ms Kröger asked whether international rail could also become part of next year's policy priorities and whether it would be anchored in a programme within the concession. I do not see any reason for a separate programme, because the ambitions for international transport are already laid down in the concession obligations. But I think that the suggestion to include international rail transport in the annual priority letter is a very good suggestion. So I'd like to be willing to do that. I will inform the Chamber annually about international rail transport. It is also nice, now that we have a separate debate on it, that we may be able to draw up an annual report on where we stand and that I will send you an annual letter on progress in this area. Then there's a question that's in my folder, but it's not really about the track. I'm going to the cab. Of course, it's part of public transport. I've been asked if I'm willing to talk to Uber and ask them to follow the rules. In particular, there was a question about driving and rest periods. I think it is very important to talk to Uber and to appeal to them on their responsibility, because all drivers must comply with driving and rest periods. I can tell Mr Van Dijk, who asked a question about this, that Uber is also in a positive position in the competition to encourage drivers to comply with working hours and rest periods. So that's what we're talking about. Maybe even using their app, you can find a way to respect the privacy rules on the one hand, but make sure you can still guarantee those driving and rest periods. So, in reply to Mr Van Dijk's question: yes, we are talking about this, because this too needs to be dealt with properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u171	Thank you for that commitment. That's very important. There's something upstairs. I also spoke during my speech about the fraud that is being committed through Uber. An article about this has been published in the Volkskrant in which Uber says: it is not our responsibility, because we are a platform company, we are not a carrier. We should actually find out about this and Uber hopefully also that Uber is not a platform company but just a transport company. How does the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u172	Mr Van Dijk is right to draw attention to this, because of course any form of fraud or tax avoidance is undesirable. In fact, such criminal behavior has nothing to do with taxi transport, but when it happens, it leads to unfair competition. This is why the Inspectorate for the Environment and Transport is investigating this in close cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Police and the Tax Administration. We'll wait for those tests first. Then we can figure out which button we need to turn to deal with this. I also contacted the municipality of Amsterdam in connection with that article. I said that I also like to talk to them, because perhaps we can find a button in the way the permits are applied for and issued to prevent the ILT from mopping continuously while the crane is open. Perhaps that is where we can ensure a proper connection between what the municipality is doing and what we are doing. But if it's criminal behavior, if it's real fraud, it's also a matter of police and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u173	I found Uber's reaction that it's not their responsibility, though shocking. Uber says: they are the drivers, they are themselves responsible and we as a company have nothing to do with that. That is, of course, essential. Where taxi companies with different drivers have to show responsibility, have a whole licensing system and all kinds of laws and regulations, Uber does not have that. That's starting to sting, especially now that Uber's growing. I do not want to detract from the good service provided by Uber that many people enjoy, but it must be a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u174	Everyone in the Netherlands has to comply with the law, and so must Uber and the drivers who drive for Uber. So we're gonna have to find a way to do that with each other. In the case of fraud and tax avoidance, we must ensure that we find a way to find out what is going on. You need that image first to find out how you can put an approach to it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to switch to the electric cube. Sustainable transport is more than just public transport and, as a cabinet, we also want all new cars to be emission-free by 2030. So any new car that is then added to the fleet must be zero emission. We also use on 2025 zero-emission city logistics, clean city buses and sub-cars. All this must help us to achieve the goals of the Paris climate agreement. We are busy in consultation with a lot of parties to work out the agreements on all these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u175	I'd like to go back to the block. The bus and public transport have the full attention of the Secretary of State, but on the other hand we also see that many bus lines disappear with market forces and tenders. Those are buses that people just need to go from A to B. This is sustainable transport, which is extremely important to us as well. We would like to propose that we look at what we can put on the other side, with provincial bus companies or perhaps a rural bus company, as we also see that a lot of bus companies that drive around here are actually foreign state companies. How could we make it legally possible for us to keep a little more direction on that? For example, we can better organise our own bus companies with provincial bus companies and ensure that bus lines do not disappear, especially in the region, because that is simply extremely important. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u176	I have dealt with this in the written reply. I indicated that legislation does not currently allow provinces to start their own bus company. In addition, I do not recognize so much the image that Mr Laçin sketches, that bus lines disappear everywhere. It is in any case up to the provinces, which grant the concession, to determine what services they want in their province. Fortunately, provincial states can check excellently on this, to see if the right choices are made. If that is a matter of concern, it is up to Provincial States to discuss this explicitly with Deputy States, which are concession providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u177	I also asked a question about public transport. I didn't get an answer. The question was to what extent the increase in VAT, the increase in the cost of public transport, is at odds with government policy. We want as many people as possible in public transport and it seems because of this increase that you are driving people into the car.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u178	This question too has been answered in the written answers, although a little shorter, but I am happy to do so orally. The VAT increase is part of a total tax package of the cabinet, whereby we opt for the heavier taxation of consumption and the less heavy taxation of labour. In that context, you should see this. At the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, we had it examined whether this would have major negative effects on public transport. This shows that it is a one-off drop of one percentage point, compared to a very large further growth. So the picture that Mrs Van Brenk sketches, that we are massively scaring people off the train, is not shown by the figures. The figures show that growth in public transport will increase considerably in the coming years. The same applies to the road: the pressure is high for the whole of mobility. That is why I am working hard with the Minister to create as much capacity as possible and to make as much investment as possible with the resources we have received from this cabinet, to accommodate that growth and to make it an attractive O.V. product. Mr. Chairman. It has just been discussed in a small debate between Mr Paternotte and the Minister: the loading posts. Indeed, a network of loading posts can hardly be close enough, if only to visit your exiled mother-in-law, I say to Mr Paternotte. Clean transport to mother-in-law: it could almost be a nice motto. But there are already a lot of great initiatives. For example, in the granting of public transport concessions in Groningen and Drenthe, next year, dozens of new electric buses and hydrogen buses will be running. Around Schiphol is the largest electric fleet in Europe. I was able to launch it myself. There is also beautiful: made in Holland. So clean mobility is just gonna be the new normal. Then Mr Paternotte asks: how do we ensure that there are enough loading posts? The Minister has already indicated that in the climate agreement we are working on the ambition that every new car that comes on the market in the Netherlands will be a clean car by 2030. As part of this, we must, of course, ensure that there are sufficient loading posts at that time. But it is not just about loading posts: we will also have to look at other technologies. Because hydrogen is also an interesting option. We need to ensure that we have sufficient infrastructure to provide for this sustainable mobility. That is what we are taking and then it makes sense, as the Minister said, that if we take the structural roll-out of the signs with us, we will ensure that not only the loading posts that are now there, but all the new loading sites that are going to be there are immediately thought about how to ensure that people know where they stand. As the Minister said, we'd be happy to take that with us. Then we have a structural approach to the correct point that Mr Paternotte points out: if you have an electric car, you want to know where to load it. Mr Paternotte also asked how we are going to make that easier across the border. Charging should be as easy as calling across the border. I fully agree with Mr Paternotte. I think charging your car across the border should be as easy as charging your phone. I'm working on that, too, through agreements with neighbouring countries. At EU level, I call for an open, accessible loading infrastructure. This requires, in particular, open standards and open standards. I am talking about interoperability. We are now going into the technique a bit, but the technique here is decisive for the question of whether it will succeed in the end. The Netherlands really does pull the cart there. In December 2017, I signed a declaration of intent with the Benelux countries on cross-border electric driving. Such an explanation lies with North Rhine-Westphalia. Since then, many loading providers in the Benelux and Germany have been interconnected. Therefore, you can simply pay with your own charging pass or with your own app at other loading posts abroad. This is the way it should be, not just in this region, because we need to extend it further. Therefore, the Netherlands is leading a project with 16 Member States aimed at providing good information for drivers on location, availability and charging prices. That is where we are also working on intra-mobility. I also intend, once again encouraged by Mr Paternotte, to draw attention to the importance of this point at the next Environment Council in December, namely that you should actually be able to load your car as easily as your phone. Then there was a question from Mrs Van Brenn about municipalities that do not buy sustainable public transport. I am, of course, very much in favour of sustainable public transport. And with local authorities, we have concluded the zero-emission bus agreement. This agreement was concluded in order to take an important step towards a cleaner climate. From 2025, new buses should no longer have emissions, so that towards 2030 the entire bus fleet is zero emissions. This cannot be done everywhere, because, for example, the loading infrastructure still needs to be built. But a lot of bus concessions are already pouring in zero-emission buses. I have already mentioned the example of Amstelland-Meerlanden around Schiphol. As I said, it is also part of the talks in the climate agreement. Then Mrs. Van Brenk also asked for another color license plate for electric cars. In any case, I very much appreciate the power of thought and the ideas of this committee of the Chamber. The goal is: by 2030 only new clean cars. That means, Mrs Van Brenk, that we would then phase out the electric plate. I am charmed by that yellow color! So I don't foresee that, but we do foresee, as I said, other incentives. And this is also discussed in the climate agreement. However, I see Mrs Van Brenk's example as an incentive to say: how can we encourage people to switch with other than the obvious financial measures? The point has been raised before whether it is clear for people who are going to buy a car, which is the difference in costs, not only when you buy the car but also when you use it. These are all things that we need to pay attention to and that can simply help to facilitate the transition. Mr President, I actually wanted to switch to the bicycle if there are no more questions about the electric car. I do not immediately go to the electric bike, but of course it is very important. This cabinet actually makes the bike the new weapon against the hustle and bustle, fast and clean from A to B. That is why we are committed to working with employers, the employer's approach. The other day I had a very nice session with eleven bicycle ambassadors who also excited each other and who all came up with creative ideas to convince more colleagues to work with this employer approach. It is good for the health of workers, good for reducing the pressure and good for air quality. And besides, so many people just get to work faster. It is also important that we as a government do our part and that is why the cabinet has decided over the past year to make the lease bike easier. That's why I invest at least a quarter of a billion together with municipalities and provinces. I'll come back later when we come out on that. The goal is of course those 200,000 employees extra on the bike. That's what we're working on. Mr Paternotte rightly refers, of course, to the responsibility of municipalities and provinces for investment in local bicycle infrastructure. And I also sense a lot of enthusiasm and involvement for the bike in the region. There too the bike is really on the agenda. It's really nice to see. I have said that I have 100 million available and with that you cannot pave the whole country with bike highways. But the provinces and the municipalities are also willing to invest heavily. I have all the plans in the provinces and municipalities and in total there's really hundreds of millions of plans we could work on, so there's real ambition. I'll announce where we're gonna invest together in a month. The national budget for bicycle parking is 75 million and Mr Paternotte asked for bikes in particular. Part bike concepts also benefit from this. It was Mr Ziesgs who asked about the bikes. I research together with municipalities what contribution bikes can make to making better use of the storage capacity. For example, I'm going to see to what extent people are tempted to exchange their second bike at the arrival station for a bike, because otherwise there is actually a bike on two stations all day silent or one all day and the other all night. If we could work more with bikes, even at the arrival stations, that might make more possible. Again this year many bicycle sheds have been built and delivered. In this way, together with partners, I was able to open a beautiful storage facility in Maastricht. A total of 17,500 stables have been added. If Mr Ziengs imagines how many cars that saves in the city centre, he knows better than anyone how much congestion that saves. There will also be more ov-bikes. That was also a question from Mr Ziengs. This year there will be 6,000 additional OV-bikes. He also had a question about the small stations. That's exactly where I came from, Mr. Seengs. Yes, the NS has informed me that on more and more small stations there will also be OV-bikes for rent. I told you just now that 100 million cannot fill the Netherlands with fast bicycle paths, but the Infrastructure Fund is being transformed into the Mobility Fund and the Minister and I want to work with this fund in its entirety. She just explained that. Then the bike also gets a place, next to roads, rail and water. So in that context we will also regularly examine the usefulness of the bike with each other. This spring I come together with IPO and VNG with the National Bicycle Agenda 2.0, in which we want to put together a lot of the ongoing and new agreements, so that we can monitor the agreements and see how far we are with our ambition to get those 200,000 employees extra on the bike. Then the bike ambassadors. I've just referred to it. What do they do and what can we expect? The great thing is that you are very active in these bicycle ambassadors within their own organisation, but also other employers are really actively involved. A good example is the University Medical Centre Groningen. That's gonna make a deal with eight other university medical centers to get those people on their bikes everywhere. You also see other concepts. This is within a sector, but one of the companies that was also at the table was Fujifilm in Tilburg. They said: we really want to start communicating with all the companies in this business area and also with the municipality. Because of course the municipality is not going to build a bike path if no one is cycling, but no one is going to cycle if there is no bike path. Perhaps by making such an appointment with a municipality there is a profit on behalf of an entire association of companies. Not only for large companies, but also for small companies, it can be interesting. Zalsman is such an SME company, a printing company from Zwolle. It has said that via VNO-NCW it would like to tell other SMEs how to do it and what the benefits are, both for the employer and, of course, especially for the employee. Not only in terms of finance, because it really saves a lot if instead of a second car you just have a bike in the barn, but it also saves a lot for your health. So all these ambitions help to get people on a bike and so we contribute to less emissions, so cleaner air, but it's also a good way to reduce all the crowds in our inner cities. Mr President, then I can come up with my circular economy. Our country is working hard to make our economy circular, and that is also very necessary, because if we are going to a world where 10 billion people live and which 10 billion people are also more prosperous, then we are just going to use a lot more raw materials together. Then we can try to find new planets, but it's easier to make good use of the raw materials we have. That is what the circular economy is about: an economy with as little waste as possible in which raw material does not come from an oil vessel, but from a waste bag. That is how concrete it is, I say to Mrs Van Eijs, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mrs Kröger and everyone who has asked questions about it. And that circular economy is also helping to meet those climate goals. In fact, if we want to achieve these climate targets, we will really have to look beyond energy alone. Then we also have to look at the side of the raw materials. The government wants to set a good example by buying in circularly. With that we want to emit 1 megaton less CO. I welcome the transition agendas that are now in place from the main sectors of our economy. Now it's about execution. We're working hard on that. I am working on this in my department, but also the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of EZK, even the Ministry of OCW and the Ministry of VWS are working hard on it. Of course, the Chamber will also inform about this, with the implementation agenda and later with the progress letter. Mrs Van Eijs had a question about the acceleration house, but first a question about the circular economy. I'm translating it a little freely. She asked: how does the circular economy get home? And when you're home, how do you know what to do or how to contribute if you want to? Consumers' choices are extremely important. That is why this is a very important question. Of course, consumers are looking at market conditions. Is it also a bit of an attractive product? Is the price good? Does it look nice? But also: do I know how to deal with it? In the cabinet response circular economy attention is paid to the behaviour of consumers. Awareness and public communication are important in this respect. Mrs Van Eijs asked about that. And organisations such as Environment Central do indeed play an important role. But it is also interesting that in the field of behavioral knowledge at the Ministry of IenW we have a "behavioural insights team," in good Dutch. We'll see if there's a nice other term for that, but this is the term that came out, not surprisingly, England. In it we work together with a number of other departments and experts in a knowledge network in the field of behaviour. And we're looking at what works if you wanted to let people know how to contribute at home in a good way. Relevant knowledge institutes such as RIVM, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, TNO and the Food Centre are also working together. They shall also make their knowledge available as far as possible and make it accessible to consumers. Speaking of the PBL, this will be the key element in a knowledge network that we are setting up to map and monitor the progress of the circular economy. Mrs Dik-Faber, and I also think Mrs Teunissen, asked about the waste collection at NS. The green deal on waste separation and reduction at NS stations aims to make a maximum contribution to that transition to the circular economy. NS and ProRail have been researching the way they can best do that in recent years. Their course is to separate wells and separate what can be done. What does that mean? Paper and organic waste are separated at source as much as possible. Only what remains will be divorced. This is now being done at 12 major stations. Mrs Teunissen said that waste-sorters do not want that waste because it is called industrial waste. She said that this problem also affects other sectors. I can see that this is also happening in other places, and I am prepared to look for a solution to this problem. I take this into account in the implementation agenda of the Rijkswide programme Circular Economy. So it's on the agenda and we're going to see if we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u179	I also welcome the written reply of the Secretary of State on the Accelerator House. In that she already explains a little more what the intention is. I understand that not everything can be explained or put into hard targets. I assume that will be included in the implementation agenda. But why am I asking? We have a monitor of the PBL in which we are going to get more and more clearly what that circular means. I would also like our money to be used as best we can, and we will be able to actually see what the contribution will be if we get a form of explanation of the acceleration house in that implementation agenda. So can the Secretary of State indicate that, when the acceleration house is in place and companies are able to carry out circular initiatives, we are going to say: that will have to contribute about that much, and that will have to make for so much less primary raw material use or so much less waste somewhere in a landfill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u180	I understand very well that Mrs Van Eijs asks how we monitor, how we "smart" how far we get with the circular economy. I think this question is even broader than just the Acceleration House. That is absolutely one of the elements of the mandate I gave to the PBL. If we want to know if we are making progress, we also need to know how to make it sad. By the way, the Acceleration House is not something that only the government puts money in. In addition to money, which, of course, is needed to organise such a process, it will also be possible for companies to finance it. That's something we're also putting in the map. We also have things like Invest-NL. There are all kinds of options to look at funding options later. But I understand Mrs Van Eijs' question in this way: how do we make sure that it is also sad how the circular economy develops? We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u181	I have a question about the waste separation at NS stations. The Secretary of State just indicated what the strategy of the NS is: source separation what needs to be, separation what can be. But that's kind of complicated to me. If you do that strictly, you'll get to: paper and the rest. We already did that in the seventies of the last century. We even see that what is separated is thrown into one pile by the NS. I'm sure there's all kinds of reasons for that, but I can't explain it. My daughter needs to put plastic trash in the PMD bin at home. If I travel with her in public transport and I say to her, "you put plastic bag with the rest of the garbage," it won't work with my daughter. I don't think that's how it works for most people. I would very much like to see us recycle at stations as much as we do at home. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u182	I have to say quite frankly that I have to share Mrs Dik-Faber's uncomfortable feeling when she throws her plastic in the bin for the rest of the waste at the station. I've got that myself. I also always separate my plastic neatly and then it feels really weird when you have to throw it there with the waste. I am prepared to discuss with the NS what is their reason for not collecting the plastic separately at the moment and whether they are prepared to consider doing so separately. Indeed, a lot of people who divorce their plastic neatly at home and don't know it's being divorced feel like they're throwing it in jail for the rest of the waste. Mr President, that brings me to the plastic block, so that is a seamless transition. A number of MPs mentioned Boyan Slat as an inspirational example. I can only confirm that. During the climate summit in September he gave me beautiful sunglasses, made of the plastic he had fished up. A fine example of circular economy. It is very important that we clean up plastic and make useful things of it, but it is of course even better to prevent plastic from entering our environment. We're working hard on that. That is why I announced yesterday that we are going to apply a very strict standard for plastic in our soil and dredging soil, because plastic does not belong in the soil, just as it does not belong in the water. That is what the Minister and I are working together on. For example, we want to tackle microplastic in water with a view to water quality. The Minister has made EUR 5 million available for this purpose. It's very nice that we're hanging out in that together. As far as the rivers are concerned, it is important that we work together with the countries that lie upstream on the rivers. I've already talked to colleagues about that. We'll tell you more about that later. Then Mrs Van Eijs asked a question about the ban on single-use plastics. This should reduce by 2050, but what can we reduce already? At European level, agreements are made to stop using different types of disposable plastic because there are simply sustainable alternatives to it. Then why would you make it out of plastic, which is often burned or into the environment? You're talking about straws, cotton swabs and stuff like that. But my ambition goes beyond the single-use plastics mentioned by the Commission. I would like to agree a plastic pact with companies and relevant organisations to take steps to implement this directive. The details will follow as soon as the directive is adopted, because they also refer to cigarette butts. They contain plastics and they often end up in the environment. We want to address this within the EU through the single-use plastics directive. In the EU, my commitment is that cigarette butt producers are also simply responsible for the cost of cleaning up the litter and for the cost of raising consumer awareness. So, producer responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u183	That raises a question from Mr Ziengs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u184	I have just mentioned in an interruption that was also aimed at Article 5.3 of the Treaty on European Union that it is apparently common in Europe that there is no contact with the tobacco industry. However, it seems to me quite logical that contact should then be made with the tobacco industry as to whether they are willing to do something about these filters voluntarily, rather than imposing a mandatory obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u185	I've had a little more time to figure out exactly what's going on. Mr Ziegs rightly referred to Article 5.3 of the WTO Framework Convention. It states that "cooperation with the tobacco lobby in public campaigns against smoking, other public events or activities carried out under the heading of corporate social responsibility is contrary to Article 5.3 of the WHO Framework Convention." This means that there can be no contact from the government with the tobacco industry, unless it is about the drafting of regulations. So there has to be that regulation first. And then we can start talking about how it's worked out. But out there, it's in violation of that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u186	Isn't it strange that you can't be in touch again and again? I also know that Article 5.3. I've read that differently. It's been explained differently once, too. So apparently we are putting a huge exclamation mark behind it. Surely it cannot be that, if you intend to regulate this area, you are not trying to ensure, in advance, with the parties in this area that they cooperate to at least make something that is environmentally friendly? I mean, you throw a cigar right into nature, because it's a tobacco leaf and that rots away, eventually. In my opinion, that should also be possible with a cigarette. And that's unrelated to what you think about smoking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u187	Of course, I just have to follow the rules that exist. But I am sure that the tobacco industry is really following the discussions on this issue, and I also know that cigarette butts are clearly on the retina. Of course, they can always decide independently to come up with suggestions on what they would be willing to do. It is not up to me to discuss this with them. You can't do that. But good ideas are not just lost either. As far as I am concerned, I am focusing on European legislation in this case. My commitment is to anchor the producer responsibility that is proposed in the directive, because we really need to do something about it. And as for that microplastic that's in those filters, I think very few consumers realize that if they throw away a cigarette like that, they're really throwing away a piece of plastic. We're really gonna have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u188	Another question from Mr Ziengs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u189	I know I'm making my interruptions on this subject. But it triggers me. It's very simple. The Secretary of State says that I cannot discuss this with the tobacco industry. I have a different opinion on that. I think that's okay. It is really weird that you are already threatening product liability to a producer in advance if you do not even allow them to enter into the conversation about what requirements for a filter have to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u190	It is in the European Commission's proposal. So the discussion is over there. It is therefore not a unilateral proposal from the Netherlands. The European Commission has proposed this in the directive. I think it is important that we do something about it. I do not know if the European Commission has been in contact with this industry, but generally all legislative proposals are consulted and there is always an opportunity to comment in such consultation. Many of the European Commission's important initiatives are also subject to consultation. I should like to check for Mr Ziegs whether such a consultation has taken place on this subject, so that he knows if there has been an opportunity for industry to contribute. I get that point of his. I think it's real, too. So I'll check it out. Before I continue with the Plastic Summit, just a little bit in between. Mr Ziegs referred to the written reply on consumption tax on sugar-free drinks and spring water. That is ahead of the discussions that are still under way on the National Prevention Agreement, so I have to correct that part of the reply. Secretary of State Blokhuis is still in busy discussions and expects to be able to present a National Prevention Agreement later this month. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the Plastic Summit. What are we gonna do there? You first have negotiations on a European directive and then there is an implementation period and sometimes an implementation period. In advance of this implementation, I want to make agreements with companies that would like to get to work faster with me in a plastic pact. Companies can make other, more sustainable choices in reducing unnecessary use, in differently designing, in re-using or recycling plastic products and packaging, so it's voluntary but it's not non-binding. The plastic pact I will conclude will also include monitoring arrangements. If you say you're gonna do that, I'm counting on you to do that, and I'm gonna keep track of that, too. This is a joint approach, which will contain very different agreements. The beauty of such a plastic pact is that we can include all the contributions. There are already many companies that want to participate. More than 40 companies have come forward. These sectors are diverse: supermarkets, packaging companies, fast food chains, food groups. You may have noticed that I was only at the Amsterdam Dance Event, where I received a very nice bowl of recycled plastic, with all the pledges from a lot of parties. A lot of festivals are trying to reduce their waste plastic by 50%, for example, within three years. It's about massive pledges, lots of lots that use a lot of material. I'm very happy about that. My goal is to gather all these voluntary pledges so that these companies can see what they can achieve with each other. Then my goal is to take that Dutch pact with me to Europe. I intend to organise a Plastic Summit together with a number of environmental ministers, prior to the Environment Council, in the spring, where they collect and take the pledges from their country, so that we can show what we are doing in Europe to reduce plastic and send that signal at the global level, to inspire other parties, to initiate what is possible and to do it above all. Mr Van Aalst asked whether there was any point in going ahead with this plastic. Yeah, that makes perfect sense. When we tell others to clean up their mess, you have to make sure you do it yourself. That is why I think it is very important that we get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u191	I welcome this reply from the Secretary of State, because that is in line with what I said in the first term. We've been asking written questions. The Secretary of State states that the share of plastic in the Netherlands is negligible. The mess comes from someone else, so let whoever makes that mess start with themselves first. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that she should spend her time in other countries pointing to their mess instead of starting to clean up another's mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u192	What would Mr Van Aalst think of pointing out to others about their mess, while he himself doesn't clean up his own mess? I think it's legitimate that you have the argument to tell others to clean up their mess, if you do it yourself. If your own house is a mess, you can't tell others to do it. It is precisely because some countries make such a big contribution to this plastic soup that we have every interest in setting a good example as the Netherlands, so that we can tell others that they must also get to work, for all of us, but above all in our own interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u193	That's exactly the point: our house isn't a mess, because we got it done here. The mess comes from our colleagues. I think we should go to our neighbors and tell them to clean up their mess themselves, instead of dragging someone else's mess around. Indeed, we need to get our affairs in order, but we do. We're getting the shit from another gift. I call on the Secretary of State to say, "Let the rest of us clean up his own mess." Why does our taxpayers have to bleed for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u194	I am very pleased that Mr Van Aalst is already satisfied, but my ambitions continue. I think there's still too much plastic in our environment. You see what the effect is. You can see the effect is that microplastics are everywhere by now. You can find them under the Arctic cap, you can even find them in the human body. So we must all contribute to this. The only way to appeal to other countries to accept their responsibility is to show that we are doing the same ourselves. In addition, the Netherlands is a country that develops many technologies. I just mentioned Boyan Slat, but I would also like to refer to the Bubble Barrier. That is also a very nice innovative concept. We also find this an innovative way to extract plastic from rivers. Those are all things that the Minister and I are working on together. We are happy to contribute to this clean environment so that we can ask others to do what they have to do. Then I come to a question from Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Teunissen on recyclable packaging. My objective is to have only good recyclable packaging on the market by 2025. Many producers have that ambition too. Producers now have to comply with the "essential requirements" which are legally applicable, as it is called. This means that packaging must be designed in accordance with the waste hierarchy in such a way as to allow reuse and recycling and to limit the environmental impact. However, it is still possible with those essential requirements to incinerate packaging "useful to use' if it is too expensive to recycle the packaging. So my ambition is higher than the essential requirements set now. I am therefore very pleased with the tariff differentiation. This is an important step to make packaging more recyclable. It simply means that when a producer markets a packaging that is easily recyclable, it pays less than when it markets a packaging that is poorly recyclable. And the difference is considerable, because it saves 40%. So there is now a real boost to move on to the packaging that is easily recyclable. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Van Eijs asked how we get left behind municipalities to collect plastics separately. Agreements have been made with the VNG on waste separation. They're contained in a covenant. Many municipalities already score well, but there are also really left behind. Of course, we'll start the conversation with them. It is important that municipalities have sufficient ambition with their waste policy. I'm on top of that. I will also explicitly discuss the evaluation of the VANG programme with the VNG. We made a deal about this. I will also ask the VNG how it will keep its end of the bargain. The Circular Economy implementation programme will also include support for municipalities where many improvements are still possible. So we also like to do some extras on our side of course. We'll make an extra effort to get that. Particular attention is paid to improving the quality of sub-flows. And I have announced that we will continue to work towards more waste separation et cetera. So we're working hard on that. Mrs Van Eijs asked whether there was fraud and how we could discourage the import of plastic waste. I have already promised the Chamber that I will analyse the various incentives available for the landfill, incineration and marketing of imported plastic, or, in fact, of waste in the broad sense, because I want to see if all incentives, including for plastic waste, are working in the right direction. I'll inform the Chamber about that around the summer of 2019. Then it's about fraud. Based on risk profiles, the ILT structuralally controls cross-border shipments of waste in the port. That's what she does with Customs and the police. Special attention will be paid to the transport of plastics. Since this is, of course, inherently international, the ILT exchanges information with other authorities and cooperates on waste fraud detection requests. I think it is important to draw attention to this in a European context. Especially now that China has closed the market and the pressure is increasing, we need to be extra careful to prevent waste from leaking. We must do this together with other European countries. During the last dinner I had with some of my ambitious environmental colleagues, the so-called REACH UP Group, we have already discussed this. Mr. Chairman. I need my block of clean and safe living environment. Then I have another question from the other block. No, I already answered that question. So all I have left is the block of clean and safe living environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u195	Good. Mrs Dik-Faber has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u196	I have two more questions about the packaging. I'll put them neatly in two interruptions. I am very happy that manufacturers are now being encouraged to use recyclable packaging. But how can I, as a consumer, know where to go with my packaging? I count myself among the reasonably environmentally conscious consumers, but I am in my hand every week with an article that I think is helping, which bin? It's just real searching. Where can this consumer go?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u197	That is a fair question from Mrs Dik-Faber. I think she put him in her input, too, but I'm not sure anymore. At least it's such a recognizable question, maybe because I have it myself sometimes. I propose to Mrs Dik-Faber that I put this question to the packaging industry and ask how we can solve this. Because they also have an interest in ensuring that all these packagings are recycled and that we work together to ensure that it is not only theoretically easily recyclable, but that consumers also know in what container that packaging should be in. A fair question from Mrs Dik-Faber. I sometimes stand with something in my hand that I think: what shall I do? That's what we're gonna look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u198	Next question, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u199	I thank the Secretary of State for this commitment. My second question: is there also an incentive somewhere in the system to use less packaging material? In the meantime, everyone knows the apples you bought loose a while ago. Now you have a bowl of a kind of paper pulp with apples on it, plastic around it and an expiration date. I'm thinking, actually, that packaging material we don't need. The toothpaste is also known: the toothpaste tube with the cardboard around it. You don't have to do all that. Where is the incentive for industry to take a big step towards reducing packaging?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u200	The fact that every producer has to pay for all the packaging material he places on the market is, of course, an incentive in itself. You can avoid costs if you bring fewer packaging on the market. So there is already a financial incentive in that. Now we're making a big difference. There is a 40% difference between packaging that is difficult to recycle and packaging that is easily recyclable. But I see this as a question from Mrs Faber whether we can reconsider whether there is an even stronger incentive to reduce unnecessary packaging. I actually hear Mrs Faber say that. Is a cardboard around a tube of toothpaste really necessary? And is there perhaps a discussion about this with the packaging industry? Of course, packaging is often a very important part of your product. I understand that, too. But I imagine we're still talking about this point. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the clean and safe living environment. We're working very hard on that. We do this through the commitment to air quality and the commitment to environmental safety. We also have a lot of conversations with the chemical industry and, of course, we are working on the circular economy. This is all important for our environment. There was a question from Mr Van Aalst, but I have already answered it. Mrs Kröger had another question about financial liability and the multi-stakeholder approach. I think that we, as a Chamber, have indeed had a very good debate on this. I tasted broad support in the Chamber to get to work on this. I am therefore in the process of implementing the von Martels/Van Eijs motion, which asks me to analyse the group of cases where the risk is greatest and to make it clear with which instruments can be avoided that the taxpayer will ultimately pay for residual costs. That is what the Chamber asked in the broadest sense. The example of financial collateral was also mentioned in the motion. We're mapping them. There is absolutely a lot of work to be done on this. The aim is, of course, to improve compliance with the rules by underprivileged companies who knowingly fail to comply and to avoid costs for taxpayers. When you finally talk about costs, there's often the moment when a company is really bankrupt. Of course, you also want recidivism to have a price. That's the multi-stakeholder approach. They will be addressed on the basis of the established national enforcement strategy. Recidive is an important reason for maintaining criminal law in addition to administrative action, with a higher fine or stricter supervision. These are two tracks that can reinforce each other, I say to Mrs Kröger. The IPO is currently running a quick scan. I'm also talking to the Board of Directors. This relates to financial collateral. I hope to inform you about that quick scan at the beginning of next year. Then Mr von Martels asked about the subsidy pot for the clean-up of asbestos: has that already reached the bottom? No, not yet, but that's going to happen in 2019. So there's still money in 2019, but in 2019 we're going to exhaust that budget of up to 75 million. I also informed you of this in the legislative consultation on 10 October. So money will still be paid in 2019: even more than 10% of the total amount. But when we run out, we're out. I would like to say, then, that we should have a different form of support for people who have an asbestos roof to clean. The subsidy was intended for an acceleration. We have achieved this, but we must now move on to other forms of funding. In that debate, a motion was adopted that asked me to create a national fund with the SVn Foundation and local authorities. And I did set this meeting in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u201	I see both Mrs Kröger and Mr von Martels at the interrupting microphone. Let me take a look at Mrs Kröger. Do you have a question with this answer? Otherwise, I'd like to go to the Von Martels first. I understand Mr. Von Martels can go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u202	It's a clear answer from the Secretary of State. It surprises me anyway that there is still money in 2019, because there has been a lot of confusion in the field: is there or is there not a subsidy possible? I also mentioned that €4.50 in the first term. Is it still available or not? And you now mention that even in 2019 funds are still available. Can you estimate how long these funds are still in the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u203	Theoretically they are of course in the market throughout 2019, but we do it on the basis of the requests as they come in. The aim of this subsidy was to accelerate. That works, because it's happening really fast. So I honestly expect those resources to be exhausted quickly. And so we need to speed up the financial instrument. That is why I immediately started the discussion, in accordance with the motion on this matter tabled by you and Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u204	In addition to this, the explicit request to communicate at least properly, because the uncertainty that exists at present is devastating for many people. In addition, the fact that the deposit costs have gone sky-high. So a lot of people who are now cleaning up are facing quite a financial setback if it turns out that this €4.50 is not available. If these additional costs are also used, it will be a great deal. So please communicate well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u205	Sure. It is incredibly important that you know what you can and can't count on before you start a rehabilitation project. So I'd like to take that to heart. We will ensure that there is good communication about the possibilities within these resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u206	I am very happy to hear that the Secretary of State is really working on this multi-stakeholder approach. I think that's very important. There are companies that make mistakes over and over again. This costs society a lot of money and is bad for the environment. The Secretary of State just outlined those two paths. Then my question is: how can we set up this system of fines in such a way that fines are raised incrementally for repeaters, and that the environmental damage involved is also taken into account? The system of fines would then be more appropriate to the impact of these types of companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u207	I understand Mrs Kröger's question very well. The National Enforcement Strategy also provides for higher fines the more frequent they occur. So it's possible. The question is whether this is always entirely proportionate to the damage suffered. I can't confirm that with 100% certainty. It is also questionable whether this is always proportionate within a system of fines. But let me say to Mrs Kröger that I am prepared to discuss this question again with the Ministry of Justice and Security, which is responsible for this. Because I understand the intention. You want a fine to have a real deterrent effect. Your question is whether a link can be established with the damage. I'll discuss that question. So I can't make a commitment, except that I'm willing to discuss that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u208	I am glad for that, because that means that it is on the agenda and that we can also deepen it further. My second question concerns the same point, because there are several aspects to such a multi-stakeholder approach. The Bibob is already widely used in the hospitality industry, but can we not develop a directive to use it more specifically in companies where there is risk? For example, at Tuf, a company that already had a whole history, it was with a Bibob that surfaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u209	I have also dealt with this point in the written reply. That point also lies with the Ministry of Justice and Security. I have to browse back for the answer. I just can't find it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u210	Maybe in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u211	I am happy to return to this question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u212	I have received a written response to our question as to whether it is not time for a national plan of noise pollution. However, the answer I have received is not very clear to me. Could the Secretary of State perhaps clarify that further? For clean air, we have instruments: the Clean Air Agreement and the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme, but why do we get this vague answer when we know that a third of households suffer from noise pollution? This also entails health risks. Then why didn't you go into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u213	There are national noise plans, both for railways and for aviation. These are the national action plans to which I refer in the answer. When a track is constructed, noise loads are also considered. It looks at where noise production ceilings are exceeded and where action can be taken. That's all in those plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u214	I would ask the Secretary of State to do so in writing. I hope she will do so in order to go further in writing. It says here: Source Policy Action Plans. That sounds very fragmented, while we would like to have a national plan. If you say that that is quite covering or comprehensive, then those five sentences that stand here do not do justice to what is really at stake. So a friendly request to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u215	Sure. I'd be happy to. We can explain that a little bit more. If Mrs Van Brenk is okay with it, I will take it with me in a collection letter on a number of points about the environment. But I can explain this further. Absolutely. Mr President, I think I have come to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u216	I'm actually missing something, but I thought I'd wait and see if it might come back to the cup. I am missing something which is an important priority: social security. And I'm missing something about our motion for a text message. There will be a very brief answer to that. In her speech, I expected the Secretary of State to pay more attention to social security in public transport than to discuss extra waste bins at the station.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u217	Do you mind if I do and-and? Mr Van Aalst is quite right to ask a number of questions about this. We replied in writing, but I also think it is right that he should like to hear orally that the Secretary of State attaches importance to this. I absolutely do. I recently went to work in Rotterdam to hear from the people on the ground with whom they come into contact and what works for them and what doesn't work. It is extremely important that we pay a great deal of attention to social security. We also discussed the role played by a bodycam. I think it is very important to hear the experiences of people in practice and to see whether we are making the right arrangements. I know that Mr Van Aalst tabled a motion on a text message a while ago. This gives you the opportunity, when you feel unsafe or when something happens on the train, to report it to the conductor. Trials are also carried out. Before the end of the year, I will come back to the possibilities of an alert app for social security in public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u218	I would like to comment briefly on two issues relating to air quality. Part of the answer has already been given in the written reply. This included moustache bikes on the road. It was indicated that the regulations were adapted to allow road managers on busy cycle paths to move the moustache bikes to the lane. It looks at how busy the cycle path is, but it might also be good to look at peak moments of fine dust emissions. Would the Secretary of State like to see if, for example, at peak moments, in rush hour, the moustache cyclists could go to the lane, so that cyclists do not have to cycle between the ramparts of the moustache cyclists?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u219	Amsterdam is doing an experiment now. We can discuss with Amsterdam whether they think it is possible to measure this, but I must give Mrs Van Eijs a small warning. Of course, it's kind of hard to measure. If only a narrow line separates the bike path from the lane, they may still be very close together. I do not know if that difference can be measured, but a test is being started in Amsterdam and we can put the question whether they think they can take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u220	Another aspect that we have discussed before concerns the bully diesels. I asked about the role of the DMV. The European Parliament voted on Thursday to tighten up the surveillance of the car industry. As I understand it, the ILT can then, even after a vehicle has been approved, carry out samples. They can therefore, from 2020 onwards, check a number of cars that have already been approved to see if they do. This may seem like a good way to intercept new shuffling techniques in practice. Is it the intention of the Netherlands to see if we can really take these cars off the road in practice? That may be a bit clumsy, but are we going to see if those cars in practice meet the requirements we have set?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u221	I think it is very important that people who buy a car have an honest picture of what the car emits. That is why I am very happy that we have been able to tighten up all the tests. There is now really a test that is not a roller bench test, where the exterior mirrors are screwed off and the car is glued up to achieve low emissions. There's a test that's going to really show what the emissions are on the road. But we also need to stay focused on cheating. You might hope that the car industry has learned a lot from what has happened now and that it doesn't happen anymore, but I'm happy with the possibility that there is. I think it might be the RDW instead of the ILT that can make use of that possibility, but where it is, it will certainly be used, if there is any reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u222	In my first term, I had asked for attention to be paid to biofuels. That's what my question is about. It has been answered in writing, but I would ask for clarification. The government is considering increasing the mandatory incorporation of biofuels for transport, but according to the PBL, the future supply of biofuels is uncertain. My group's concern is that this leads to far more sustainability risks, so biofuels are also used as palm oil and food crops, which is not sustainable. Food crops then compete with our food supply. In addition, in the circular economy, it is much better not to burn these nutrients, but to use them and bring them back into the cycle. So my question is: how does the Secretary of State guarantee that if we increase the rate of incorporation, no more food crops will enter the tank?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u223	We guarantee this because we have a cap of 5% in the Netherlands, which is the maximum volume of biofuels to be mixed with first generation biofuels in the total amount of biofuels. The European threshold is higher. You can mix Europewide up to 7%. We have lower rates in the Netherlands, because we have exactly the same concerns as Mrs Teunissen. In the Netherlands, therefore, we are already stricter than in the rest of Europe on the amount of biofuels that can be added. So when it comes to increasing the total amount of biofuels, they must be advanced biofuels, and that cap is legally established.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u224	I had asked another question about the increased concentrations of PFOA around Chemours in the Alblasserwaard and at Custom Powders in Helmond, which processes chemicals for Chemours. In the written reply I see that PFO has not been used for five years and that it remains in our environment for a very long time. I am very much wondering the following. Measurements at Chemours themselves have shown that they are still releasing PFOA. Is this not also due to discharges that are still taking place? In the Alblasserwaard a huge high concentration has been found, which is above the standard. Can we see that it is real from 2013 or older, or is it still being discharged, and is it still coming into our environment without a permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u225	Your question is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u226	You can't fire without a license. I have no reason to believe that it is now. These are persistent substances. That's why they're gonna be around for a long time. I do not have more information than this for Mr Laçin at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u227	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u228	I find it strange to say that there is no reason to say that there is still discharge, because in Dordrecht itself, near Chemours, the province measured it four times in the summer and found it four times. That is why I would like to invite the Secretary of State to take a look at it and perhaps inform us for external security on 22 November, if that still works. I have one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u229	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u230	Yes, a very short question. Yesterday I gave a whole list of environmental crime and things that go wrong in our environment. I am curious whether the Secretary of State thinks that the ILT is doing enough to prevent this kind of thing from happening in advance or whether we are in fact constantly chasing the facts and actually, together with the ILT, we should look closely at how we can tackle environmental crime in a structural manner before it comes to crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u231	I think, of course, that we must make sure that our joint efforts try to capture as much as possible at the front. I would be happy to inform the Chamber where there is further clarification as to the presence of PFOA around Chemours. I will see if there is anything more to report on this than what we have already reported to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u232	I have two more questions and one comment. The comment concerns the written reply of the Secretary of State. She writes that she is busy with the tri-country train. We hope that will go well, but we also hope for a level playing field. It cannot be that the Belgians impose stricter requirements and we go along with them and make lower demands on our side. I hope that together we can find a solution there and that three-country train will run as quickly as possible. The first follow-up question is about the national diluted timetable. The Secretary of State states that Lodov's opinions will be taken over. Locov is particularly concerned about the logistics of personnel and equipment. They have little confidence in being taken over, while they see a lot of advantage in running the trains even in winter weather. My question is whether the Secretary of State would like to discuss this again with the organisations involved, such as NS and ProRail. I have one last question. I thank you for the answers, including on the BDU funds, but we think they are really too limited. Two regions are now being targeted. In a separate letter, would the Secretary of State care to elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u233	That was your last question. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u234	The first two questions I answer with yes. It's always important that we make sure we have a serious conversation about the signals coming from the Locov. If there's any questions there, I'd like to know what's going on. We'll check it out again. Of course, I am very committed to achieving that tri-country train. It would be very nice if in that region, between those three countries, that train could just run without limit. We can say that, for our part, we are doing everything in our power to allow it to be driven, and that is why we have committed ourselves and given the Belgian carrier space on the Dutch network. I have already discussed it with my Belgian colleague on a regular basis that we must ensure that those beautiful, brand new trains that are actually ready to drive from Maastricht to Liège can actually cross the border. So I am fully committed to that. As far as the BDU funds are concerned, I think that these two provinces have mainly been mentioned as examples. That's not so much an exhausting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u235	I have one last question about the ILT. That's a point I'm very worried about. We have also tabled an amendment to that effect. This has actually been done in connection with the debate on the Stint. In that we saw that the ILT may not have had a statutory supervisory role, but it does have a signaling role, which it always has to identify new risks. I also have this concern in the case of emerging substances, in the case of chemistry, in the field covered by the Secretary of State. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss with the ILT whether the current capacity it has provides sufficient assurance for the issuing function? Or is everything simply conjured up by the enforcement tasks that it has, of course, also?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u236	As the Minister's reply has just shown, the Minister and I consider it important that the ILT can also function as "eye and ears" in the field. I think this fits in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u237	Thank you. In this way, the Secretary of State has also come to the end of the first-term reply. I suggest that we proceed directly to the second term. I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst for his second term. He's got three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u238	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is certain; every day it gets worse and worse. To solve those files, it's a matter of making choices. The PVV chooses asphalt. The PVV has therefore tabled an amendment to structurally invest 1 billion in our roads. Now the rest of the Chamber can also make a choice. Furthermore, the PVV stands for social security in public transport at number 1, as I mentioned just now. We therefore do not accept thugs, like that asylum chorem last week in Ter Apel. We want tough enforcement. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the British railway police are stationed at the larger British railway stations;]] [[noting that the British railway police are releasing its track twice as quickly as the Dutch Infrastructure Service in handling, for example, suicide;]] [[Whereas stationing the police at the larger train stations ensures that insecurity and crime are dealt with more quickly on and around the railway;]] [[calls on the Government to station the Railways Department of the Infrastructure Service at the larger railway stations in future, so that the railway police will be visible again to rail passengers and railway staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u239	Yes, and I see my colleague from the VVD wants to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u240	I am going to give the floor to Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u241	I'm glad the PVV, like the VVD, is fighting for more money for asphalt. They've made a valiant effort to do that. What's so disappointing to me now is the cover. Why is it so particularly bad? As cover you have the budget for the Wbso for innovation. That's a tax scheme. First of all, do you know who these tax advantages go to? Secondly, are you aware that your own colleague Mr Graus was still very much in favour of this arrangement last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u242	It is remarkable that a colleague of the VVD, who has just cut 6 billion on our infrastructure and returns with a tip of 3 billion, is now pointing out that we do not have adequate cover for 1 billion structuralally. That means 3 billion more in the coming years. The Wbso scheme is a scheme that stimulates innovation. We have a very clear opinion. That is that innovation must come from the market itself. That is very simple and very clear. We choose that SMEs are not in the middle of a traffic jam. That is why we want to build asphalt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u243	Thank you. Very short rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u244	Two-thirds of the money goes to that SME guy. This is just a stupid plan. This is a dumb cover. Then you should have provided better cover and also talked to your colleague about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u245	Yeah, yeah. Fantastic comment from the VVD about stupid plans. That's what you call a coalition agreement these days. But, Mr. Chairman, it says more about the level of the VVD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u246	Thank you for your input. I shall begin by looking at Mr Ziengs. Mr Ziengs and Mr Dijkstra have a total of eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u247	Thank you, Mr President. In the written reply, the Secretary of State came back to asbestos restructuring and its acceleration. I would just like to point out that, in the discussion I have had in the past, I referred to the role of insurers, who can contribute to this. I have also mentioned the sustainability, for example the installation of solar panels on roofs of farm sheds, where I mentioned Limburg as an example at the time. The written answer also refers to the KNMI, in response to a question about the so-called benchmark. However, only overhead costs have been addressed. I specifically said that the hourly rate is apparently being increased in order to achieve a better earning model. Now it's only zoomed in on an earlier investigation when it comes to overhead costs. I did not ask for that and I would like a more specific answer. Next, a report on the Belgium-Netherlands railway, in which Belgium now clearly imposes additional requirements. I just saw an article come by in NRC. I'd like the Secretary of State's reflection on that. How does she handle this rail war, as NRC calls it? Finally, I would like to say a few words about the filters in question, which I have just interrupted three times. I once, as a spokesperson, faced smoking policy with a letter from a rather extremist club at the Bureau. Once upon a time, there was also a party that thought it needed to speak something about this in a debate. Then it turned out that the Presidium has neatly figured out what the role of the representative of the people might be. Apparently, I was allowed to do that, so I'm offering the Secretary of State to make those contacts to see if they're willing to do something about that filter. After all, the whole of the Netherlands is turned upside down, but also the Chamber, when it comes to deposit money alliances. But when in that top five those filters are called, everyone apparently puts their heads in the sand. Thank you, Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u248	Thank you. Then there is a brief question from Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u249	I heard my colleague Ziengs of the VVD in the first term pulling out hard at the rigging in public transport and I heard him about the permanent ban on transport. That's special in itself. I welcome the turn of the VVD, as they did not support us in 2011 in the adopted amendment to extend transport bans. So it's already in the pocket for that matter. But what is my colleague of the VVD going to do now? Are you going for a permanent transport ban or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u250	In my first speech, I made it very clear that we expect action from the Secretary of State, of course in conjunction with Justice and Security, in order to tackle the bastards in public transport. I also indicated in my first term that I found the input of the PVV very short, especially the introduction that was mentioned. In short, it has our attention and we do believe that this ban should be looked at explicitly when it comes to these assholes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u251	Short closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u252	When it comes to the asylum equipment that terrorises our public transport, all words are allowed for the PVV. Can we count on the VVD to simply impose a total ban on such assholes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u253	Mr Van Aalst once again raised the issue of asylum seekers, which he related to them. I found that a very special example, because recently in Groningen a goalkeeper of a well-known football club showed this kind of behaviour as a black rider. So I see that it can simply be drawn much wider and do not come up with examples of footballers who seem to do so. So I think it's best to name the problem, but you shouldn't specifically involve a whole group of people. When it comes to dealing with these figures, we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u254	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Dijkstra. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've asked some questions about the Maut. We'll talk about it later. As a VVD we have a lot to worry about and think that care should be paramount, because haste is rarely good. The initial studies show that this could result in 1,250 to 1,750 jobs being lost and that the environmental gains on emissions are 0% to 2% for, among other things, fine dust and nitrogen. That's not much! And only 1% to 6% less charges because you have that Maut. I am, of course, also afraid that it will be passed on to the consumer. It is a great fear that the trucks will run on the N-roads, where we do not really want them, or that smaller vans will be used with more emissions. So we want to take a critical look at that and we really want to see that impact and consequences before we go there. Mr President, I have two questions, particularly to my colleagues. In my first term, I already made the point. There's going to be a Strategic Road Safety Plan. We can only assess this when that plan is in place, but we do know that road safety is a national priority for a great many of us, including in the government agreement. A broad alliance thinks about it, but we also see that there is actually no money reserved for it. At least, there is some reservation for for example the N-roads. The minister already referred to it. But that does not apply to all kinds of projects that you could do to support and hunt things in the regions and the municipalities, think of quickscans for road safety, think of using data, think of warnings in risky situations, think of blind spot detections, think of digital visibility in the vehicle and also of vulnerable participants and think of... Well, you name it. Reference was also made to improving road safety in schools, the use of adaptive lighting and so on. I think that at some point we should also provide a budget for such a plan. My question to the parties here is whether or not we should discuss it with each other. Do you also consider road safety to be important and are you prepared to add butter to the fish? If so, I would like to have dinner with you next week, perhaps together, to do something about it. Mr President, I have a second question, including to my colleagues. It's a bit in the same vein.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u256	Now I am going to intervene, because we are not going to ask all kinds of questions to colleagues in the second term, because then we are going to move on to a third term. I would like to ask you for some restraint. I am going to give Mrs Kröger another interruption to Mr Dijkstra in a moment, but we are not going to ask questions to colleagues in the second term. Finish your speech, and not in an inquisitive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u257	Not in the inquisitive sense. What I would like to say to my fellow Members when they ask whether they want to think about this is the problem of congestion. We see the urgency of this, because we see that these traffic jams are increasing in the coming period. We're looking at $100 million for the short-term file approach. Could we, in a general sense, think about this through you, Mr President, to my fellow Members on stepping up this short-term file approach? Would you like to think about that, too? I have already heard from the Minister that she is open to that. She said, with more money, you can do more. We're seeing traffic jams increasing, and I think one and one are two. Perhaps my colleagues will be able to reflect and come back to that in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u258	Thank you. But there is another question from Mrs Kröger. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A question or an answer. Two questions from Mr Dijkstra, who in fact both raise the question whether Mr Dijkstra also sees that it is good for road safety and the handling of traffic jams to get people out of cars and into public transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u260	If that's possible, we're going to do the debate again now. That's nice. It's nice if you have those alternatives, but I also said that three quarters of the Dutch don't have that choice. They just live too far from the station or working on an industrial site where there is hardly any public transport. So we definitely need to improve that kind of thing. In road safety you have different degrees. We always want people to choose a safe method, but what that is, of course, they must be able to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u261	Finalizing, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u262	Mr Dijkstra's invitation was to think about this. How can we afford to do that? We have billions on the shelf until 2030, including in a key. The two elements mentioned by Mr Dijkstra were not taken into account. I think it would be very good to include that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u263	Then there is a question from Mr Van Aalst, also briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, actually. We have heard the Minister's reply on the truck tax. I just heard Mr. Dijkstra again about the truck tax, the Maut. Am I to understand that, like the PVV, he is not convinced of the Minister's support and does he not think that 100% of the money goes back to the sector? Do I understand from that that the VVD is currently arguing that the truck tax is under discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u265	Now you're going very fast. A truck tax is agreed in the coalition agreement. We have said that 100% of the proceeds must be returned to the sector. Of course, implementation costs are involved. I think it is important for this sector to be able to decide for itself what they are spending it on. Suggestions have been mentioned as reducing vehicle tax, innovation and sustainability, etc. But it's a deal. I do have serious doubts about how it will work out, and I absolutely want us to be involved as a Chamber. Of course I hope they follow the VVD-line in it, because then it might be a bit good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u266	Finalizing, Mr. Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that monkey comes out of the sleeve and that the 100% mentioned by Mr Dijkstra is indeed only about the income and that first the equipment costs have to be removed. The calculation of €10 in it and €8 comes back to the sector, so that they give €2 in, is indeed the calculation of the VVD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u268	I think you should keep the costs as low as possible, so that almost everything that is paid comes back of course. But you'll always have to do with the execution. That's what we have here in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u269	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Kröger for her second term. You have four minutes left on the clock. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got six motions. Those motions concern both aviation and the multi-stakeholder approach, the two things that I have asked the most attention to. I see a lot of movement from the Secretary of State on the need for a multi-stakeholder approach, but I am actually disappointed in how the Minister deals with the concerns surrounding the low-fly routes and the flight. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chicago Convention does not tax domestic flights and that many large countries normally levy excise duties and taxes on domestic flights;]] [[whereas Europe is now a single economic area and we are also moving towards a single European sky in practical and organisational terms;]] [[Considering that it is not unreasonable to consider all flights within Europe as domestic flights as referred to in the ICAO agreements and that, in practice, Europe is in line with the practice of the US and other large countries;]] [[calls on the government to consider how to achieve an agreement that will enable European countries to levy taxes on flights within Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u271	Yes, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the differences between the noise calculations of the EIA Lelystad Airport and the sound measurements of the experience flight caused more unrest than eliminated;]] [[noting that the former calculation model has still been used for the EIA Lelystad Airport, while the new European Doc.29 model is now being used for the EIA Schiphol;]] [[Whereas the Minister indicates that the new model works with many more parameters and can therefore approach reality much more accurately and in more detail;]] [[calls on the Government to send a letter to the Commission for the m.e.r. for advice on how the results of the experience flight relate to the research results from the MER Lelystad Airport, and what margins there can be between calculations and calculation model from the MER Lelystad Airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas crime should not pay;]] [[whereas most infringements of environmental rules are economically justified;]] [[Whereas administrative penalties for infringements of licensing rules are not directly linked to the potential damage to the environment and society of that infringement;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the system of fines can be revised so that social and environmental damage can become a starting point and that the fines for repeated offenders can be increased incrementally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas public authorities have to incur significant costs to investigate, grant and maintain applications for environmental permits;]] [[Whereas, as a result of the Environment Act, the licensing system will be modified and local authorities will be given greater responsibility for granting and maintaining permits;]] [[Whereas high costs and financial risks should not be considered for a government to conduct good research or to maintain complex permits;]] [[Calls on the Government to re-introduce fees for environmental permits and to include, in the determination of the amount of the fee, not only the costs of examining and issuing the permit, but also its enforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to involve this in the implementation of the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the objective of this cabinet that electric cars will only be sold in 2030 will greatly electricize our fleet in the coming decades;]] [[Whereas this has a significant impact on the revenues from car taxes and fuel taxes;]] [[Whereas there is broad consensus within the mobility sector that the current tax system is not future-proof;]] [[Whereas a form of payment according to use provides a solution for the elimination of excise duty on petrol and diesel;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and discuss with the Chamber the ideas and desires of sector organisations, civil society organisations and science;]] [[calls on the Government to identify scenarios for setting up the fiscalisation of mobility towards 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-27]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-28]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Stoffer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Laçin.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u272	The final motion, chairman, concerns the flight tax. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to introduce a flight tax and that several ideas and models are envisaged for this purpose;]] [[Whereas the way in which the flight tax is designed has more or less an impact on the environmental impact of the measure;]] [[calls on the Government to establish policy objectives for this measure with the Chamber and to ensure that this is the starting point for the implementation of the flight tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kröger, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Brenk and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u274	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr von Martels. He and his colleague have six minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors very much for the clear answer, both in writing and orally, to the many questions that have been put. I have two comments to make. The first one's about truck parking. There will be clear agreements on the development of a coherent network of secure truck parkings. I'm very happy about that. But my question is: can this list be supplemented by concrete planning? I had prepared a motion on the Alcohol Educational Measure (EMA), but the written answer was so clear that a motion would no longer have to be tabled. But I do have one more question. Will the research take place in January 2019 or end 2019? It is therefore a question of planning in this respect. Then I'd like to table three more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that heavy goods vehicles may contribute to the creation of traffic jams;]] [[noting that the A67 is particularly sensitive to traffic congestion;]] [[noting that separate lanes and truck can reduce platooning traffic;]] [[Calls on the Government to explicitly involve the positive effects of separate lanes and truck platooning in preventing traffic jams;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a pilot on the A67,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u276	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of road accidents is rising while there is no proper record of the nature, extent and cause of the accidents;]] [[noting that the lack of data makes it difficult to make effective policies;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with all the parties concerned, to draw up a plan enabling all road accidents to be recorded in a timely manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u277	Mr President, I had that motion on the EEA, but I withdraw it. So that leaves us with two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u278	The motion you are referring to has not been filed, so you do not have to withdraw it. I understand what you're trying to say. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u279	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start by filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the starting times of colleges and universities have a major impact on the crowds in trains, buses and cycle paths;]] [[Whereas research in Nijmegen-Arnhem makes it clear that shifting the first 15-minute lecture hours can lead to a reduction in peak traffic on the train by as much as 19%;]] [[calls on the government to reflect the positive effects on the reduction of peak pressure on the train by reducing the shift in lecture time and to apply it to several colleges and universities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the airspace review has been considerably delayed in the previous cabinet;]] [[Whereas it is important that the appropriate expertise within the Ministry and relevant organisations is sufficient to make the overall airspace review a success by 2023;]] [[points out that the opening-up of Lelystad Airport can only take place under the explicit condition that the airspace is reorganised by 2023 and that the low flight routes disappear,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u280	Then I'll get to the third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that rail per kilometre per passenger is an expensive form of public transport while innovative high-quality public transport, the HOV, such as the Zuidtangent between Haarlem, Hoofddorp, Schiphol and Amsterdam-Zuidoost, is significantly cheaper;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the opportunities of innovative high-quality public transport, at least involving the Utrecht-Breda link and informing the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u281	Mr President, I come to the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the demand for new infrastructure is many times greater than the available budget, while we are faced with major mobility issues;]] [[noting that, for example, infrastructure projects could also be co-financed by pension funds with private capital;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate opportunities and opportunities for private financing of infrastructure projects, in consultation with the provinces and to inform the Chamber in mid-2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u282	Mr President, I do not just walk out of here without thanking the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers. Very, very, very much is happening in the areas of rail and aviation. Let's all have the confidence that we're taking the right steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u283	Thank you. Then there is a brief question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u284	A question that fits in with the last words about having trust. In their motion, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Dijkstra stated that Lelystad could open if there was a guarantee that airspace would be reorganised in 2023 and aircraft would fly higher. How does Mr Amhaouch expect to receive this guarantee from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u285	I think we are now going to repeat the debate we had in the first term. I told you, you can give a warranty on a vacuum cleaner, because you can redeem it. What we are doing here is putting everything into place, starting with the right people from LVNL, from Defence, from NLR, from the Ministry, in a good participation process. To work on that, we have five years. If we do it in a good way, we're convinced we're gonna fly high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u286	Thank you. I'm not going to repeat the first-term debate. I would like to thank Mr Amhaouch and give the floor to Mr Laçin for his second term. You have three minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I indicated in the debate that we, as SP, consider it important for us to be able to regulate our public transport services ourselves. I saw in the reply that this is not possible at the moment, on the basis of European rules. We will see what is possible and then we will come forward with a proposal to the cabinet. Then there are four motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the GGD in 44 municipalities in the Schiphol area shows that at least 198.000 adults are seriously affected by air traffic;]] [[noting that this number is much higher than the numbers communicating Schiphol and PBL;]] [[noting that the nuisance of people living outside the current sound contours is not taken into account and is therefore not being addressed;]] [[Whereas insomnia caused by serious air traffic nuisance can have a major impact on people and our society;]] [[calls on the government to grant residents of municipalities outside the current noise contours the same rights and opportunities as residents of municipalities within the current sound contours and to ensure that these municipalities are represented in discussions and decisions on the future of Schiphol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Ryanair ignores court rulings and has unlawfully closed the base at Eindhoven Airport;]] [[noting that Ryanair refuses to apply Dutch laws and rules to employees who live in the Netherlands and work from the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that in Germany, it is currently being considered how airlines that violate structural labour legislation, such as Ryanair, can be tackled, for example, by withdrawing or not granting landing rights;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how airlines can be forced to apply Dutch labour law and otherwise be prevented by withdrawing or not granting landing rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in the run-up to the ban on asbestos roofs, tens of millions more must be recovered;]] [[Considering that the subsidy scheme to support the reorganisation ends in 2019 and that the pot is already virtually empty;]] [[Considers that, in particular, individuals with a high cost asbestos roof are running at high cost and this complicates and slows down the clean-up exercise;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the grant scheme beyond 2019 and to ensure that the Spring Note also releases the necessary funds for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-38]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Kröger and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-39]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u288	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that eco-criminals and malicious companies have too much freedom and harm our environment and our health;]] [[noting that the list of environmental crime is becoming longer and longer;]] [[considers that, despite all the efforts made, the ILT is not in a position to act decisively in practice where necessary;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine with the ILT how effective action can be taken against environmental crime and to inform the Court in the first quarter of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Teunissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u289	Two final remarks, Mr President. The first is for the Secretary of State. Today we received the message that REACH is not sufficiently protecting and informing us. 70% of the files are missing information. Can she give an initial response to this? The second one is for the Minister. I would like to make a few comments on the Van Aalst/Laçin motion on inland waterway transport and the CCNR rules. We know that Germany does not maintain it. When will this happen in the Netherlands? Because we need our little inland waterway transport very badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u290	Thank you. Almost within time. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs. You have four minutes together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u291	Mr President, I shall begin immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that construction in the Netherlands accounts for an estimated 50% of primary raw material consumption, 40% of total energy consumption and 30% of total water consumption;]] [[noting that there is a major construction project in the Netherlands with the new construction of 700,000 homes up to 2025 and the sustainability of 8 million buildings;]] [[Whereas circular construction can make a major contribution to climate change and to reducing resource scarcity;]] [[Whereas the construction world and the various players are still very much looking for ways to reuse materials;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the circular applications of the most commonly used building materials in construction and infra and then put these applications into practice through chords or green deals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to enable consumers to choose consciously through a public campaign and concrete product information;]] [[noting that, in relation to the transition to a circular economy, the PBL monitor identifies, inter alia, what the consumer's "footprint" is and much underlying research is being done into the impact of products;]] [[Whereas a comprehensive approach is necessary to raise consumer awareness of its impact and to enable consumers to make conscious choices in the area of sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to consult producers to make the "footprint" of their products more transparent;]] [[calls on the Government to have information and information bodies organise campaigns in order to make the information of the PBL monitor available to the public in relation to the circular economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands alone primary raw material consumption accounts for almost 50% of Dutch greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[Whereas knowledge and skills on circularity are scattered and fragmented in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that circular entrepreneurship reduces the use and consumption of primary raw materials and can thus make a major contribution to climate change and to reducing resource scarcity;]] [[Calls on the Government to establish a nationwide knowledge platform that brings together all knowledge and skills on circularity and makes them accessible to all those who wish to participate in the transition to a circular economy, building, where possible, on the initiatives and organisations already in place and using the practical experience of leaders;]] [[calls on the Government to seek, wherever possible, consistency with the Acceleration House to be established in order to avoid further fragmentation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-42]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-43]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u292	Mr. Chairman. That can and must be done faster, because I have five more motions for the next two minutes. With many thanks to team D66, in the back, in the stands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the financial resources for our national infrastructure are not sufficient for the bottlenecks in accessibility in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the government can increase its own investments by working with private investors;]] [[calls on the Minister to identify promising projects for public-private cooperation so that private investment flows to infrastructure projects that keep the Netherlands accessible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Convention on International Civil Aviation, the so-called 1944 Chicago Convention, provides that fuel contained in aircraft is exempt from taxes on arrival and departure in another Contracting State;]] [[Whereas this does not encourage airlines and aircraft manufacturers to switch to more climate-friendly alternatives to kerosene;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to organise an extraordinary session in the Netherlands of the International Civil Aviation Organisation on excise duty on kerosene and to obtain support for this under no less than one fifth of the total number of States members of the Chicago Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that zero-emission driving becomes cheaper in use and has positive effects on climate and air quality;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with all interested parties, preferably in the form of a green deal, on a timetable for zero-emission taxi transport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Heathrow Airport has announced that it will exempt the first electric aircraft from landing and take-off charges;]] [[Whereas steps are being taken worldwide towards the development of fully electric passenger aircraft;]] [[Whereas slot restrictions are an incentive for airlines to deploy as many aircraft as possible on routes;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with Schiphol, to draw up a plan for the aviation bill to exempt the first electric aircraft until 2040..................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that alternative fuels such as electric driving are becoming financially more attractive;]] [[Whereas European legislation requires that information from a fuel price comparer be made available at the service station;]] [[calls on the government, as the Netherlands, to lead the sector at European level by starting Dutch pilots with the provision of a fuel price comparison visible at the service stations and by means of an app,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-45]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-46]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Schonis, Mr Stoffer, Mr von Martels, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Laçin and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-47]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-48]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Schonis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u293	And that's four seconds left. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u294	Thank you. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk. Mr Van Dijk has two minutes, at least according to our schedule. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You also learn on such an evening, even though it is late, that the course quickly reads motions at D66 is well organized. I don't need that, because I only have one motion. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions in writing, with a number of commitments to take things along, just like here in the debate. Thank you very much for that. I also welcome the commitment on the managing authority or the Wadden Commissioner, in my words. When can we expect the work of the Minister? I have one motion, about Uber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas everyone wants to get on the road safely and drivers must therefore have sufficient rest;]] [[noting that Uber does not feel responsible for Dutch laws and regulations, such as driving and rest periods;]] [[whereas Uber can track through its algorithms how long an Uber driver is working and that in other countries there is already a system for this;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with Uber how to prevent fraud and breach of the rules, and to agree, where possible, on adjustments to the app that can help in this process, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a green deal with the Empire, ProRail and NS with the aim of collecting 75% of the waste separately at the stations and reducing 25% of passengers' waste by 2020;]] [[Whereas at present a large proportion of the waste is not collected separately and that separately separated paper and waste often even end up in a single container which makes it impossible to recycle;]] [[Whereas there is still insufficient progress to achieve the objectives of the green deal;]] [[points out that the objectives of the green deal should be met by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government of ProRail and NS to address the commitments made in the green deal, with the aim of increasing the number of stations where waste separation takes place in the coming years to at least all IC stations, and to ensure that multiple types of waste are separated at these stations, including in any case plastics,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the garment industry has an enormous environmental pressure and water use in its production and transport;]] [[Whereas textile collectors such as Salvation ReShare Army have great difficulty in recycling clothing through low quality clothing quality, limited reuse by the clothing sector and misleading labels on the composition of clothing;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State has priority in a 100% circular textile industry and talks with the clothing industry;]] [[calls on the Government to use the following in its talks with the clothing industry:]] [[scaling up of textile collection and recycling;]] [[agreements on a minimum percentage of recycled textiles in new products;]] [[agreements to eliminate low-grade non-recyclable clothing;]] [[agreements on clothing labels with a proper representation of the composition of raw materials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities still have little influence on sustainability in purchasing their own means of transport and that only 8% meet the national sustainability criteria for air quality and CO emissions in procurement for service cars, contract transport and garbage vehicles;]] [[whereas the motion-Dik-Faber c.s. (34775-XII, No. 44) calls for a good example to be given in the sustainable public procurement of vehicles and, together with the UNG, to improve the sustainable procurement of vehicles;]] [[Whereas governance agreements for zero-emission groups and bus transport are successful examples;]] [[calls on the government to make maximum use of an ambitious EU directive on clean vehicles;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the EU Directive ambitiously by agreeing with local authorities on sustainable procurement of their own fleet, such as service cars, vans and heavy vehicles, in line with existing administrative agreements for sustainable (zero-emission) transport;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Teunissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-51]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their comprehensive reply. I look forward to the many fine debates that are to come. In order to encourage a more sustainable policy, I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to encourage the use of biofuels and therefore intends to increase the percentage of mandatory blending of biofuels;]] [[noting that the Plan Bureau for the Environment (PBL) has calculated that there is a shortage of sustainable biomass to meet this obligation;]] [[considering the risk of increasing the proportion of non-sustainable biofuel in the tank;]] [[calls on the Government not to increase the percentage of mandatory blending of biofuels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that separately collected passenger waste is still handled separately at NS stations;]] [[noting that this is partly due to the fact that passenger waste is labelled as industrial waste, whereas after-distinguishment facilities for high-quality recycling are only accessible to household waste;]] [[Whereas passenger waste is very similar in composition to household waste;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how companies such as NS and ProRail with separately collected waste can use separation plants for high-quality recycling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a more plant-based diet can contribute to the achievement of climate objectives;]] [[noting that the choice of food is largely determined by the supply and the social standard;]] [[noting that the concept "Carnivore? Pass it on!" by Professor Henriëtte Prast, by taking vegetable meals as a starting point in the menu, while maintaining full freedom of choice;]] [[asks the government to allow the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State to function as initiator by the concept "Carnivore? Pass it on!" to be introduced at all meetings organised by the Ministry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-54]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-55]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u298	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u299	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan for the remaining time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u300	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions and then some final comments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to send MER Lelystad Airport to the European Commission for an opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of LenW indicated that oil should not be included in a sustainable fuel;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to ensure that oil extracted within CORSIA fossil cannot exist as "green alternative fuel,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Krol and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-57]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u301	Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few final remarks. First of all, of course, thank you for answering the questions. I have another request. We would like to receive a letter from the Minister of IenW on the relationship between CORSIA and EU ETS, particularly in terms of competences. The Minister has already indicated a little: if you ask so harshly, I may have... But a letter would then be appropriate, please for the AO Aviation of 5 December and if possible before 1 December. 1 December is quite an important date in this respect. Then there are a few other comments. Too bad the Minister isn't making the wise decision right now not to let Lelystad open. It's nice that she doesn't see oil as green fuel either. We got another question from the field. One of the population groups would like to know which population groups have asked for money. The inhabitants' associations are not aware of this. Maybe some information could come up on that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u302	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn. You have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had five motions, but there are only two left because of various commitments made by the rulers. Road safety is a top priority. That is absolutely right. We have expressed our concerns about pedestrians, especially people with disabilities. For them crossing safely is of great importance. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is quite common for zebra paths to be extended over the lane, but not over the cycle path;]] [[Whereas this may lead to dangerous situations between cyclists and pedestrians;]] [[calls on the Government to draw the attention of local, regional and national road managers to this problem and to ask them to address it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u304	Next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the first CO-negative road has been set up in South Holland;]] [[Whereas all public authorities should set a good example as regards the CO impact of their actions;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, the CO performance ladder is already used;]] [[calls on the government to include CO neutrality as an important factor in infrastructure procurement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u306	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer. You have one minute left on the list. Mr Azarkan has resigned for the second term. I call Mr Stoffer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u307	Thank you, Mr President. I only have one minute, but I also have one motion. I think we can do that. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for his reply. I'm not saying I was happy with every answer, but the answers were good. I started my contribution yesterday with the idea that we can be proud of our infrastructure, but that we can do it a little better every day and that we should, above all, do it together with others. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the target of up to 500 road deaths and 10,600 seriously injured is far out of reach;]] [[Whereas work is under way on the 2030 Road Safety Strategy Plan;]] [[Whereas, according to the government agreement, the Cabinet intends to commit itself to the realisation of the manifesto "Transport safety: a national priority";]] [[Whereas no structural funds are available for security measures such as the More Safe Programme;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties in the framework of the 2030 Road Safety Strategy Plan, to focus on targeted, integrated action agendas of the Empire, provinces and municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u308	We have arrived at the second term of office. I would ask the rulers to give an opinion quickly on the motions and then on the amendments, if possible. I would like to agree with the Members that, when it comes to their own motion, they can ask a single question about it. Then I can give the floor to the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin with the motions and amendments, I would like to start by answering the questions that have been asked. It's easy to do that first. Mr Von Martels has asked what exactly is the planning that is part of the overview of those truck parking spots. I will inform the Court of Justice of this in the context of the MIRT memorandum meeting. So you can look forward to that. Furthermore, Mr Von Martels asked: when will the WODC study come to the EEA? That report will come at the end of 2019. I shall, of course, forward it to you. Then Mr Van Dijk asked about the appreciation of the Wadden Authority. It will come to you at the beginning of 2019. Then we have questions from Mr Van Raan. He asked for a letter on the relationship between EU ETS and CORSIA. You would prefer to receive them before the AO Aviation of 5 December. That's what we're gonna do. He had also asked whether this could be done before 1 December. A letter for an AO should be there a week in advance, so that's before 1 December. In the same letter, I will come back to his question about population groups and money, if that's okay with him. Then I'm about to begin the motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u310	I hear another question outside the microphone. Perhaps the Minister could repeat that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u311	Yes, Mr Laçin asked about the implementation of Mr Van Aalst and Mr Laçin's motion on inland waterway transport, the CCNR. I would like to take the answer to this question to the AO Maritime which is taking place in December, because it is too technical to do so now. Then we can discuss it there. Well, I guess I've answered all the questions by now. I'm sorry this one slipped through. Then I come to the motion on part No. 26 by Mrs Kröger. I don't recommend that motion. European flights cannot simply be seen as domestic flights under the ICAO Convention. The motion in part No. 27 is also by Mrs Kröger's hand. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I've asked for four independent, renowned agencies. The Commission for the m.e.r. was also informed, so a new advice is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u312	For Mr Laçin: the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Laçin, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Laçin on behalf of the Group of
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u313	Then the motion to part No. 31. We've divided the motions between us for a moment. I also advise against this motion. This is the primary responsibility of Secretary of State Snel and the motion should therefore be submitted to him. In the motion in part No. 32 is asked by Mr Von Martels for separate lanes. I would like to say that if you take out those two words, I would be able to give the motion judgment Chamber. Otherwise, I must discourage the motion, because these separate lanes do not necessarily contribute to the optimum use of the road network. That is also widely shared in the regions, so I cannot do that. But if you took out those two words, I could give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u314	I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u315	I think that's a good idea; that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u316	Mr von Martels fits the motion in part No. 32 according to the Minister's suggestion. That is the judgment of the Chamber. Mrs Kröger, you had a question about the previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u317	Yeah, about the motion in part No. 31. Can the Minister consult with Secretary of State Snel and can I get a written response with the verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u318	It's possible. But I can tell you that once the bill has been tabled, you will still have plenty of room for debate on this issue. But if you would have liked to pass this on to Secretary of State Snel, I can of course do that. Then I come to the motion on part No. 33. I have the same kind of request as Mr von Martels. Here a closing traffic accident registration is requested. If he can remove the word "closing" 100% conclusively you can never guarantee I can give the motion judgment Chamber. If the word stands, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u319	I am glad that I have tabled no more than two motions, otherwise I will have to step forward every time to change something. I want to meet this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u320	The motion in part No. 33 is amended: the word "closing" is deleted. The verdict on this motion is: Judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u321	Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 35. That motion, too, I can give judgment to Chamber. And also the motion in part No. 37 I can give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u322	I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 35. I wonder whether, in the eyes of the Minister, the policy has changed as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u323	I do not see it directly as a change, but because there are still many questions and uncertainties about it, I do not think it is a problem to confirm it once again. That's why I'm giving the motion judgment, Chamber, to remove any ambiguity. Then I come to the motion on part No. 38. I'd like to advise against that motion. All residents have the same possibilities when it comes to lodging complaints and the like. I do not want to anticipate the evaluation of the ORS in the formal representations. An alternative could therefore be to hold the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u324	We had a debate on this a few months ago, in which it was stated that complaints from people living in municipalities outside the noise contours can be submitted, but that they are not being dealt with. That's what this motion is about. The investigation of the GGD indicates that there are many more people with severe nuisances, that they should also be taken seriously and that their complaints should also be dealt with. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u325	The request is really quite broad: to give the same rights and possibilities. That has to do with legal contours. You can't just do that, so I just want to wait and see the advice of the ORS. Then we can weigh this in the wider story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u326	When will the judgment of the ORS come?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u327	We do not have the request for advice with the request to do it this year. Of course, I cannot guarantee that they will, but we have asked them to give us this advice for the Christmas celebrations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u328	Then I'll hold the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u329	At the request of Mr Laçin, I propose his motion (35000-XII, No. 38). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u330	The motion in part No. 39 I would advise against, because it is mainly a responsibility of the Minister and Secretary of State for SZW, but the most important point is that EU airlines' landing rights cannot be withdrawn. This is not possible under EU law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u331	One quick question, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u332	Yeah, a quick question. It may not be possible, but in Germany this research is also ongoing at the moment. The question is whether the Minister can investigate how those airlines that violate our rules and laws can prevent them, whether they have landing rights or not. How can we ward them off? That's actually the question. I can change the motion, if that helps the minister, but I want to know how we can stop those companies. Whether that's with landing rights, yes or no, or else...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u333	Your point is clear. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u334	I continue to "dissuade" my judgment, but I would like to assure you that we will report on this point in the letter that comes before the AO Aviation. The motion in part No. 45 I can give judgment room. The motion in part No. 46 I'll advise against. Firstly, the Secretary of State for Finance is responsible for this. In addition, as indicated above, it is particularly important to discuss the options for a flight tax at EU level. Mr Snel will take this with him at his conference. The motion in part No. 48 I can give judgment room. Then I'm gonna move on to the motion on piece number one. 56. I think I have been very clear about this in the debate with Mrs Teunissen. I'll advise against it. From the motion in part No. 57 will also be clear that I will discourage it. That is already clear from the debate. The motion in part No. 58 I can give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 59 I can also give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 60 can also get judgment room. The motion in part No. 61, too. The other motions will be dealt with by the Secretary of State. Then I am ready for the amendments, Mr President. The amendment in part No. 13. I'd like to dissuade you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u335	The amendments may be mixed up with a number of Members, so it is good to mention the authors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u336	The amendment in part No. 13 belongs to Laçin and concerns ILT. The ILT is working hard on the transformation to risk-oriented supervision. Policy review is ongoing. I do not want to anticipate those conclusions. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 15 members Paternotte and Bruins. I would also like to advise against this, because in the Aviation Paper, the governance surrounding the environmental consultation is widely discussed. I have already indicated to him that it is a very sympathetic amendment. I'd like to take it with me, but I'm finding it untimely right now. That's why I'm telling you. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 16 by Mr Leijten and Mr Laçin. The proposal for the Tax Plan lies with the Ministry of Finance, but I would advise against the substance of the amendment, because the under-exhaustment is already being structurally skimmed, so this does not have proper coverage. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 19 of Van Brenk's member. That is actually an amendment that I would like to discuss with her at the Water legislative consultation, because it is a bit strange to go into an amendment here if we have not yet discussed the substance of the matter at all. I think it would be wise to discuss it there. If you want a judgment, you can, but it might be a little crazy if the rest of the Chamber hasn't talked to you about the subject at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u337	For the record, the WHO is scheduled for 26 November and we are not voting on the amendments until after 26 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u338	That makes more sense. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 20 members Stoffer and von Martels. I would advise against this, because we already have 25 million additional for the safety of the N-roads and I am now agreeing with the province on a special impulse and coverage comes from Eurovignette revenues. They were brought in by the transport sector and that is not in line with the provincial roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u339	Can I get a closer look at the number? I have here on my list of Mr Van Aalst's amendment to item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u340	This is 35000 A, an amendment tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u341	It was an amendment by Mr Stoffer. Originally it was Stoffer/Von Martels, but the last one should have been off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u342	Oh, that's not on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u343	But for the rest, it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u344	Then I have the amended amendment to item No. 25 with number 35000 of the Ministry's budget chapter XII. That belongs to members Paternotte and Fat-Faber. That replaces the amendment in part No. 23, I'll just say it for the sake of completeness. I would advise against this amendment. This was also widely exchanged during the debate. The Secretary of State and I are working together on the loading infrastructure action plan. The signs fit in there, too. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 22, Mr Kröger. This is also covered by Chapter XII of this budget. It replaces the amendment in part No. 21. This is in fact the same as Mr Laçin's amendment to item No. 13. The ILT is working on risk-based supervision. Policy review is ongoing. I therefore advise against the amendment. Then I come to another amendment to item No. 22. That's got 35000 A.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u345	That is an amendment to the Infrastructure Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u346	Yeah, and that includes 35000-XII, because they're in combination. It will be no surprise that I am not recommending these amendments, because we have already exchanged them in the debate. We're not gonna use the BBSO. Those were my motions and my amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u347	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the questions put and to deal with the other motions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ziengs had a specific question on the KNMI hourly rate. It is so specific that I regret to suggest that I reply in writing. I see that Mr Ziengs agrees. He also had a question in the context of asbestos roofs. He has drawn attention to sustainability and contact with insurers. I can confirm that there is certainly attention to this and that there are also contacts with insurers about the possible role they can play. Mrs Kröger had asked a question about Bibob. The local authorities are aware of the possibilities of using the Bibob Act. For the major risk companies, the Wabo includes the possibility of carrying out the Bibob study, but the standard application of Bibop does not fit into a risk-oriented proportional application of that law. Then Mr Ziengs had another question about the situation surrounding the tri-country train. I am in agreement with my Belgian colleague to see how we can move that situation forward. The requirements in Belgium are different from those in the Netherlands, but we are discussing them. It has already been discussed at least six times, both administratively and politically. That's what we keep doing. My aim is to find a good solution as soon as possible to allow that tri-country train to run. Mr Amhaouch had another question about the BDU funds. This concerns only two transport regions, namely the Amsterdam Transport Region and the Rotterdam The Hague Metropolitan Region. The other regions receive funds for public transport and regional accessibility through the Province Fund. When Mr Amhaouch asked for this, I said: this is not the only thing. No, so the rest gets it through the Province Fund. I thought it would be a good idea to clarify that. And the annual accounts of all of them are public. This also reflects what that money has been spent on. Mr Laçin asked for an initial response to the REACH story. I would like to say the following to him. At first, we didn't know much. Now 21,000 substances have been registered. We know part of that. That remains insufficient if the files are not complete. So I want extra action. This must be done at European level, otherwise all Member States will carry out separate investigations. So ECHA, the European Institute, and the Commission must deliver here. I will certainly raise it in the Environment Council next December. I also have a number of environmental ministers with whom I discuss the ambitions in the REACH-UP group. Together with them, I will address this in December in the Environment Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u349	A brief question from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u350	I asked for a debate on this during the scheme today. There won't be. But they did ask for a letter. I hope that letter will be sent to the Chamber at least for the AO External Security. Then we have the WHO Water and the AO in preparation for the Environment Council. We need that letter in time so that we can get him involved in one of those debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u351	Perhaps it is a good thing that I also agree with my colleagues in the EU, the other members of the REACH-UP Group, on a strategy on how we intend to deal with this in the Environment Council. Then I will make sure that before the AA in preparation for the Environment Council there is a letter to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the motions. The motion in part No. 24 on the railroad police, I advise. That's the responsibility of the ministry of JenV. I have recently heard from the people on their own work visit in Rotterdam that they think it is working well now. The motion in part No. Mrs Kröger's 28 concerns polyplegers and fines. I would ask her to hold this motion because it calls for consultation with the JenV Minister. I see her nodding, so I assume she's willing to. That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u352	It's not that far. I see Mrs Kröger coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u353	I can imagine that this motion will require consultation. I would like to know at what time I can see the outcome of that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u354	That depends on the consultation. That depends on how fast the raft is with the minister of JenV. We will contact them soon. We will report on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u355	Can I conclude, then, that the motion is being held or is she still considering it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u356	No, I'm not. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u357	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion (35000-XII, No. 28). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u358	Then there is Mrs Kröger's motion on No. 29 on fees and the environmental permit. I would suggest to Mrs Kröger that this request be passed on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because BZK is about the Environment Act. That is what this motion is about. So if she wants, I can direct this motion for a response to the Secretary of State. Then the motion must be held in the meantime. I see Mrs Kröger nodding. Then that's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u359	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion (35000-XII, No. 29). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u360	In the motion in part No. 30 is requested for a tax review. That is really a point for the meeting with the Secretary of State for Finance at the Tax Plan. I advise against this motion. I shall make the request to the proposers for the motion in part No. 34 to hold, because this trial in Nijmegen is indeed interesting. It also affects the policy area of higher education. I therefore have to consult with the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science and will then send a response to that test to the Chamber. I should therefore like to request that this motion be retained for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u361	In the meantime, I see Mrs Kröger at the interrupting microphone. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u362	The assessment of the motion in part No. 30 went very fast. It should be discussed with the Secretary of State for Finance. The motion calls on the government to discuss with sector organisations, with the Mobility Alliance, the desires and wishes for 2030. This also concerns the electrification of our transport. That is the first request in the motion, and that seems to me to be heard in the policy area of these leaders. I can amend the motion on the second request that would belong to the Finance Committee. Then these directors can carry out the first request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u363	Then the motion is superfluous and I must advise against it, because we have indicated in the letter on the climate agreement what talks we are going to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u364	The motion in part No. 30 is not recommended. We were at the motion in part no. 34. The Secretary of State has requested that they be retained. I note that Members are in agreement with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u365	The judgment on the Amhaouch c.s. motion in piece No. 36 I leave to the Chamber. I would advise against the Laçin motion in part No. 40, because at the end of the day, I no longer opt for a grant, but for funding. The motion asks me to continue with the grant. I'm not prepared to do that, so I'm not going to recommend the motion. The motion Laçin c.s. in piece No. 41 is superfluous, because I already come up with a multi-stakeholder approach to environmental violations and the ILT is already doing a lot against environmental crime and also reports on the effects in its annual report. So I advise against this motion. The judgment on the Van Eijs motion on item No. Forty-two, I'll leave it to the Chamber. Then there is the Van Eijs motion on part No. 43. I shall deal with that in the implementation agenda, so I would ask Mrs Van Eijs to hold on to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u366	Mrs Van Eijs nods in agreement with the request to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u367	I would also like to make the same request for the Eijs motion on item No. 44, with the same argument. I shall return to that in the implementation agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u368	I'm looking at Mrs. Van Eijs. She agrees to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u369	The Paternotte c.s. motion. in piece No. 47: Judgment Room. The Paternotte/Schonis motion in part No. 49: Judgment Room. The Gijs van Dijk/Laçin motion in part No. 50: Judgement Room. The motion-Dik-Faber/Teunissen in part No. 51: Judgment Room. On the motion by Mr Dik-Faber/Van Eijs to item No. 52 I would like to say to Mrs Dik-Faber: I can discuss the points she raises in the motion, but of course it is the responsibility of the sector, so I cannot guarantee it. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. I see Mrs Dik-Faber nodding. Then the motion-Dik-Faber/Stoffer in part No. 53. This is discussed in the climate agreement, so the request is to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u370	Mrs Dik-Faber nods in agreement with the Secretary of State's request to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u371	The Teunissen motion in part No. 54 I must advise against. Incorporation is included in European legislation. Within the framework of the Climate Agreement, the possibilities related to CO gains are further explored. Of course, that should not be at the expense of agricultural land. So it really has to be about sustainable biofuels. It must be good for the environment. That's how I look at those biofuels. But as this motion has now been tabled, I must advise against it. Then there is the motion for a resolution on part No. 31. I've already agreed to investigate that. I should therefore like to say that the motion is superfluous, but otherwise I would ask for the motion to be retained. Mrs Teunissen will then be able to assess whether that is sufficient after I have kept my promise. If she is not prepared to hold the motion, I must advise against it, because then it is unnecessary. Then an amendment has been tabled, namely No. 14, by Mr Laçin. That is the financial cover that is actually part of the motion he tabled on asbestos. He's proposing to continue a grant. I have just said in response to the motion that that is not my choice. My choice is to move to a financial instrument after the subsidy, which was intended to accelerate it. I am in the process of working that out, and that is why I do not recommend that amendment. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u372	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-14.u373	We shall be voting on the motions next Tuesday. The amendments are put to the vote at the beginning of December after we have had all the budgetary discussions. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and the official support, here and elsewhere. Thank you, of course, to the Members of Parliament and their support. Thanks to our support here in this house. Of course, I would also like to thank the people who have followed this debate here or in a different way. Thank you very much for your interest.
