ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate is on the way and can take a seat at any time in trade union K. I welcome everyone, including the people in the gallery, and I give Mr Klaver the floor on behalf of GroenLinks as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Right with the Bible, this coalition has sometimes been called loving. But the biggest problem of this coalition is not that there are parties in it that are inspired by the Bible. The main problem of the coalition is that there is a Prime Minister with a saint, I would almost say a blind faith in the market, in wish lists of large companies and in the lobby of Hans de Boer of VNO-NCW. In times of change and uncertainty, at a time when China seems to take over the world, Donald Trump makes the world more insecure and climate change perhaps put us for the greatest transition ever, we need politicians, and certainly a prime minister, who don't cover up facts and take no chances with the truth. Mr. Chairman. This debate is not just about memos and whether or not they should have been shared. This debate is not just about a tax measure. This debate is about the confidence that is embarrassed. I would like to call on the Cabinet to use this debate to restore that confidence. That requires answers, lots of answers, honest answers. Let's start with the question of why the Prime Minister said in this Chamber yesterday: all those memos, 60 pages in total, I didn't know about that until Friday. Is the Prime Minister sticking to that claim? He also said that he has no memory of the memos, while we read in yesterday's pieces that he started talking with one of the memos under his arm with other coalition partners, who also had no memory of it. Who asked for memo numero 1? What was the purpose of this memo? With which parties and with which negotiators was this memo shared? We see in memo 4 at "Process" that this dividend memo would be discussed at the tax table and at the main table. Did this actually happen? Which parties and which negotiators have discussed the memo? In memo number 6 we read that the Ministry of General Affairs also requested information about the dividend tax. Did this inform the Prime Minister of his officials? The block "Process" says that Shell and Unilever should also be contacted about the dividend tax. Is this what happened? And, if so, by whom was that done? The Prime Minister writes that he used memo number 11, Wiebes' memo "I welcome him" during the negotiations in informal bilateral talks with the negotiators. With which negotiators of which parties was this? Does the Prime Minister consider that his fellow negotiators, with all the information we have now, have been sufficiently informed to be able to make a careful assessment? Were the Prime Minister and the chief negotiators aware of the negative opinions of the Ministry of Finance? This is the negative opinion that abolishing the dividend tax increases the chance that the Netherlands will be used as a transit country, that the abolition will not have a role for the establishment environment and that more than half of the EUR 1.4 billion would end up in the hands of foreign governments. If the Prime Minister was aware of these arguments, why did he not share them with the Chamber, despite our extensive questions about this? Finally, in terms of questions. If the Prime Minister was not aware, would he agree with me that the decision is based on incomplete information and that it should therefore be reconsidered? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. Today's debate is about so much more than memos about a tax measure. The debate today is about the confidence that people can have in politics in general and in the Prime Minister in particular. They need to be able to trust that he's always telling the truth. The credibility and reliability of politics are at stake, and I blame the Prime Minister for that. But the Prime Minister is not only responsible for that. Coalition parties in the newspapers all too eagerly point out that this is a VVD plan that they have agreed to because they have received other views for it. Really? Are you kidding me? Give away EUR 1.4 billion because another party wants to? Doesn't argument matter at all? This is politics at its very, very, very best. This is the kind of old politics we need to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u3	I agree with many of Mr Klaver's questions. Thank you for that. Then I don't have to repeat them. But I'm gonna take a look at what you're saying. You, together with Mr Asscher and myself, are one of those who asked about a thousand questions to the Prime Minister in the November debate. The main question was whether he had given all the memos. Turns out the PM didn't tell us about a memo the gentleman sitting next to him, Mr. Wiebes, made with the officials. So it's not a party piece at all. The Prime Minister didn't tell us about this. Do you agree with me that the Prime Minister screwed up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u4	Not informing the Chamber is a mortal sin, as well as not telling the truth. I do not draw conclusions before debates. I'm gonna pull it out at the end of the debates. I've asked a whole series of questions. You must always be somewhat surprised if there is a very good answer to these questions, but it is a difficult matter for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u5	I get that. I also respect the fact that you do so. On the other hand, we already know that the Prime Minister did not tell us when we asked him in November. That's what he wrote in his letter yesterday. Okay, you may still believe in a little miracle, but the facts clearly show that the Prime Minister didn't mention that memo? He didn't tell us about it. He started negotiating with it, and that while you stood here, while I stood here and Mr. Asscher stood here. Well, then the prime minister just screwed around, didn't he? You can draw political conclusions later, but then he cheated on you, didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u6	The tricky thing is, if anyone has no memory of anything, it's his word against ours. But let me choose my own words: I find it hard to believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. With EUR 1.4 billion, you can pay teachers better, reduce your own risk of care and ensure that disabled people get a decent income. But this cabinet prefers to give it to foreign investors, frightened and lobbied by Shell and Unilever. The Prime Minister knew and chose to lift a smokescreen for six months. Now he's threatening to drag others into it. Mr President, first of all, the facts. Fact 1. The government agreement included the abolition of the dividend tax, but it was not included in the electoral programmes. Fact 2. During the debate on the abolition of the dividend tax on 15 November 2017, the Prime Minister, sitting sitting down, said: "At least, my best know, there was no memo that was asked out through the informant or informal, but of course all kinds of texts in the process of formation." Fact 3. We now have the following notes: ask dividend tax from April 2017, requested and addressed to the State Secretary; a dividend tax note from August 2017, addressed to the State Secretary, discussed with the tax table and the main table and with Unilever and Shell; and a dividend tax note from July, which also states what information is shared with General Affairs at the request of General Affairs, the Prime Minister's Ministry. Fact 4. Last Friday, 20 April, the Prime Minister said at the press conference that he gave the wrong impression of the existence of memos. He merely claimed to be unable to remember the memos, not denying their existence. Yesterday in Question Time in this Chamber he confirmed that with the following words: 'I said in the debate that I have no memory of a memo on the table... outside the file sent to the Chamber in the context of the formation. That's still the situation. I didn't have that memory and I can't have that memory afterwards, because I didn't have it. The article in Trouw last Friday also showed that there were pieces. And," said the Prime Minister, "I didn't know that until last Friday." Fact 5. On 24 April, the Prime Minister sent a letter to the Chamber stating: "Finally, I am providing your Chamber with a document drawn up within my own party by then Secretary of State Wiebes." He added that in doing so, official notes of Finance and Economic Affairs were used and continued: "I used this document during the negotiations in informal bilateral talks with the negotiators." Mr. Chairman. What does this prove? First of all, this Prime Minister knew damn well about the pieces. After all, he requested them himself. He took the piece of Wiebes actively to the farmer. I'm not necessarily saying he should have made the play public. I'm saying he can't say he didn't know about it until Friday. Secondly, it shows that the documents have been withheld because all the official documents show an image that abolishing that dividend tax is a bad idea. There was no unintentional suggestion that there were no memos; the intention was to awaken that suggestion. Thirdly, the Prime Minister is dragging others into this. The argument of forgetfulness affects others. It led, among other things, to the painful and embarrassing scene with Secretary of State now Minister Wiebes last Friday. He can laugh about it, but I was sad to see it. Mr. Chairman. Why is this so bad, anyway? Why are people mad about this? Because from all over the world the image of an extremely close cooperation between this Prime Minister and two large multinationals emerges, the image of a conspiracy against the Dutch, which Rutte can then implement. Today it is up to the Prime Minister to come up with a statement that restores the confidence of Dutch people in the reliability of information and in the integrity of decision-making. So the questions to the Prime Minister are the following. One: do you insist that until Friday you knew nothing about the documents now made public, at least she had forgotten? Two: why didn't you ever ask in between if there were such pieces? How can you imagine that none of our colleagues or officials have ever said anything? And what does that say about competence, information position and memory? Three: where are the memos discussed? In this respect, I agree with Jesse Klaver's question. Four: has Wiebes' VVD memo been discussed at the so-called "main table"? Five: did the officials work on that memo? And six: how are we supposed to interpret the sentence in which a link is established between the problem of gas extraction, the safety in Groningen and the dividend tax? Mr. Chairman. What I would like to hear from this Prime Minister, but also from the coalition parties, is how we in the Chamber can be sure that we have the information and the answers to the questions we need to be able to do our work here, as a parliament. I urge this Prime Minister and the coalition parties to be open. No longer clever language tricks, no forgetfulness on this occasion, but everything on the table. And two: spend this money in the Netherlands, to the Dutch. With everything we know now, with everything we've seen, with everything we've been advised, that 1.4 billion has to be spent in Dutch society. Delete that measure. Don't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. It's like some kind of politics, Cluedo. Who was it? The Prime Minister. With what weapon? A memo that wasn't supposed to be called. What place? Shell and Unilever's boardroom. And then they're surprised that people are losing faith in politics. There appears to be a lot of criticism of the assumption that abolishing the tax on profit distribution for shareholders is beneficial to our society. In fact, the documents that have been requested for so long and which have been kept under the hat for so long show precisely that our own officials have also advised not to do so. It will lead to a higher tax burden for domestic taxpayers and the spread of foreign state funds. And it increases the chance that the Netherlands will be used as a transit country for international constructions. How clear can it be? That 1.4 billion, each year again, in the worst case scenario, if the cabinet is still there for three years, possibly more than 4 billion, belongs to our society. We can reduce rents, improve care or increase wages. The fact that Rutte wants to do so doesn't surprise us as SP. This cabinet increases the VAT on the groceries, increases the care premium and the energy bill and wants to pay people with disabilities below the minimum wage. The ordinary people, the 90% in our society, pay and the multinationals, the 10%, get the presents. Of course, this measure of abolishing the dividend tax fits perfectly into that. But then, Mr President, today's question: how did the Prime Minister allow it to come to this? Why did he persist so long in not knowing any of the documents on this subject during the negotiations, when there is now a whole suit and his own party colleague, Minister Wiebes, has written a piece on this subject himself that has been used by the Prime Minister? Doesn't that confirm the Prime Minister himself that he had knowledge of a piece? Then why did he say he had no memory of this? How is it that in the process description that we could read in the documents we received last night, it is even explicitly stated that the documents are being discussed on the main table and that the Prime Minister says he does not know anything about them? Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, I was also in this debate with the Prime Minister. Then it was about Minister Zijlstra. He had lied to get a job as Foreign Minister and he had to leave, but even more shocking to that debate I found that the Prime Minister did not call Zijlstra's lie "political mortal sin." According to the Prime Minister, lying to the Minister was a problem only when it appeared in the newspaper. Today we are standing here again and again we are talking about the credibility of our Prime Minister. And why, I ask the Prime Minister. Why have you been so cramped about the numerous documents that appear to be there for months? Would've just been honest. You should have said, "Yes, there are documents. From Unilever, from Shell and from the VVD. And that's why I want it, which is why I want to take back 1.4 billion from society every year. That's why I don't take the risk and want people with disabilities to work below the minimum wage." We already know where this Prime Minister stands, don't we? But no, he didn't say that. The Prime Minister made a mess of it. Why do you say you don't have any memories? My question to the Prime Minister is: when exactly did these memories occur? Did you know that your own ministry asked about the documents? Why does the Prime Minister say that there are no informal memos to his knowledge, even though he went through the coalition partners with his own piece in his hand? Another question for the Prime Minister is whether he has asked his coalition partners to remain silent about this. How should we read the passage on gas extraction? Is it really true that Shell had to get something back for deciding to stop the gas extraction? Our Prime Minister's attitude is always the same: he thinks the lie is only a problem when it comes out. The SP doesn't want a prime minister for whom the truth is just an option. My main question today to the Prime Minister is therefore why he has subordinated his political credibility to the interests of big business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u12	Madam President. This debate is mainly about the credibility and reliability of Prime Minister Rutte and his cabinet. I must honestly tell you that I am more than tired of this Prime Minister's whining, twisting and manipulating. This Prime Minister set us up, tricked the Chamber, fooled us with word games. There would be no memo on the dividend tax, not via the informant and not informally, the Prime Minister said. But there were memos, more than one. One was even requested by the Prime Minister's Ministry himself, General Affairs, but an important memo was also made by VVD Secretary of State Wiebes himself, which was used by Prime Minister Rutte during the formation negotiations in talks with the other negotiators. So if the Prime Minister says he replied to his honor and conscience that he had no memory that there were other memos on the table outside the formation memos, then he's playing a cheating, dirty word game about tables and files. Because he not only knew about Wiebes' important memo, but he also used it again during the formation negotiations. If you keep that secret while you're being cut by colleagues here in the Chamber about being and not being present with memos, you're screwing up. Then you show that you don't have much with honor and conscience. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rutte did not give the Chamber transparency and he did not give us a full answer either, but he turned around and he turned around like a slippery eel. The same applies to Secretary of State Wiebes, who has been promoted to minister. What he did is not to be described with a pen. A RTL journalist asked him only a few days ago: "Have you seen the documents on dividend taxation and its consequences and effects on society?" And Mr Wiebes replied: "That was not on the tax table. I wouldn't even know what document you're talking about." Speaking of cheating! This really cannot be described with a pen. What a lie, what a shameful answer and what, at least, a deception by Mr Wiebes. He's screwing around, too. Not only do we now know that he did know those memos, but he made the most important of those memos himself. And then say to a journalist, "I wouldn't know what document you're talking about." That's sneaky, that's cheating and it can't be. Today, since yesterday, at least we know those facts. I don't know if we know all the facts, but we know those facts after months of shadowiness and cunning. And that's not new, because the VVD doesn't come up with the facts until there's really no other way. We saw that earlier with the receipts of Teeven, we saw that in Zijlstra's already mentioned lie about Putin's datha, and we now see that again with the memos about the dividend tax. Protecting one's own interests, protecting one's own VVD clan is always more important to Prime Minister Rutte than the interests of the Netherlands. That's political vandalism. This is a sign of politicians who do not care about citizens, who have fun taking people's voices by, for example, abolishing the referendum, shamelessly squandering their taxpayers' money abroad, and meanwhile, as at present, trying to turn a blind eye to the people's representatives. We in the PVV Group have had enough of that. Millions of Dutch people have had enough of that. So get the hell out of here, I'll tell the cabinet, but at least to Mr Rutte and Mr Wiebes. Because if we accept this, if we accept this twisting and conning and cheating on Parliament, with their manipulations and their word games, then once again it has been proven that this Chamber is a fake parliament, dominated by jaknogs who only approve of everything and swallow it for power. I therefore ask the Prime Minister and Mr Wiebes to honour themselves and to resign. If they don't, I'll file a motion of censure against them in the second term. If this motion were to be adopted, we would not only be rid of this terrible, lying, deceptive cabinet, but also of this absurd measure of spending almost EUR 1.5 billion on foreign spending. Then that money can be spent on the Dutch, because that too is what we want to be spent on the Dutch as PVV. It's Dutch tax money, paid by those ordinary Dutch. The Dutch crave lower burdens. That is right and we must give it to them. So get out of here with that measure, get out with Rutte and Wiebes and please both of you never come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u14	Madam President. After the cabinet took office, we initially had a debate almost weekly on the dividend tax. I remember the debate on the Declaration of Government, the General Financial Reviews and then 15 November. After that, the draft came in. There's been a hole of a few months. There is reason to continue this debate today, because in recent months we have heard from all kinds of mouths and in all sorts of words and keys that there were no memories of a memo on dividend taxation on the negotiating table. To quote a little bit from Prime Minister Rutte: "To my best knowledge, there have been no conclusions. To my best knowledge, there has in any case been no memo that has been asked out through the informant or informal, but of course all kinds of texts in the making that are part of a formation process. To my best knowledge, this is the honest answer I give here." That "knowing to my best" is always a safe formulation: you can always rely on it if something turns out to be wrong. But together with the remarks of the negotiators of the coalition parties, the impression has all been created and the picture established that there were no memos. So now we know they're here. My group still has the necessary questions to answer. Why did the Prime Minister at first act so shady and summon so much fog, a fog that seemed to limit both political vision and memory? I feel that not much effort has been made to make progress in the "to my best knowledge." Why hasn't the memory been actively refreshed and hasn't the memos been checked lately? And why couldn't an intrusive parliamentary debate bring about what a simple third party WOB request could do? Mr. Chairman. The memos have now been published. This is useful, and we would like to take advantage of it if we were to talk in the Chamber about the legislation in which these plans would be drawn up. The SGP Group is also in favour of as much openness as possible after the formation process has ended. The protection of officials and negotiators should not be a licence to withhold relevant information from the Chamber. At the same time, we have always understood that the confidentiality of the formation talks, which is necessary for successful negotiations, can also mean that documents remain confidential. This is certainly true when there are personal policy views of officials. Therefore, even though it is fine and good to have access to it now, this publication does raise questions about the future course of action for future formations. It is motivated by the reasoning: go ahead, for once, because there is so much fuss about it. But what does that mean for the future? What is the expected impact of publishing memos under political pressure on the preparation of such documents? Again, the more openness can be offered, the better. But the risk is always, as VVD leader Toxopeus said in 1967, President, you know that we are 100 years old, so you have some quotes from the past: "Openness and openness sometimes raise new secrecy. People who know that something will be published sometimes take this into account." In short, greater openness, which we welcome in itself, will not help us if it gives us a memory of the future or if we resort to an unwritten informal circuit. That is why, not so much for now but for the future, I would like to hear a reflection from the Prime Minister. Finally, Mr President. The shadowiness surrounding the memos has caused a lot of distrust and harmed the credibility of politics. With a lot of verbal trapeze work, the existence of memos on dividend taxation remained out of the open, while there was a lot of political and social discussion about it. That's unfortunate. I therefore hope that this debate will contribute to greater clarity and greater confidence in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Once upon a time, there was a welfare state for multinationals. It was just a very small country and it was right here, where we are now. That little country had a few tax rules, not so much, you know! But there was another one that was about dividend. No one really suffers from this except the shareholders of companies based in the Netherlands as well as in England. That's two of them. One is the former employer of Minister Wiebes and the other allowed the Prime Minister to sell peanut butterpots in the past: Shell and Unilever. They wanted to get rid of the dividend tax, because it affected them. No one saw anything else about abolishing the dividend tax, especially in the Ministry of Finance. Memos and well-known knowledge there say: "You can abolish it, but then you actually do this: you shift the tax burden of foreign shareholders, actually foreign governments, to Dutch taxpayers. You can abolish the dividend tax, but then you actually say to all Dutch citizens: do you want to cough up, because Unilever likes it." The Treasury Department knew about this. The financial spokesmen knew this as well and there is an important first question: how credible is it that highly appreciated MPs then still called Schouten, Koolmees; very respected financial spokesmen didn't touch on the memo that we now have to believe has convinced everyone at the negotiating table, a VVD triad? How credible is it that those financial spokesmen didn't say, "Hey, that's not gonna help anyone at all; 1.4 billion, you know what kind of things we can do with that? This means, for example, that we cannot allow the VAT increase on fruit and vegetables to continue and we keep the Netherlands healthier. That's for everyone's benefit." Mr. Chairman. I want an honest response from the Prime Minister to exactly how that turned out. What information did the negotiators have at any table? I do not care what the table is and what was the position of the financial spokesmen and the group chairmen who had to negotiate with the Prime Minister and the current Minister for Economic Affairs? Have they pushed through their measures like a forced country, or have there been any objections? Reasoned objections because these people knew that abolishing the dividend tax would only serve the interests of Unilever and Shell. Mr President, the next item is the continuation of the debate. Of course, the Chamber had questions. Where did this measure come from? Where's the backup? There were no memos, there was no memory of memos. I would like to present to the Prime Minister three scenarios, given the follow-up he himself gave to them. What are we supposed to believe? We can choose between three things. One. The Prime Minister is suffering from notorious amnesia. I don't know a universe where that's a recommendation to any leader. The second scenario is that this cabinet under the leadership of this Prime Minister decides on 1.5 billion a year without being interested in the justification or the effects. I do not think that is a recommendation for a leader either. The third scenario is that this Prime Minister has a legendary contempt for the citizen. I'm sure the people at home are aware of that. I would remind the Prime Minister that we are here in this Chamber, the highest body in parliamentary democracy, on behalf of those citizens. They don't believe that when the Prime Minister says, "Well, I don't remember seeing any pieces about that"? When the game comes true, Rutte's pattern is that he says: I unintentionally gave the impression that there were no pieces at all. Everyone knows: you were meant to give that impression. And then he said to his conscience: I have no memory of pieces. Really, is that the honor and is that the Prime Minister's conscience? Mr. Chairman. On behalf of all the citizens in the Netherlands, who are really not crazy, I say that it is time for a cabinet, for a leader we can trust. That is essential, because there are very important big things to do. We need to stop climate change. There must be strong measures for this and then it cannot be that citizens think at home: yes, but yes, those people there in The Hague do but what, they do what suits themselves; they have no memory of pieces, they lie only a little for, they are not interested in the effects. It is of the utmost importance that the leaders of this country enjoy the full confidence of the citizens and hence of the Chamber. On behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals, I can say that the Prime Minister is very far from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr President, thank you. Memos and remembrance of things that don't pass away. There he was, somewhat lonely. It was starting to shine. He took a look at the court pond, the court pond. A quote by Machiavelli shot him in the head: "What is more beautiful than making ruler friends with the money of others?" That money was there now. He had skilfully defrauded that money from the Dutch people in crisis time. That money from the people he could now make flow to the multinationals. For ten years, since the beginning of his prime ministership, he has been carefully and systematically stalked by Shell and Unilever. At last it was possible. Finally there was a window of opportunity. A long-cherished wish of big business could be fulfilled. But why did it gnaw at him anyway? He almost got desperate from the memos of those smart and conscientious officials. All this justified criticism of abolishing the dividend tax, he was distraught by it. Because the criticism was comprehensive. "It doesn't get jobs." "It doesn't improve our locational climate." "It's bad for our fiscal image." "The tax burden of SMEs will go up." "It only makes money for other governments." The more critical memos he took, the bigger the challenge became to make it work anyway. That's Rutte. And he tormented himself with the question: "Who oh who can I ask within my team of loyal followers to make the document that turns everything in an illustrious way? Who makes a tuber a lemon? Who could do that? Who can make 5 A4's of 50 sides of argument?" It must have been somewhere in that time frame that he came to a brilliant hunch. Suddenly he had it. There was one man who could do this. "Wiebes!', He yelled out loud. Of course, the son of a nuclear physicist, the man who reads Russian novels in bathtub, who's spouting. You couldn't get mad at Wiebes. "If Wiebes does this for me, I'll promote him to minister," he introduced himself. So thought, so done: with Wiebes' document he went to the main table. While on the tax side table were the critical memos of the officials, he negotiated at the main table with the magic document of wizard Wiebes in his pocket. Pechtold, Buma and Segers swallowed the contents like sweet crap. It went in as God's word in an elder. However, the Prime Minister knew that this was only the first hurdle. Now they had to send the opposition with a brat in the reeds. But in parliament, you had to be a little careful what you said, the Prime Minister had already become wise because of damage and shame. There's Asscher, for example. And with Asscher he had been in the cabinet spoon for five years. If he was just coughing, Asscher already knew what he meant. And Asscher knew that the Prime Minister was a control freak and had an excellent memory. That's why he had to instruct his accomplices properly. The Prime Minister called them together. He said, "Hey, Alexander, do you do that reference to the ticket with Bitches, that takes the angel out a little bit. When people laugh, they forget the contents. I use that trick myself a lot. And Buma, then you're being a little condescending, a little off the charts. Yes, you can. That's what you're master and master of. Then I'll do it myself with "I don't have any memories of it." I'm sure they'll fall for that again. And I'm shouting something about "down to the bottom of my fibers." "And I," asked Segers, "shall I do that with the swallowing of a whole melon?" The others looked at him ununderstandably. Segers remained a bit weird since Pechtold had openly let him get away with it. And the four accomplices agreed with each other: "No matter what happens, we deny everything, if necessary by hand on our hearts. We deny that there are memos, because our credo is: it is now or never; everything for Shell and 'Unilèver'." And there they went again, the four sizes of multinationals, the magicians of big business, the Daltons of dividend tax. They survived all the critical questions of the opposition on November 15, but... You can fool parliament in the Netherlands, but fortunately we still have researchers. Fortunately, there is also the Public Administration Act. Two academic heroes, Jan van de Streek and Martijn Nouwen, made a WOB request to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry refused. This did make the ball roll. And Wiebes, by agreement, denied everything. Well, at least that's what he did verbally. Koolmees and Schouten told us that they had negotiated at the tax side table. And here we are again. Mr. Chairman. Honestly, I'm done. That brings me to the end of my speech. I am done with the fact that once again we stand here as an opposition to do our job well and that we are hindered by the Prime Minister, who, with his well-known tricks, tries to avoid, deny and disprove. As Paul Rosenmöller said in 2001, the Lower House is not a detective agency. We're here in parliament and not in some recording of Sherlock Holmes, aren't we? Mr. Chairman. We can do two things. We can continue this frustrating political game or we can ask the Prime Minister to clean up, to tell us openly and transparently how things have gone and to get rid of the dividend tax, which no one thinks is a good idea. I'm looking at the Prime Minister. What does he choose? Does he choose the Dutch people and the truth? Or does he choose Shell and Unilever? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman. It's not a pretty scene. I said Monday, it's a mess. First a report on the dividend tax documents following a WOB request. Afterwards, on Friday, some of the people involved remembered those pieces. Other people involved in the formation said they didn't know anything about it. Then there was confusion about what is a "piece," what is a "formative piece" and what matters. Soon it all just became memos. But then not all memos are formal formation pieces, not everything has been seen by everyone and not everything has been discussed in the same place. There are main tables, which do not know what is on the side table, and there is confusion about who had what role and what arrangements there are now between the Chamber and the forming parties. Pieces weren't supposed to go public, they didn't have to go public. They were then made public, although they are still not formally part of the formation file. Mr. Chairman. If you follow this issue at home, I understand you're thinking: what a foggy place there in The Hague. At the same time I say: no matter how messy and misty it is, it does not automatically mean that it is also wrong. When I try to look at it from a distance, I see a lot of different views, a lot of confusion of speech and a lot of confusion. Today, in the debate, I think it is necessary to clarify what has happened, what the facts are, what is good to explain, what is difficult to explain and what may not be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u21	I would like to hear from Mr Dijkhoff what he himself knew about these documents and when.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u22	Like every MP, I received the documents last night. I read them today. That's the answer to that. I go to the question about the documents because they are now public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u23	Does Mr Dijkhoff suggest that these documents were never discussed during the coalition talks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u24	No, I'm not asking, because I answered the question when I saw the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u25	Let me now turn to the question of whether these documents were ever discussed at the coalition meeting before last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u26	Not before last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u28	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u29	Very briefly, yes. That's going the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you. So Mr Dijkhoff's statement is that he was never discussed with him about the existence of these documents before last Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u31	Last Friday? We were just talking about Monday. I'm just trying to answer the questions. I've seen the pieces for the first time. In the formation I was in a feedback group. That's where the subject was discussed. We have had previous debates on this, including in the Chamber. We've assessed the coalition agreement. But these pieces are new to me. Frankly, I do not think that it is so relevant what else I have discussed with whom in the formation period, because we in the Chamber have agreements on what may or may not become public. I will also ask some questions about how we can deal with this in the future. Anyway, these documents are now public, so I can tell you when I've seen them. That's: seen today, received yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u32	Last time at this point. It's relevant because we have a prime minister who says he can't remember. Friday I read the newspaper and then suddenly there were pieces. Mr Dijkhoff is a leading politician within the VVD. It's also about his responsibility. If he knew those pieces, for example because he knew Wiebes' VVD memo in the feedback, it wouldn't have been so crazy if he had said to the Prime Minister somewhere in the last six months: "Hey, you said there were no pieces? I think I saw something. Are you sure?" That is why it is important to know whether Mr Dijkhoff ever knew these documents or any form of these documents at any time and whether he has ever exchanged a word with the Prime Minister. That's the relevance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u33	I'd already answered those questions, I believe, and I understand the relevance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u34	In a previous debate, Mr Dijkhoff pointed out that the abolition of the dividend tax is a gamble. I wonder on the basis of which documents he has substantiated that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u35	I did call it "a gamble" back then. I have now switched to "substantiated assessment." I'll give you a description of how this goes. There will be a government agreement; that was concluded by the negotiators. That then goes to the group. As a member of the group, you read the coalition agreement. You can ask questions about that on occasion. But of course I look from my political conviction and my image of the Netherlands. I may look at such a measure differently from Mr Azarkan. I know that I have also endorsed an electoral programme for this, which we want to do a great deal to improve the location climate in the Netherlands for everyone, from small start-up to the welfare mother who wants to start a shop of her own to the headquarters of large multinationals. I think you should serve them all, because our economy is excessive compared to the country we are. So when I see such a measure, I am positive about it in advance: a tax will be abolished, it will not be shifted to another place in the age of a Brexit, in which companies will have to choose where to settle. I thought that was a logical measure. I have not asked for any further justification, as you have a conviction on many things and an assessment that it is good for the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u36	In conclusion, Mr Dijkhoff says: I come to the conclusion that this is good on the basis of my own assessment and I am in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. Has there never been a time when Mr Dijkhoff thought: I, as leader of a large political party, am being asked to consider whether it really works? Researchers say that the climate of establishment does not improve. Mr Dijkhoff says: I assume that will happen immediately. On what basis does he come to that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u37	I'm gonna take it a little bit wider. I believe that every party has positions here that they are keen on, but on which there is also advice not to do so. I believe, for example, that there are a lot of official opinions and public reports on the need not to eliminate one's own risk in the care sector. I respect parties who say that they have a different view and want to do so. I therefore find it unfair to ask parties at once on which reports their political views are based. We don't have a technocracy. Sometimes I get convinced, sometimes I have a different assessment. Then I find an opinion too cautious or I think that its reluctant aspects are too much to prove in advance of the effect. It can't always be. Then you come up with your own political assessments and then I am in favour of these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u38	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to abolishing dividends or taxes in general, I hear Mr Dijkhoff say that this is part of the VVD's ideology, so we are in favour of that. I find this interesting, because if it had stood: should we abolish corporate tax as a whole, will you do so on the basis of your own information, or will you be talking to specialists and people who can interpret it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u39	That also depends on the role you have. This is a product from the coalition agreement, and as a member of the political group, you judge the entire coalition agreement and you are not the chief negotiator. You're not gonna do the work all over again. But again, content, we have a whole election program that exhales... It also contains, I believe, a whole page on the location climate. We wanted the coalition agreement to include measures which, in our view, favour the locational environment. That's a goal. It could have been done in a different way. Let me say, that's the goal, that's Rome, that's where you want to go. But it is not necessarily said in our election programme: it must be done along that road. So I'm open to other roads, too. Of course, everything I read now in the documents we now have is also very recognizable criticism. Your group, as well as other groups in the Chamber, we have debated this twice. These arguments have also been exchanged. I want to reassure you that it is not that when you tell them, I think "it will, but I don't believe them" and that if an official writes them down, I am convinced. I'm listening to the contents of your work, and to the others. If I am not convinced in the debate to refrain from doing so, then my weighting of those arguments is no different than once when they appear to have been in a memo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u40	I am never there, so Mr Dijkhoff has to correct me if it is not true, but if I am not mistaken, there is every Monday morning consultation between the group chairmen of the coalition parties to agree things. On 16 March, a decision on the WOB request of the researchers of the University of Amsterdam was sent from the Ministry of Finance. It contains a list of the documents that were there about abolishing the dividend tax and states: you have asked for disclosure but you do not get them. Has the letter, the rejection, been discussed in the conciliation between the group chairmen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u41	No, but while I'm answering this question, I wonder if it's okay to discuss these kinds of questions. When it comes to differences in information, I understand, but I do not think that we have agreed that coalitions, parties or parties should tell solo in their group meetings here what they have all discussed in certain consultations. I answered the question because I prefer to clarify it in this context, but I do not really want to make it a habit of saying what I am discussing with my fellow Members in debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u42	If this government were to function normally and have a bit of morality, it would not be necessary at all. But we are now supposed to believe that if Mr Dijkhoff wants to have it, he can also get it even if the best man of the VVD who has been put forward to lead the country is suffering from notorious amnesia. Does the VVD now consider that a recommendation for the leader of this cabinet and this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u43	As far as I'm concerned, you're not supposed to believe anything. I only hope that you, as a Member of Parliament, will listen to the facts and the answers and then judge you. What that judgment is really up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u44	This is too easy. Mr Dijkhoff is trying to draw this debate to: well, also annoyingly, there has been a little fog and some confusion, let us look at it and use this debate to find out what was going on. Yeah, fucking hell! There's been some misdemeanor. Of course, the opposition parties here are very critical, also in the direction of the group chairman of the largest party here in the Chamber, who, in fact, has delivered the Prime Minister who is not working very well; let me say it carefully. So a somewhat sharper, reflective attitude by even the largest government party would have been appropriate here. Mr Dijkhoff can really take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u45	I do not have the impression that my input, which I am also going to make, before I have delivered it, is judged completely fair by the typification that Mrs Ouwehand gives it. I gave a qualification about this on the first page I had arrived at, and I also have a whole series of questions to the cabinet about this. I was going to get there. And I'd like answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr Dijkhoff begins his speech with qualifications of this process. We have heard him mention it before: "dirty" and "not a best image." I wonder whether Mr Dijkhoff agrees with me that this is not just messy, but that it is also about credibility. There are no memories of pieces, and suddenly there appear to be memories of pieces, which are then made public. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that this is not only messy, but that this is also about credibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u47	That is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr Dijkhoff believes that this is also about credibility. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that, to put it mildly, it is unbelievable if one of his own party mates, even on Friday, says quite annoyed to a journalist: no, there is no note and I do not know of any memos; what are you talking about? It then turns out that your fellow party member has delivered a note himself among other things. You think that's unbelievable, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u49	I shall abstain until, as Mr Klaver pointed out, people have had the opportunity to give their own answers. So I do have questions about that myself. I'm not saying I don't have a judgment right now. I think it's messy and clumsy already. I will assess, on the basis of the answers, whether I think it is worse than that, but it will not be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u50	"Rumble and clumsy" is a great understatement in this course of things. However, we await Mr Dijkhoff's judgment. As a follow-up, the offer letter we received yesterday from the Prime Minister states that there is a document that, I quote: 'in my own party was drafted by then Secretary of State Wiebes'. You say that you only read the documents provided yesterday this morning. So that also means that you had not seen the 'party document', because that is apparently the new wording, even before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u51	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u52	So there's a document inside the VVD that the Prime Minister says was actually our ammunition. That's how I'm supposed to see it. With that, he went to visit the coalition partners. It has been established within your own party, and also as a coalition partner. But you haven't seen that in either way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u53	No. I can explain this with a trip to another subject. I myself, for example, spent more time in formation trying to find a compromise in the area of migration. I've typed a bit for that myself. That didn't go through other people first. It's a bit of a delegation process. It's mostly: trying to get you out. And when that succeeded, mostly the reaction was: hallelujah, what nice, four parties have come up with a difficult theme. With this I draw it to a subject that I know more about, to clarify. It's not like I wrote a piece and then we had a group meeting or a party congress where we discussed that piece. So it's not the case that pieces in other areas, especially if they weren't your background or your expertise, were widely discussed or shared in the party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u54	Finishing at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u55	Yeah, definitely finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I think this is completely unbelievable. Mr. Dijkhoff says: I've also typed a bit. Excuse me, it's about a party piece that's the new wording "in this case" written by Minister, then still Secretary of State, Wiebes. Let's give you the benefit of the doubt. Let me believe you didn't see all this. Then, to say the least, you must be extremely indignant towards your partymates, do you think, if you are questioned here for hours about the existence of those pieces, which appear to have been drawn up by your own party? It turns out that your own Prime Minister has taken it to the farmer, but you don't know anything about it. Aren't you angry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u56	No, Mr Wiebes has not seen my piece on migration either. That's what we're about and I don't think we're upset about again. I'm not mad about it. I'll tell you later how I feel it should have been better not to get into this situation. But I am not upset that in a negotiation process where I am not a negotiator, a fellow party member who has been asked to type a piece. I'm not so arrogant that I think I should see everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u57	I can imagine that the first representative of the VVD is quite happy when he hears about a measure that provides tax relief. But has the VVD realized that we are talking about roughly 15 billion in ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u58	Yeah, 1.4 times 10 is 14. That's right. I do not want to take anything away from it, but Mr Krol specifically mentions 15 billion in ten years. I have especially realized that this is an amount that we are no longer collecting and that we are doing this for several positive reasons. This is a more attractive locational environment, where you hope that other companies that still have to choose where to go will come to the Netherlands. In addition, you try to mitigate a risk of companies leaving. Indeed, when companies leave, they do not pay a dividend tax. You'll lose that amount, too. Then they don't pay a lot of other taxes and we don't have a lot of jobs for Dutch people, which they also pay taxes on. In the broader context of business attractiveness, which gives us a good economy that we can pay well for care, education, pensions and AOW, I support this consideration to improve our locational environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u59	Madam President. During the time when I was still in the VVD, we were very concerned within the VVD about the consequences of such a thing. We are talking about EUR 15 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises. 'Cause your own loyal supporters aren't getting any better. Has there been any thought within the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u60	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. We believe that it is in the interests of SMEs to operate in an economy that is not one-sided, especially if you want to keep it as much larger as our country is big. We also think that they benefit from the fact that there are all kinds of companies, from small to large and from start-up to head office, in the Netherlands because there is also a lot of distracted work. And this also increases the chance for other companies to think, "Hey, they're not gonna be there for nothing. The Netherlands is also an interesting option for us."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr President, thank you. I am pleased that Mr Dijkhoff points out that this debate affects his view of how the cabinet operated in this area. I would like to advance on one matter, because I think we can do that. It has to do with those 60 pages of memos that all colleagues, of which I have asked 23 times on 15 November, have just been announced. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that these memos should have been shared with the Chamber in November?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u62	No, Mr President, because I think it should have been discussed more carefully at the time, so that they did not need to be shared. I'll come back to that later. This is not originally a thing between Cabinet and Chamber. This is about an election, after which you have a Chamber, which must form a new coalition. You've got negotiating parties in there. I think those parties should know where they stand in advance. One of the rules we have, for example, is that there will be no information file if an information fails. I'm not gonna be you-baking, but if it doesn't work out, there's not gonna be an information file, and I respect that. It didn't work out, so you can't explain the context of possibilities, options or partial chords without knowing what the whole picture had looked like. If we think that the agreements we have made on what is an information file and what is not, are not good, then we must change them in advance. If we agree that type x and type y should be included in the dossier and not the rest, then the rest should not be part of the political debate. I do not blame the opposition for asking for this, but questions about this type of document should be answered in a very strict form, not in the way that has been done today, so that the documents which do not belong in the file and should not actually be discussed should be drawn to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr. Chairman. In fact, Mr Dijkhoff says that the existence of these documents should never have been denied in November. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u64	I would have liked to have been answered to your question as to whether there is one piece, or whether there are five or eight or a hundred: 'if they are not in the information file, it is not relevant to our discussion'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u65	I know Mr Dijkhoff and I appreciate the answer, also because he is doing it so relaxed. However, I asked a rather specific question, namely whether he felt that there should not have been a negative answer here to the question whether those memos existed. That's actually a pretty simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u66	I don't think you have to deny it, but you have to state that they are not relevant to the discussion, because they are not covered by the agreements that we as a Chamber make among ourselves of what is being transferred and made public. Whether or not they're here is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mr President, these documents have been denied. That's what got the ball rolling. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that this is a question of the obligation to provide information to the Chamber and that it is a question of whether it has been sufficiently complied with? If there's just been stone-cold denial in the Chamber that those pieces exist, isn't that a mortal sin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr President, I find that complicated. That's why I find it at least clumsy how it went, like I said. Something new has happened by denying that to Mr Klaver. By not saying "dude, it doesn't matter if they're there and how many, because they're not part of the file and they shouldn't be in this debate" and by denying it, you're creating a new fact. If it turns out to be so, it's part of the discussion. I get that. That's why I think it's a good thing they've been released. I still struggle with the question of when it's a formation matter between the Chamber, and when it turns into a new cabinet, which then becomes a kind of overruler of the formation process, and then you get into the regular rules of information provision between Chamber and Cabinet. I find it too faint to say: after the debate with the informant, the case is closed, and clean slate. That's why I won't say that. That's why I think it's okay that we send this and talk about it now. But I find it too easy to say: we first make agreements on how forming parties should deal with it. Then there are also things that we know exist, but they do not come to the Chamber. That's part of the deal. After that, there is a cabinet, and then these things would be subject to the public at once with retroactive effect. No, then you'll have the Act of Publicity that governs that. If there is any dissatisfaction with the way things are going, then we should look at the evaluation to see if we want to make any other arrangements for the next formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr Klaver, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u70	Yes, Chairman, finally. This is the rehearsed line of defense. I asked for something else. I asked the following question. The Chamber has not been informed of this, there has been a negative reply. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that at the moment there is talk that the Chamber has been misinformed and that that is a mortal sin? Does he simply agree with that as a fellow MEP?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mr. Chairman. If only I had rehearsed it, I could have repeated it now! I'm just expressing my opinion, and the complexity that I just see. It is a question of which process it actually falls under. It does not fall under the case cabinet and chamber, it falls under the process forming coalition forming parties and informant, and the information agreements we have on this. I find it difficult to say: we make agreements that in that process some things do not have to go to the Chamber. It would then be necessary to specify specifically what is and what is not. And then you say: yes but now there is a cabinet, now all those pieces from the formation that according to the formation arrangements did not have to go to the Chamber, at once are part of the information provision. I think that what I said earlier is better than using a tight line and consistently conveying this formalistic line and not saying 'it is not relevant whether they are there'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u72	Following on from Mr Klaver's question. Does Mr Dijkhoff think that if the Prime Minister is here on behalf of the cabinet on 15 November, he can deny something he knows does exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u73	Then the crux is in "know." I do not think you should do that, but I also think that the Prime Minister should be given the opportunity to explain how that went before I judge how it happened in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u74	I couldn't agree more. We're having the whole debate. So the prime minister gets every chance. But I'm asking you now. And that, of course, is what happened: that you deny something that turns out to be. Do you think the Prime Minister can do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u75	No. But then you assume whether or not I hear that in the question 'that it was so that you know that at the time'. So there is also a question as to whether that was conscious. I have a whole series of questions about that. I want the answer to that first before I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u76	I didn't lay down any further assumptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u77	No, Mr Dijkhoff has the floor. Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u78	Well, I have a series of questions about that that I hope to be able to ask today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u79	That assumption wasn't in there. Then we don't have to keep that whole complex story about formation or not. Eventually there is the fact that something has been denied which turns out to be so. And that's relevant. And then we come to the assessment of whether we think that has happened consciously. In my view, that is also the political question, which the VVD should also address. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u80	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Saying something that doesn't make sense, that could be because you know it doesn't make sense and yet it says so. But it may also be that you don't know exactly at the time. I think we need to ask questions about that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u81	I have one final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u82	Yeah, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u83	Wouldn't it be a good thing if someone else noticed that something was said that wasn't right, he would just warn the Prime Minister, to prevent such a nasty and messy situation from arising as it is today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u84	Yeah, of course there's no problem with someone doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mr. Dijkhoff says that depends a little on whether or not someone really knows. It turns out the Prime Minister knew, didn't he? After all, since yesterday we know that he has ordered himself to make such a piece of memo, party piece, whatever we want to call it, but at least to make a document. So that kite that maybe he doesn't remember if it doesn't have any memories, it doesn't even go on at all? How does Mr. Dijkhoff feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr. Chairman. I'm not ruling that out. That's why I have a lot of questions. And I would like to hear an answer to that first before I add any further qualifications to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u87	I do not understand very well what Mr Dijkhoff does not exclude. Since yesterday, I think we know that the Prime Minister himself has requested that party piece. Then you or the Prime Minister can't hide behind it that there were no memories of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u88	I'm not hiding. Indeed, it raises some questions and I'd like to ask them. I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer, and I will listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr Klaver has just asked extensive questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u91	Yes, but this is the crux of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u92	You will have the opportunity in a moment, but I would also like to leave the opportunity to Mr Dijkhoff to finish his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u93	I understand. This was actually Mrs Marijnissen's question, so I will not go into that. Let's assume the Prime Minister didn't know about it at the time. As soon as you find out, aren't you still obliged to report that to the Chamber? The moment there's a WOB request and it gets clear that there are a lot of documents, you're obliged as a cabinet to report it to the Chamber, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u94	These are like-dan questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u95	No, it really happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u97	If you want to know what really happened, I think it would be wise to pass on that question. You then assume that the Prime Minister has seen that WOB request, and I think that is an interesting question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u98	I never thought I would have to say this to Mr Dijkhoff, but the cabinet speaks with one voice. Whether the Minister of Finance has seen it or the Prime Minister, I don't care very much. A WOB request was made following a debate on 15 November. I can't imagine anyone in the cabinet didn't notice that at the time. I've asked 23 times for those memos. It becomes clear following such a WOB request in the process that those memos are there. Then that is the time to say as a cabinet "oh, I made a mistake; they are there and we send them to the House of Representatives." Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u99	The cabinet speaks with one mouth, but the cabinet doesn't have one memory. That might be helpful. I do think you are taking an advance on a situation that I am curious about. I would like to pass on that question. I would like to know how that has been scaled up and who has been aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u100	Actually, I'd like to suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u101	This is too easy. This is really...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u102	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u103	This is the last question. It's too easy to say you want to pass this on. We know there's been a WOB request. We know that it has shown that there were 29 documents. At such a time, it is known within the government that this is happening, and that is when the government must inform the House of Representatives because we had asked 23 times for it. All I ask is: do you agree with me? If Mr Dijkhoff is really serious when he says 'I am open in this debate and I am not here to defend the cabinet; I want to hear the answers and then I will judge', if you really mean that, you should not ignore them in this place, but give me an honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u104	I answer honestly, but Mr Klaver says 'it is known'. I don't know. I want to know. Mr Klaver seems to know for sure that a WOB request came in and that all sorts of lines started running. Well, it'd be good if that line was running, so I'm curious how that went. I can't tell if everyone in the cabinet already knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u105	For the traffic between Chamber and Parliament is not relevant who in the cabinet knew? Ministers fell over that! It is the list that became known; it was known in the cabinet. It has been decided not to respond to the WOB request. It was a decision of this cabinet, while the only right action at that time would have been to share the information equally with the Chamber. I understand that you are trying to defend your cabinet, I understand that you are trying to defend the Prime Minister, but do not turn your back on the facts and be honest as a parliamentarians: this information was known to the government and should have been shared with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u106	I was legally trained once, but for the chapter on defending someone, I think you have to do something different than I am doing right now. I'm trying to look at the facts and give them a fair weighting. The WOB request is rejected, but I think the error lies much earlier in the response to the demand for those documents, which actually stretched the information file. On the basis of the WOB it did not have to be given. In the new law, the Act on Publicity or Government, what is the name of this thing, Chamberwide adopted an amendment by the Christian Union and the PvdA which explicitly points out that there may also be contact between officials and MPs that is not public. I can translate that into an information process here too. I'm just gonna sit here and see how you weigh this. I think it's an interesting question. I am still struggling with the question of when something is an information file and when something is going on in the Chamber or in the Cabinet. I find it complicated to indicate a weighting in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u107	I can help Mr Dijkhoff because he is going back to the beginning of our little debate on the interruption. Through this WOB request it became known that these memos are there. Then it's known to the government, because they've been made public. At that point, it should have been shared with the Chamber. At that moment it becomes clear that the government has misinformed the House of Representatives. That is the moment when the government has to decide independently to go to the Chamber and say: we are terribly sorry; indeed, I had no memory of it, but, by the way, we have 29 documents and we are going to share them with you. The question is not: are you from the VVD or am I from GroenLinks, are you coalition or opposition? This is about our role as representatives of the people and about the information position of the Chamber. If the Cabinet is aware that there is information, it must be shared with the Chamber. I hope you agree. That weighing isn't that complicated, Mr. Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u108	You've made your point, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u109	If I was standing here just to defend the color of the party, I would have given a completely different answer. I'm really trying to taste the transition of formation pieces. A WOB request should simply be judged on the basis of that law. Not every piece of a WOB request has to go to the Chamber. I am just trying to trace it back to the fact that some of the documents have been said that they are not there and that they have been found out at the WOB request that they are there. Then it is good if the train starts to walk in a cabinet, which makes all the people involved aware. If you are aware of it, then it is indeed so neat to say it to the Chamber. But I'm on the train of awareness before I make an accusation somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u110	I'm going back to what the VVD colleague just said. If you say there are no other memos, like Prime Minister Rutte did, and they turn out to be, then you have a new fact. That's what the VVD colleague just said. If you said there were no other memos and they turned out to be there, isn't it true that you lied?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u111	That depends. It's getting very semantic now. I don't want to say this in defense. But it depends if you knew they were there. If you knew that, you'd have told me an untruth. But at least it doesn't add up. I imagine you think it's about the formation file. I don't really want to speculate about this. I want an answer from the Prime Minister on this point. But if you think that, you have to be clear and say: outside the formation file it is not relevant. That's what I've said before. Don't say it's not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u112	The Prime Minister said it is not there; there are no other memos. But there were, and he knew it. Once again, Mr Wiebes's piece did not just come at the Prime Minister's request. He also so-called informally visited the other negotiators, and he negotiated it. So he asked for it and he had it. In November, he said in the Chamber: there are no other memos. But that was a lie, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u113	It didn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u114	But what's it called if something doesn't add up? The truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u115	No, that's not the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u117	To find out exactly how it went, I also wanted to ask what was going on in the head when it was said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u118	Okay. It's an untruth. Let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr. Asscher, a new point. Otherwise the questions will be repeated over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u120	You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u121	We have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u122	That's right. I agree with Mr Dijkhoff himself. So it is a falsehood, whether conscious or not. But I was just asking him, if an untruth was told, wouldn't it be okay if it was corrected? Wouldn't it be a good idea for others to point this out to the Prime Minister? Now the situation surrounding the WOB request. The spicy thing is that the investigators were asked for a delay first. That's all the time when a bell could ring at Finance, like: hey, they're asking about pieces whose existence has previously been denied. The existence of these pieces has been denied, while a lot of people knew they existed, at least Schouten, Wiebes and Koolmies. Next, on 16 March, five days before the municipal elections, the WOB request was rejected. The Minister of Finance is sitting next to the Prime Minister in the Trêves Room. Wouldn't that be a logical time to say: hey, those are the pieces that have been wrongly denied before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u123	It's possible. I wasn't there and I don't know how that turned out. So we can ask, but I find it complicated to outline all kinds of scenarios how that could have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u124	Do you agree with me that, in order to correct this falsehood politically or not, it is important to know whether the Minister of Finance or the Secretary of State for Finance at the time thought: eh, those are the documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u125	Yes, I have just indicated that I am also curious about the relationship between the WOB request and these documents, how that went within the cabinet. In fact, that is what I have been passing on to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr President, I would like to ask you to extend the request we made earlier to Mr Wiebes, namely to remain available, to the Minister of Finance or to the Secretary of State, so that they can perhaps clarify those questions. I don't know if they're in Paris, but I think that's relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u127	Are you making a proposal now? Are you making a point of order? What is your request?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u128	The request is as follows: A falsehood has been told. We know this at Finance or we could have known it on the basis of the WOB request. The question, which Mr Dijkhoff has just referred to the cabinet, is whether the Minister of Finance or the Secretary of State has realised this at the time. If not, why not? If so, was it then exchanged with the Prime Minister or others? Mr Dijkhoff referred that question to the cabinet. I think it might be important to ask the Minister or the Secretary of State himself on this point, perhaps there will be a crystal clear answer to this question, given the importance for the subsequent weighting, by Mr Dijkhoff among others, of this fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u129	The question I passed on was how it went with the WOB request in relation to these documents. I put it to the Prime Minister, who, as Mr Klaver said, can speak on behalf of the cabinet, who then speaks with one voice. So I don't necessarily need someone else to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u130	I would just like to ask what others think of that, because Mr Asscher has just raised a point of order, a new proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u131	I had another point of order, but I support the request that a ruler be prepared. I'd say that goes for the whole cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u132	I, too, had already made that preliminary announcement because I predicted that it could happen that the Prime Minister would give answers which we say: well, I would like to put that question to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u133	Support for the request. The minister can't remember everything, so if there are others around, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u134	No support for the request. We have now started a debate with two members of the government who have been invited. I think you should only conclude that we need to talk to more ministers if we do not get out with these ministers. But we must first continue the debate with them. I do not think it should be a new figure to ask ministers to stand ready, as if no minister should leave the country. That would be a new figure we don't need. The moment the Chamber invites ministers again, we just expect them to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u135	No objection. Maybe the Cabinet would like to be fully in trade-K one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u136	I believe that Mr Van der Staaij explained it clearly and I agree with what he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u137	How do others feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u138	I think the debate can take its course. If at any time another ruler is needed, I will never stop it. That is what I said at the time of the settlement. But I think these two can answer enough. If it doesn't turn out that way, things are different again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u139	I look at others, too. Mr. Buma?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u140	I'm a little concerned that you've made an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u141	No, I didn't. That is what Mr Asscher did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u142	I think we're just having a debate with two rulers. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u143	Yes, but Mr Asscher has made a proposal and you can give your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u144	I had a different order proposal. I found the debate with Mr Dijkhoff very enlightening: if information is available in the cabinet, it should also be shared, but where did it stick? I would like an overview, actually a timeline, since that WOB request came in and the inventory list is made of all the pieces. I would like to know who in the cabinet shared all of this, and I would like to have it in the Chamber for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr President, on that first point. I agree with what Mr Pechtold said. It wasn't about me that he has to stop what he's doing right now. Pechtold said if he's needed later, I won't stop it. So we wait first for the Prime Minister's answer and, if necessary, we ask him to come to the Chamber. That's a good suggestion. And I support the proposal that Mr Klaver has just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u146	The Prime Minister has already heard it and will certainly say something about it in his term. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u147	The request was specifically about me wanting to have the first deadline, because it is also relevant in the debate with the coalition parties. That may be a rather strange figure, but there are people who have indicated whether or not they have knowledge of it. I think it is important that it should come to the Chamber as soon as possible so that we can involve it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u148	I repeat that the Prime Minister is hearing this and I assume that this will also be responded to. I suggest you continue with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions to the Prime Minister. Are there also documents which, according to the agreements, belong in the formation file but were not in it? Can you indicate the exact difference between the different pieces used in an information? Is every A4 piece also an information piece? How can it be that some negotiators do and others do not have knowledge of certain documents? Who determines which documents are included in the information file and what criteria apply to them? What is the difference between a piece of information and a question by a forming party? At the time of the debate on the declaration of government and the debate on the dividend tax, when the Prime Minister indicated that he had not seen any documents himself, did one of the members of the Cabinet who did see the documents indicate it to the Prime Minister? Has the Prime Minister himself previously or around those debates informed those concerned whether they might have had knowledge of the existence of such documents? When it became clear last Friday that two people involved were aware of memos, did he ask them what happened and why they had not told us? If not, why not? If so, what was their reaction? Since I am one of the people who has asked the Minister of Economic Affairs to join us immediately, I also ask him the following question. On Friday, you indicated that you had no knowledge of it. The letter states that this was a misunderstanding. How about this and can you indicate this misunderstanding? Madam President, as I said before, it's a mess. So I also asked myself the question: how could it have been prevented? Under what conditions would the matter not have arisen? I actually see two variants for that. The first way has actually already been addressed in the case of interruptions, namely that from the outset, the person in question had systematically said the following about memos that do not belong to the formation file. I'm sure there will be, but whether it's one, five or a hundred, they don't belong in the formation file, so they're out of the discussion in the Chamber. I am not going to give them yet, because we have not agreed to that in advance as parties in the Chamber. Parties that are going to form must know in advance what they are up to. That's what we have these agreements for. The documents we've agreed to make them public will be made public. The other pieces won't be. They are not part of the discussion and you cannot be questioned about that either. The question of whether and how many of these pieces are there and who has seen them or not is therefore irrelevant. You can only appeal to us on the outcome of the formation process and the documents of the file. Whoever saw them is irrelevant. That's easy to say afterwards, I admit, because that's not how it happened. By saying earlier that they did not remember or that the documents were not there, they made the document too relevant and opened up to the question of its content and the request to provide it anyway. As I said before, I cannot quite honestly blame the opposition for asking it to do so. The second way in which this could be avoided was if all the documents were immediately made public and added to the information file, for example on the dividend tax. They could have been directly involved in the debate on the declaration of government. However, that is not the agreement we made in advance. We didn't agree that all the pieces, all the papers used, should be in the formation file. The deal is as it is. I also think it is fair to say that I cannot blame other parties for keeping that agreement. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: At the first you keep the hard to explain distinction between a piece in the formation and a formation piece, formal and informal, and you quickly load the suspicion on you, even if you start explaining it, that it is semantics. Along that principle, you might say: let's make everything public; we agree that at least every decision in the coalition agreement should include an accompanying memo in the file, or we agree that you only make public what has been sent to the informant from the outside unsolicited. These are the variants that we may need to discuss once, but we need to keep the balance between the transparency that is needed and the necessary confidentiality of a formation process and how to deal with an information process that does not lead to results. I don't know if those variants are an improvement right now. For me, the essence is that we should agree on it in advance for the next time, when we find, on the basis of the current state of affairs, that it is not satisfactory and that it is not desirable to continue to do so. Mr. Chairman. In 2012, the Chamber unanimously adopted the Pechtold motion which said that forming parties should agree in advance on how documents should be made public after the formation has ended. I have the impression that this opportunity has not been fully exploited and that we could have been spared some of the trouble if more action had been taken. Could the Prime Minister, perhaps, as a former negotiator and reformer, give his reflection on this point? That also raises the question of whose responsibility it is to ensure that this motion is carried out, because it is not really something between the cabinet and the Chamber, but a process of the Chamber itself. Perhaps the President-in-Office of the Council, as the guardian of the formation of the Court of Justice, could shed light on this and make it part of the evaluation of the formation organised under her responsibility. I'm rounding up. Back to the case itself. It is now up to the cabinet to explain what is going on and then we in Parliament can then judge what we think of it, whether it is wrong or whether it is a matter that, however difficult it may be, can be explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u150	Short question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u151	Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that information to be disclosed to the Chamber on the basis of the Public Administration Act should in any event be provided to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u152	Mmm, I'm not sure that's necessarily true. I know, however, that in the new law we have taken care that not all the traffic between Members of Parliament, what it is when they are negotiating, and officials are covered by public access. In my opinion, we should not have to say in the week when we make agreements on formation that this should be public and that this should not be public, and that what we then agree should not be public at a later stage, because then it is at once in a department and covered by a minister should be public. It must be clear in advance what you're up to as a party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u153	Does Mr Dijkhoff not agree with me that it is strange that if a Member of Parliament asks for a specific document, then in this reasoning, the cabinet, the Prime Minister, may say 'no, you will not get it', whereas if that same Member of Parliament made a request for a WOB for that piece, he would get it? That's not how the disclosure to the Chamber works, is it? Mr Dijkhoff agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u154	But then again we are in the information duty of a cabinet towards the Chamber. Here's the hard thing we're talking about a chamber-to-room process. I think that as a chamber for the parties who are going to negotiate and are prepared to compromise, we should make it clear in advance what if it succeeds or fails will become public and that the rest will not be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u155	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u156	This is already provided for in the Public Administration Act. That is why I do not think this is the right answer to my question. After all, if it is a part of a party that only Mr Dijkhoff has been typing on as a VVD, the Public Administration Act will not soon prescribe that it should be made public. But an imaginary memo from the Treasury of 25 August which, on request, mentions a whole row of advantages and disadvantages of abolishing the dividend tax, is covered by the Public Administration Act, I think. The question was whether Mr Dijkhoff was of the opinion that the right to information of the Chamber was actually less than the right of everyone on the basis of the Public Administration Act. For then we are doing ourselves incredibly short in this Chamber and that is the result of his interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u157	I believe that if there is an agreement on a formation, which also provides official support for the process, and it is a document made by an official and which, according to the rules of the Chamber itself, is not subject to public disclosure, the Public Administration Act which should then be respected and should not be made public by any other means. It should be said that this is a document for the purpose of formation, but not for the purpose of the formation dossier, and that is therefore not covered by public access.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mr Dijkhoff makes a number of suggestions on how we can deal with the documents on which formation decisions are based in future. Very good, useful, we may be able to learn something from it in the future. But he did that to find the answer to the question of how we could have prevented this situation. What does he think of the suggestion of just being honest? Could that have helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u159	I think that was my first variant. We would not have come here if it had been said: they might be there, but no matter how many there are; according to the agreements we have made together, they do not become part of the file, they do not become public and should not be part of this discussion. That would have been very honest and I think that could have prevented us from ending up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u160	It's beautiful. But does the VVD really not think it is more than: oh, we now have the experience that that is not convenient, let's do it honestly next time? Does the VVD perhaps also have an opinion on the actions of the Prime Minister and others that he apparently had done the same? Everyone was going to say, "I don't have a memory of memos." That is not confidence in the direction of the Chamber, which stands here on behalf of the citizens. Doesn't the VVD Group have an opinion on the image that the Prime Minister gives on our behalf of all of us in the whole political world? "I don't have a memory": what kind of nonsense is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u162	I can repeat it, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u163	You can also say after my answer that it is nonsense. At least I still feel like I have a chance. I will please you against my own will, at least try to give an answer by repeating what I have said about it. I told him it wasn't pretty. I said it's a mess. I said that it led to a debate in which I recognised that credibility was at stake and called into question, and I said that it was clumsy. I said that it was, and then I asked a lot of questions to hear more facts to see what else I might think of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u164	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u165	Yes, chairman, finally. Look, that sucks at the VVD. It is not a clumsy thing and the VVD really should reflect thoroughly on that one. It's foul play. We cannot have a debate here every time with the VVD after a big mess and then conclude that it would have been better if we had done this or that otherwise, that it was clumsy and that everyone could make a mistake. This is a structural pattern with the Prime Minister, and I miss that reflection with the largest government party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u166	I am a bit of a fan of Mr Dijkhoff. That loose style, an extremely intelligent man. He does that sometimes a little bit with the answer. Mr Dijkhoff began to say that he thought it was actually going wrong at the beginning. He indicated that there should have been an answer: yes, they are there, but they are not part of the documents shared with the Chamber. Then you're done. How likely does Mr Dijkhoff think that if 23 times are asked to deny those memos and the Prime Minister, but also the coalition partners, no one in the Prime Minister's neighbourhood thinks: perhaps we should talk him out of this error?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u167	I didn't give up the odds. It wouldn't be crazy if someone heard that and thought: I know about it; let me tell you. A number of questions I have asked are also relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u168	If that didn't happen then let's say that didn't happen. What does that say about the critical ability of the team around the Prime Minister not to do so? In a number of debates that we have had here, the opposition has put an enormous amount of energy into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u169	If it hadn't happened, it would've been better if it had. There's room for improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u170	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u171	Mr. Chairman. If I said the same question at home after six times, "I have no memory of it," then the reaction would be a cynical "yes, really not." And yet, Madam President, I can assure you that we trust each other very well at home. Then it is not surprising that people in the living room, who already have little faith in most politicians, do not believe anything when they hear members of this cabinet and the group leaders of the coalition parties say that they would have no memory of the piles of memos, letters and notes that eventually came up? Not even a reminder of the physical presentation by officials to the group chairmen. And then there's the stuff with the head tables and the side tables. Yeah, with those excuses, credibility fell deep below zero. Someone in the welfare service who does not remember certain documents will be brought to justice very soon and will be able to repay everything with 100% penalty, but a Prime Minister can apparently insist that he has no memory whatsoever in his honour and conscience. The leader of the Christian Union gets away with it by saying: I can honestly say with the hand on my heart that I don't remember having such a memo. And that while his second admits to having known. "Knowledge," a word that lingers for a moment in this connection. Then the leader of D66. He thought he could take it off with a joke: where's my receipt? The current Minister for Economic Affairs is all over the place. He himself wrote, single-handedly, a memo based on existing notes from Finance and Economic Affairs. The same note was used by the Prime Minister for informal bilateral talks with the negotiators. At that time, the current Minister of Economic Affairs, as the VVD-headpiece Wiebes, spoke about it with Paul Polman of Unilever, and knows nothing afterwards. He wouldn't have seen any part of the dividend tax during the formation. He wouldn't even have interfered. Welcome to the Netherlands, Mr Wiebes, I would like to say, with a variation on the sneer he gave to one of my 50PLUS colleagues last week. Can a man forget so much so quickly? Professor Swaab, the Dutch brain expert, is ready to go. The human brain doesn't forget a memo like that. Literally he says in the Algemeen Dagblad: if you ask me, they're just lying. But the question here is whether or not the Prime Minister and his noble figures remember anything, is not even relevant. In the earlier debate it was simply denied that those memos would be there. Clearly that is not true now, and the Chamber has been misinformed. My colleague Martin van Rooijen said at the time: it is practically certain that there is a note from the Ministry of Finance which carefully balances the pros and cons of abolishing the dividend tax. It now appears that the opponents of Finance excelled in particular. During the first debate, the Prime Minister could not mention any economist who could support this measure. He did not want to give up the list of companies that had put pressure on their VVD. Oh, my God, that's so disgusting. Then the members of the VVD. How are they supposed to feel? I know them very well from my own past. Often benevolent middlemen, the baker on the corner, and good family fathers and mothers. They thought they could trust their party, that their almost repaid mortgage would be safe with the People's Party. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the loser, and the owner of houses who is now able to pay extra by introducing the redemption penalty. And what does it turn out to be? While there was nothing about the abolition of dividend taxation in the liberal electoral programme, those VVD members have to note that the bobos of multinationals are more important than they are. Those bobos didn't submit their proposals to the VVD programme committee either, but called their friends in the party top after the election to settle in backrooms as quickly as possible. Then you must feel like a VVD-chooser. I told you, what a deception! The conclusion of 50PLUS cannot be anything other than that no proper justification has been given and that the lobby of the large company was decisive. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions. Should we as a chamber follow the WOB route from now on if we want information? Why did the Prime Minister use the Brexit argument, which is hardly mentioned in the documents? Why are we talking about a VVD memo? Apart from a handful of high-ranking gentlemen at the top of the VVD, no VVD member had seen this memo by Mr Wiebes. And no VVD-chooser has been able to vote for it or against it. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that it is time for an evaluation of what documents should be made public at and around the formation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u172	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u173	Madam President. Yesterday, the documents made in the formation concerning the dividend tax became public. That is an exception to the rule that documents that do not belong in the information file remain confidential. That was the deal in advance. And so it was in principle also in all earlier formations. In itself the confidentiality of documents in a formation is not the problem. Again, he's always been there. It was in 2012. That was the case earlier, in the negotiations with GroenLinks that were broken down. With everyone's agreement, these documents have remained confidential. At the same time, however, there has been a growing lack of clarity. There's been noise. That noise has dominated the substantive discussion on dividend taxation. In the end, it is not the debate on the measure but the question of who remembers what document when that is going to prevail. That's what made it look like something wasn't right. That's what the coalition has to charge itself. That's why we're here. That is why it is good that the documents have now been made public and that we can have a debate on them. There are two sides to this debate: there is a substantive side to the taxation of dividends, and there is a procedural side to the documents. It simply applies that a political controversy, such as the abolition of dividend taxation, is fine as long as it concerns content. That debate belongs here. We can see how complicated it is now when it comes to the procedure. Mr Dijkhoff has asked quite a number of questions about the procedure, everything about disclosure and everything after that. I also have a number of questions, but I must honestly say that I do not come to any additional questions. For the sake of clarity, therefore, I agree with the questions put by Mr Dijkhoff. I'll get to the content. Madam President... The abolition of the dividend tax is, as far as I am concerned, an important measure. The proposal is part of a package of measures that this coalition has agreed to maintain jobs and companies in the Netherlands. Maybe it's a good thing that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u174	Well, if you finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u175	I've already started the next topic. Maybe the questions are about the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u176	Good. Then I'll take a look: who was first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u177	Me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u178	Mrs Marijnissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Buma indeed moved on to the content. I had another question about the trial. I was curious. As far as I am concerned, Mr Buma has sent out mixed signals in the media. We got a whole set of pieces yesterday, whether they're memos, party pieces or whatever. It was a whole set of documents. Were there any documents that you said, "Hey, I know them; have I seen them?" Or was it all new for you, as was Mr Dijkhoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u180	I'm going to answer that very precisely. I'm very conscious that those pieces aren't going through anymore because I've done my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u182	Yeah, I want to say it exactly. It was a negotiation aimed at reaching a coalition agreement. That's where I got the information I needed. That's the point. That also makes my position different, because my position is also that of negotiator. So then I can either match the contents of what came in yesterday or not with my memory back then, but that doesn't make it any easier. It's just that memory that's been in question so many times. So for me, the core is that I've had a formation. That was a long formation with the aim of establishing a cabinet, in which we talked about dividend taxation. I was responsible for this in the debate on the declaration of government and on 15 November. So I don't have anything to add to what happened then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u183	Mr President, I really do not think it is possible. We have a very serious debate here today. That debate is not about whether Mr Buma has had sufficient information as a negotiator. Yes, ammehula, I would like to say; I would very much like to believe that you had enough information. The debate today is about whether the Chamber has been properly informed at the time we repeatedly asked: are there memos, party documents, documents or whatever it is called, about dividend taxation? And it has been said here: no, there is no memory of that. So I don't like it when Mr Buma says: well, I haven't even looked at the pieces at all. How can Mr Buma have a proper debate here today on the fundamental question of whether the credibility of the Prime Minister himself, who says "I have no memory of the documents" which he later has ordered himself, is at stake?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u184	I'll have to get back to what I just said. This is a debate in which I do not now stand as the double auditor of the government, but as a former negotiator with the aim of reaching a government agreement in seven months' time. Where it has gone wrong in my eyes, it is "what do I remember" and "what is there and what is not" that has taken precedence. I have to say quite frankly that in those seven months I notice that now that I am working on this myself, there is really a lot that you don't remember. Now I can go along with my memory refreshing: this piece I read and when did I see it? That just keeps polluting. What I know, and I think, is that the responsibility I have to take, what I do very consciously, is why I have made a decision. At least, partly for this reason, I made this choice, on the basis of which it is stated that this is all in the file, and I am in the end standing here and still defending the substance of the measure. So I understand your questions. So it's not like I'm thinking, what are you asking? But I am very consciously trying to get away from "yes, but what was my memory?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u185	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u186	No, Mr. Buma wasn't finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u187	No, that was my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u188	Mr Buma says that he is consciously trying to get away from that. Yes, I understand that, but I am asking a very simple question and I would ask Mr Buma to perhaps take a moment to look at that list, because I think it is rather relevant. Mr Buma is here today as chairman of the CDA's political group, and in that capacity I am asking him the question that concerns, among other things, whether or not to inform the Chamber correctly. It seems to me that it is rather relevant that you take note of the documents sent last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u189	My point is that I experienced what we did at that negotiating table as a negotiator with the aim of reaching those documents and reaching a coalition agreement. And so what I can't and what I just can't help you in is to dive back into the memory of..................................................................................................................................... That's where it went wrong. So I'm going back to: what is the formation file; what did I say about it on 15 November so I'm standing here on my own behalf and what did I say in the debate on the government statement? I would repeat everything I said there today. And when it comes to the Prime Minister talking about the documents, I think Mr Dijkhoff has said some sensible things about how that should have been done, but it is up to the cabinet to explain where they have said what they have said. Again, I understand the question, but in this complicated situation I try to separate formation and cabinet very consciously by linking my own role to that of negotiator then, because essentially that is what my head is about, and the role of the cabinet to inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u190	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u191	Mr Buma needs a lot of words in order not to answer my question which pieces were new to him and which pieces were recognizable to him. Let me ask you another question. Mr Buma said that Mr Dijkhoff said a number of wise words. Mr Dijkhoff told us, among other things, that in the meantime we had agreed that he thought there was a falsehood told by the Prime Minister, who said he had no memory of a piece that turned out to be there later. Does Mr Buma agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u192	I have no reason to deviate from what Mr Dijkhoff said before, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u193	I think it is very good that Mr Buma is doing it very purely. On 15 November, he was a member of the House of Representatives in a debate on the abolition of the dividend tax. That's where the Prime Minister was defending that measure. And yes, that measure was in the coalition agreement. But that doesn't mean we can't talk about it, because then it gets very shabby here. Then Mr Dijkhoff said: I was not sitting at the main table; I did something with migration and only found out on Friday that a falsehood had been told. Mr. Buma knew. That is a difference with Mr Dijkhoff: Mr Buma knew at that time that there was an untruth told. Mr Buma has a strong memory, has negotiated himself, is proud of that measure and would take it again today. So he knew at the time that the Prime Minister was telling something that wasn't true, either consciously or unconsciously. Why, then, did Mr Buma allegedly not call until Friday and say that these documents should now be made public? What happened to that falsehood, which must have been clear in Mr Buma's head, between 15 November 2017 and 20 April 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u194	This is typical of what I'm really honest about in "an impossible question to answer." I'm listening to what the Prime Minister says. That's up to the Prime Minister. I'm a MP and I'm gonna keep doing the work I'm doing. It is up to the Prime Minister to deal with a question from the Chamber. The Prime Minister stated in the letter why he answered it that way. He'll have to answer for that. I'm just a member of parliament and I'm doing my job here. So these are two different worlds. I have not even had a moment to begin thinking that I have a different task than I have been hired to do since 15 November, namely to stand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u195	But there is one difference between you as a Member of Parliament and me as a Member of Parliament: you knew it was wrong at the time. We had a hunch and asked questions, but you knew it wasn't true. And then you can't say: from another role. You knew it wasn't right. And what is never allowed, whether it is conscious or unconscious, said Dijkhoff too, is an untruth to the parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u196	I understand your question very well, but about things like "you knew it wasn't right" I say quite honestly that there is really a lot that I can only say: it will; I don't know anymore. There's been so much, for seven months, morning, afternoon and evening. As a Chamber, you can say that you do not believe that, but I can only honestly say that a great deal really comes along in the course of that process. There's no other way than for others to negotiate to have it. And it's not that you think during the trial: I have to think about a certain piece, because I might have a debate on it next year, and so I have to archive it in a certain way. If there were another subject coming up, I'd have exactly the same thing. So, again, what is the position I take in the debate? I do not want to contribute to even more fog and uncertainty by saying: you are right; I must have seen that piece but I don't remember. It is true that these things are very common, also in my head, while I am not very forgetful in myself. That is why I find it so difficult in the debate to check with you exactly when what happened in each document. Even take a timeline. There's no timeline. You know that, and so does Mr Klaver. It's a formation. Then we're in a different role, including state law. You ask the right question why I didn't give you a call, but there is no time for me to think that I should do anything other than what I am at the moment: MP and auditor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u197	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u198	My question is: has ever since been discussed in the CDA executive consultation in that coalition, that a request has been made for these documents, documents that have been repeatedly asked for in Parliament, dozens of times? Hasn't that ever been discussed in your presence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u199	This is typically the vulnerable question: has it never been discussed? I know... Really, I can say, I think... The funny thing is, I don't think so. And then I think: yes, but imagine that it happened once or that I had just left. So I am not going to answer him, because, once again, I make the mistake of giving the answer on the basis of what I remember then: it could be. That's as far as I can get. However, that is the nature of the work that we are doing, where part of the work can be and is being recapitulated by means of reporting, by means of stenographic reports. But a lot of the work, and that's how I work, is focusing on the moment you're doing. Something new has to happen every day, so it's not that crazy, I'm just saying about my own memory, that a year later you can't just say: oh yes, that was there and that happened at some point. It is true that I see things or pieces in that formation later and think: indeed, they were there. So that makes me a little more reluctant than "yes, but you have to remember all this." Yes, if we had known afterwards what would happen, there would have been a completely different line chosen. I also think it was Mr Dijkhoff who quite rightly said that. But we're in here. That is our responsibility, but I can't pretend afterwards that I was thinking so well at the time that I thought: I have to remember this from a year ago and find all these pieces together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u200	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u201	Mr. Azarkan. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u202	You say it's not that crazy, but spending 1.4 billion without pieces, as the person standing there says, is kind of crazy, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u203	No, but I think that's a fair question. It's a fair remark. The crazy thing is: in such a formation, there are phrases that I kind of see here, about things that sometimes aren't about money, but have been a moment when such a coalition almost went wrong. Then you'll say, "That"? Yeah, that, because I remember that coalition almost went wrong there. But the dividend tax has not been something that we have been talking about in political terms for a long time and a long time; it has been a business thing. That doesn't make it something that's in my memory today, if you ask. So I'm gonna guess and I don't want to guess. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u204	Yes, Mr President, a very specific question: at what point has Mr Buma not taken note of what documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u205	It almost looks like a trick question. I don't know when I haven't taken notice of any pieces. I don't know if I'm asking you... Perhaps you could specify him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u206	Sure. Have there been any pieces that you have taken to consider whether it is wise to give 1.4 billion taxpayers' money to Shell and Unilever? And at what point did you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u207	Yeah, there's some of that in the file. If you ask which pieces exactly and when, then I'll get into exactly that mistake that brought us here. In the end, as a Member of Parliament, you have to pay me for my judgment, as I do for you. If you ask a question, I do not ask you: who did you all speak to, what did you read and how long ago? There's no way to do that. We are a Member of Parliament who is ultimately politically accountable. If you disagree, you choose something else. So I may and must also come to my opinion politically. This has sometimes been shaped a long time ago, because I speak to people, I hear people, so I want to stay away from your question of what was when, even though I understand it in the context of this debate. This question has been the beginning of the problem. This is not to be done for me as a politician, and for you and for you as well as for you, because fortunately we are getting a lot of information outside officials, outside parts, but very close. That is why I am so reluctant here and why I answered my first question from Mrs Marijnissen in the way I did. The question of which piece was when is not for me. However, it is my responsibility to justify these negotiations as a politician at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u208	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u209	I think this is only my second reaction. I thought we did it in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u210	Go ahead if you want to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u211	Thank you. I just can't imagine it. The coalition partners are coming here to the Chamber. It can be estimated that it is a difficult issue: 1.4 billion dividend taxes net in cash. 45, 50 billion: we give it away every year. We know that the money is badly needed in other places. Then one can expect critical questions from the opposition. I find it so unbelievable, and I ask Mr Buma to what extent he himself considers it credible what all the main players say, and not so much to the opposition's question 'can you remember', because that is not the question. The question is, have there been any pieces? Whether you remember it or not is not so relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u212	That is the question now before us in connection with the debate on 15 November. That's the question about the answer "I can't remember." Your question just now was, what do you base your judgment on? I'll give you that, but I'm not going to share with you on the basis of my memory that I think I've read, heard or seen something. There's a formation file for that. There's pieces in there, and they're part of it. Again, you may address me on the content. I haven't said a word about it in my own right, but that's what I'm going to do and then I'll tell you what I think. Several Members of Parliament have judgments without us knowing exactly why a political party finds anything. GroenLinks has a lot of judgments that I think: if you think about, it is not wise. Nor do I need to know who Mr Klaver has spoken to and when and how. He finds something and I respect it. I also respect what you find, and I'm putting something against it. What is wrong, or rather the risk, is that the formation process is already seen as a kind of government, where the government, the coalition, should inform the Chamber in a way that a prime minister should. This is why I'm so precise. We must, however, be aware, with all due understanding for your questions, that a formation is a completely different stage, including the way in which you act as a Member of Parliament. This creates a lot of pieces at some point. The report is different. At some point, you won't remember. So I think this is more about how you answer that question than it is about what documents do you make public? Because that question has not been properly answered, the documents become public. I think that is inevitable, but the basis in a formation, of which I am truly convinced, even if we do not participate, is still that this is something other than a government that reports and informs the Chamber about decisions taken and about what lies behind them. You'll always keep that. That's why I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u213	I am pleased that Mr Buma joined Mr Dijkhoff when it comes to the duty of the cabinet to inform the Chamber when that information is available. That is why I ask you once again, Mr President, to do the following. I asked about the timeline around the WOB, and when the overview was available to the cabinet, so not to the negotiators. The question I have to Mr Buma is the following. On Friday 20 April at the press conference, Mr Rutte said: I have no memory of that, not to this day. The same applies to my fellow negotiators, and that is not surprising. Just yesterday you said: some memos I did read and some memos I didn't read. Friday there was a conference call with the coalition. My question to you is: has it been agreed that the Prime Minister would say that he had no memory of it, and not the negotiators either?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u214	Not to be faint, but I'm not going along with the question of what I remember or don't remember from a conference call. Apart from this, I'm not gonna talk about confidential conversations. I've actually had no memory of a number of things. Last week I said: I want to see what we have. I was just saying, you see things you think "gosh, I don't remember, but I really saw it and I read it." That's why I'm so careful. When I'm open to the Chamber, I'll say this. No more and no less. It's true that this is so complicated in words, because sometimes I don't have a memory. In the course of this discussion, this has led to: he denies it, because those words have been mixed up. In fact there are pieces and in fact there are undoubtedly pieces that I do not remember because they have been on other tables. Under normal circumstances, in formations, that makes sense. But because of the clumsy start of this discussion, it has all become part of a well-naïve discussion. But I don't want to leave the base. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u215	I am not asking about Mr Buma here, but I am seeking information on the position of the Prime Minister. During the weekly press conference, the Prime Minister said: I have no memories of it. He spoke on behalf of all the main negotiators, while Mr Buma indicated less than two days later that he had read some of the documents and some of them had not. My question is: did Mr Rutte say that with or without consultation with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u216	I have to answer that that was with me. It is not the case that Mr Rutte is going to say something and is going to drag Buma into it. It is, and that's why those days are right, that I went to see what's going on. I don't have a complete file, but I do have, quite simply, a folder in my closet. I want to know at some point what piece I saw and if I've seen it. Then I can't say anymore: I don't remember. But I can tell when I read something that I think is true. But there have been so many other pieces. That's where that difference is true. But afterwards I think again: no memory? Actually, you should have said: right now, I can't answer that instead of reminding you. That word in itself has become a life of its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u217	Let me get this straight: back to that Friday. So at least there has been consultation with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u218	I'm not saying it was that Friday. I'm just saying the Prime Minister could say that on my behalf. You now attach this to what the Prime Minister has said, and again, quite rightly, with my knowledge. At least he knew it was. That doesn't mean I'm saying it was at the time. He was right to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u219	But when did Mr Buma know that those documents were in his possession?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u220	All I did was, I think on Friday, look at what I have left of myself. That's as logical as what, which I'm not a file manager. Then I come to pieces where I think: gosh, it's true. My predecessor didn't want to save everything, but I sometimes keep things. My memory is good, but it's also limited. So after the long formation, I didn't throw everything away right away. I just find that useful, but I'm not an archivist; I don't have a full archive. I think it's nice to say here: I did. The strange thing is that everyone says you have to remember everything. That's not right. That could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u221	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u222	I just want to get away from what the memory was or wasn't and the fact that it was a long time ago. This is just about the beginning of this week. Mr Buma now says that he thinks he saw those pieces on Friday. You can hope that Mr Buma will know when he saw those documents on Friday or Monday, otherwise we may have another problem. If he thinks that was Friday, that's relevant. On the same Friday, the Prime Minister said, on behalf of Mr Buma, that we, the chief negotiators, have no memory of this, whereas those documents were already known to you at the time. That is what you have just said. Well, then the Prime Minister gave me the wrong information, didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u223	This is exactly why, interestingly enough, it's so complicated talking. Mr Rutte answered that question and I am sure that when I told him that, I had not seen those documents. I know, or I wouldn't have said it. Then I can't say, "I don't remember." If you say now: when and how and chicken I have you, then it is not so; it does not work that way. I understand the construction is behind it, but I can't make it any prettier than this. This is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u224	You know, I find that striking. Friday morning there is a publication in Trouw; that afternoon there is consultation in the coalition. Then it's said, "You can say I have no memory of it." When did Mr Buma tell the Prime Minister that he did read those documents after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u225	I'm really not gonna answer this anymore, because I have no idea. There is only one thing I can say: if the Prime Minister says that he has not heard a reminder on my behalf, then the right question is 'because otherwise the Prime Minister will only do what he has checked. Yeah, he checked. Did I read the pieces when I said that? No, because if I hadn't, I wouldn't have said no memory. How the timeline is on days, hours, minutes or seconds, I can't make it so beautiful; you're gonna have to do it with this. There's nothing behind that. You're going to find out a little too much now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u226	Finalizing, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u227	Rounding up. I am glad that Mr Buma himself still believes it. I see Mr. Rutte laughing, so does he. It was Mr Rutte who said at the press conference on Friday that I spoke to the main negotiators this morning; on that basis I can now say that I am speaking on their behalf that we all have no memory of it. Why is that so important, Mr. Buma? Not because I want to know exactly when you knew what. This is about whether we have been properly informed by the Prime Minister. That is why it is important what you shared with the Prime Minister at what time. And that's what I'm asking for. That is what I am asking here as a fellow MEP, because it concerns the provision of information to the Chamber. That's why I'm asking you to dig into your memory, not very deep, because it was a day or four ago. That's why. I find it too easy when you say, "I don't know exactly what happened." This is about providing information to the Chamber. The Prime Minister says: no, the chief negotiators have no memory of this. And less than two days later, you say, "Yes, I've read some of those memos." Who's gonna believe that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u228	The tricky end I find: who believes that anymore? That's not workable. All I can tell you is what's inside of me and the truth. I can't say anything else. Then you can say "I don't believe it," but there's gonna be a moment... There was a fair question. Did the Prime Minister speak to you? Yes. When you told the Prime Minister "I don't have a memory," did you have a secret memory? No. Then you say, "I think there's been a lie." I do not think that is right in a debate that is precisely about the precise presentation; I hope that we all, the colleagues, you and I, and the Prime Minister, want it. I've noticed that that's true. I'm very careful at what hour when something happened. There it went wrong at the start, namely: I don't remember, I don't have it anymore, but it was there. I am doing this extensively because I think it is important that we try to look for that purity in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u229	Mrs Marijnissen, I give you the floor for a brief interruption, because you have already been. It must be something that has not yet been discussed, otherwise it will be a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u230	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I suggest that we give Mr Buma a hand, because he finds it very complicated to remember things and to dig into his memory. He didn't look at the pieces that were sent last night, but I can help him. There was one piece that we could say with a reasonable degree of certainty that he did, even if only because the Prime Minister wrote in an accompanying letter on that piece: I used this document during the negotiations in informal bilateral talks with the negotiators. That was you, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u231	Yes, I was. Turns out I still have that piece of my own. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u232	That's relevant. Then we have at least one piece above the table of which Mr Buma now says: I do remember that, because it turned out that I do. Let that be just the piece that the Prime Minister himself commissioned and which Mr Wiebes had his hand in writing. The question to Mr Buma is: how credible does he find the Prime Minister's intervention in the previous debate, in November, when he said "no, to my best knowledge, I do not have any memories of the dividend tax that would have been discussed there', knowing that he himself has ordered such a piece, that he knows it too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u233	The Prime Minister has to answer for himself. I can tell you, I can't make it any prettier... that I didn't even think about what had been changed with pieces. I was just talking to Mr Klaver about this: I started digging and then that piece came back. That folder's full of files. Again, I'm not an archivist, but I keep things because I think it might come in handy again. Well, now. In the many conversations you have, I can't just say: it was then, that conversation; that's how it happened. The Prime Minister is about his own answer, about the piece and everything he has said about it. This is what I can say on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u234	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u235	Mr Buma is hiding behind "I can't remember" again. I find that unbelievable, but if we believe that, then that is not the question. The question is: how does Mr Buma view a Prime Minister who was asked 23 times in the previous debate about such a piece and then says he has no memory of it? Now it turns out that he himself ordered this and you acknowledge that you knew that piece too. Then why didn't you, for example, put the Prime Minister on his jacket of "gosh, maybe you should rephrase that"? Apparently, you didn't. Then why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u236	Let's separate ourselves from this particular element, because this is from that letter. Mr Klaver also asked me this question on 15 November. I think that was the relevant moment. Not for a moment have I felt a tendency to do anything other than what I am supposed to do as a Member of Parliament: with you in a normal way the Chamber... how should I put it? In a debate, check next time. For me, but then I will give the same answer as I gave to Mr Klaver, and there was no reason to do anything other than in a debate and now here too. Just for the sake of precision, I'm not a cabinet member or anything. I, like you, am just a representative of the people, but with the distinct difference that there is a very long formation period, the aftermath of which leads to this debate. The start of that aftermath is indeed the question of how this debate indicated what was going on with the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u237	Mr Asscher, you too have the point that you really need to be brief and that it should not be a repetition of previous questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u238	Just a popular representative but one of the very best we've got. This question is about short-term memory. Yesterday, the prime minister in this room said, "I didn't find out until Friday morning when I read Trouw." Does Mr Buma think that's true?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u239	You really should ask the Prime Minister himself. I'm not gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u240	Well, the only way it's relevant is if you knew earlier than Friday morning that the Prime Minister was aware of those documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u241	I believe that yesterday the Prime Minister himself answered a question and should therefore also say why he said it. I can't answer that for him. I'm not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u242	Last time. Did Mr Buma know before Friday morning that the Prime Minister had knowledge of documents he should have recognized in November? Has there been any contact before Friday morning in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u243	Is there for Friday...? That's what I'm asking... That's again... I think... We've been in touch on Friday. Well, I wonder this way. Yeah, no really, because I'm gonna... As I said earlier, I have never felt the need to have a different role than I have as CDA group chairman, namely to do my job. So there's no such thing as a really big back-and-back of "what are you saying" or whatever. I'm doing my job. The Prime Minister's doing his job. The construction, which I understand, is not so direct from it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u244	I understand. You just said, "I'm just a representative of the people." We're all here on Tuesday afternoon at Question Time. You heard the Prime Minister say, "I knew it when I read Faithful." He has to answer the questions that have been asked about them, but what did you think? Did you think "well, that might be right" or did you think...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u245	No, you really need to ask the Prime Minister why he... He gave the answer, not me. I'm not going to read out what the Prime Minister should answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u246	That's what you said. I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u247	Mr President, I think the viewers at home are really wondering what is in the tea with us, because a number of speakers seem to have a lot of memory problems. What share has Mr Buma had in making the documents public?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u248	It is a decision of the Cabinet, which applies to me, and I think, for the others as well, that I support it, yes, wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u249	I would like to point out that Mr Buma has no further role to play... Have you discussed with the Prime Minister, with the team? Have you been asked whether that's convenient or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u250	So I will come to the limits of which I say: I am not going to talk about consultation or anything. Because when you talk to each other confidentially, you talk to each other confidentially. Then, in a manner of speaking, you shouldn't answer the phone. If I call you and we discuss something, I'm not gonna tell you what was said an hour later. But the essence of it is that it is a decision of the cabinet to make those documents public, because then you are no longer negotiating party but cabinet. And I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u251	And then I conclude that you're not just a Member of Parliament. You're an excellent MP, but not just any MP. I assume you've been consulted. You can keep all that a secret, but that doesn't make your role any different from what you just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u252	I have a brief question for Mr Buma. I also presented this to the Prime Minister. Of course, those who have formed this cabinet could just decide very carelessly about 1.4 billion a year, with which you could also do other things. I heard Mr Buma say: well, it wasn't really a political clash and I didn't read them very well; we didn't really think it was that important. So that was the choice the CDA made about 1.4 billion a year, which you can also keep nursing homes open and stuff? None of it that important?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u253	What I meant to say is this. I'm trying to be as precise as I can be. Again, one does not have to believe that. In such a formation you have moments that I can reproduce in such a way; I said that before. You can wake me up at night for that. That's because those moments happened to be very "going on or not going on." This has been discussed. I knew at some point what my point of view was, having heard all the information I had. I am about to explain to you why I am still very much in favour of the decisions that have been taken. I don't mean to be faint, but I just want to say that we didn't play quartet. We've looked at what's important on a subject-by-issue basis. If you read the coalition agreement, you will see that we are not talking about dividend taxation in it, but that there is a broad story about the locational climate in which this fits. I'll get to that in a minute. That makes this particular part and in particular the question of what you remember some of when and about which piece and so on, only later became an issue. So I can't get it back with the announcement that I was keeping track at that time: what, who, when, how read. Then I really wouldn't be honest. If I make a decision, I'll make sure it's worn; I know that. Then we have to get it out of my system and move on to another topic. Otherwise, we can't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u254	Yes. I just miss the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u255	Mr President, perhaps it has already resigned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u256	I'm just gonna wait for the Prime Minister to show up. Glad you could make it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u257	You get so much tea and coffee here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u258	Me too. I would have stayed with Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u259	Mr Buma is still trying to explain a little bit that you cannot remember everything and that you must get on with a formation process. I think it's fair that you say you can't remember everything. However, we have to note that this was a decision of 1.4 billion a year, rather controversial. The CDA also has good financial specialists. The Ministry of Finance has been advising against this for years. If we now have to follow Mr Buma's reasoning, it was not such a difficult point and therefore he did not remember very well what was and was not controversial about it and what was discussed. It just didn't matter to the CDA. That's actually what he's trying to put down here as a defense in order not to have to answer all those questions about what he did know and what he didn't see from those memos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u260	You may find that, but that does not do justice to the answer I give and that is about what things you can wake me up for at night, for all I care because it almost fails. It concerns seven months of negotiations that eventually led to something with a single seat majority. That's a lot. The memory here is about which piece, about when you read what and all of that stuff. Asking me about that is a vulnerability to me, because I really don't know exactly what, when and how. I do know that when I make a decision, that's what I do. I want to know that it's true. Otherwise, I won't do it. But we're actually doing something else right now. We don't ask the question, "Do you know what you did?', But "do you remember a year later what you read when and how to come to that decision?" It's hard for me to answer that. I therefore believe that the vulnerability of what has happened, that if we are very honest, it applies to everyone in that formation, and that the way in which the answer has been given, was just not so convenient that we are not standing here. The other way around: that it was so less convenient that we are there. I want to avoid doing the same thing to you by thinking: that piece then, you read it, and so on, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u261	But it just so happens, my question wasn't about that. I was simply referring to Mr Buma's speech, in which I actually heard him say: well, it was just not such a big thing; it was not a political clash. I wanted to repeat that here for a moment, that for the CDA 1.4 billion... There's other things we can do for that. Apparently, in those formation calls, the CDA quickly chose the line of the VVD, I mean, the line of Shell and Unilever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u262	This is so fast jumping to conclusions that I'm not actually going to answer anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u263	I'm gonna try again anyway. This is a question that colleagues have already asked Mr Buma. We have Mr Wiebes' memo. The Prime Minister wrote to the Chamber last night that this memo was there and that he used it for the talks and margin, supposedly informal, with the negotiating partners. What we didn't know, and now we know, thanks to Mr Buma, is that he also distributed that piece. For Mr Buma just said: I have that piece; I found that piece. So this is a piece that has been distributed, I assume not only to Mr Buma but also to the other three negotiating partners. Then I wonder how credible it is, Mr. Buma. We spent about a few hours here last November grilling the Prime Minister and all of us, not you, but the opposition, all of us, about whether there was a piece left. The Prime Minister said, no, there is no other piece. But there is another piece. And now we also hear that you had that piece. If the Prime Minister only had it in mind and used it to negotiate with you... But He gave it to you; He gave it to you. And you had that piece. Then you should have said straight away, "Mark, dear friend, you speak a falsehood; you have distributed that piece to us, we had it"? And if you didn't do that the same day, the day of the debate, you should have done it one or two days after that. Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u264	The answer to that question goes back to what I just said. The question was, do you really remember anything? I went to see for myself last weekend, if I had anything else. It's no different. That is the reality. Why? Because, again, archiving and such is not my job. I keep things. But on 15 November, when the debate was over, I didn't have a moment in my head to do my own research on what I have and to call the Prime Minister. No, I'm not. I can't make it any better either, because this is reality. Then you can say "other way back." Well, you know, then you have to say "yes, different afterwards." And at the same time, I know that it hasn't been in my system for a moment. I can't make it any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u265	Madam President, why is this unbelievable? This is unbelievable because it's not about just any piece. If the piece were on the fight against congestion or on immigration policy, I can still imagine it. But this was a piece that we debated here in the Chamber almost a whole day, and Mr Rutte, with suspension and all, said at one point: I have no other piece; there is no other memo on dividend taxation. Now we know that it was a lie, or an untruth to speak with Mr Dijkhoff. Then you're gonna think after a debate like this, "Oh, for Christ's sake, isn't what the Prime Minister said true? Didn't he hand out a piece showing that there was another piece? It's not just a piece. It's a piece we've been debating for a day. Then you can't say: yes, I don't remember and I can't remember all that? That's what you're looking into, isn't it? Or didn't you want to know? Didn't you want to know if there was another piece? Didn't you find out whether or not the Prime Minister was telling the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u266	You're jumping to another conclusion that just doesn't add up. I keep saying that the attempt in this debate is to say exactly what is going on. Do you remember that question? I thought, "Look, there's gonna be a play." Again, I'm not the archivist or anything. I'm doing my job, putting it in the past now. Again, that is the complicated part of the whole debate. You also negotiated for seven weeks. I am convinced that this has been done in a similar way. So you can tell me that I have to know all these pieces and keep track of them, but that's how I work. Like I said, you have to make those decisions; you motivate them and then you go to the next. That's my job. I'm not the cabinet, I'm not the principal or anything like that. I'm just doing my job. I'll do it this way. You talk about credibility and such. That's the hard part. I hope that what I am doing and saying here will help to reduce the accuracy of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u267	Once again, Mr Buma has said a great deal. Indeed, he is not the cabinet, he is not the principal and he is not an archivist. I know after seven weeks of negotiation, you don't know all the pieces. But I also know that if, for example, we had a debate here after the Catshuis, the Prime Minister had been grilled and a motion of distrust was thrown into his pants, I would have thought for a moment: "What the hell, what the hell, did I have that piece?" You had that piece. You got it from him, we grilled it here and you say, well, I'm not an archivist. Well, I don't believe you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u268	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u269	Mr. Chairman. I will go on to the content of the subject. Two million people in our country depend on internationally operating companies for their jobs. International companies therefore make an important contribution to our economy, but that is a fragile asset. The Netherlands must stand in a rapidly changing world. That makes demands on our locational climate. To this end, we are taking measures that will benefit our jobs and our long-term prosperity. Companies that are an addition to our real economy we would like to have in this country. Companies that only choose our country as a transit country for money, we don't need it. That is why the choice has been made: we abolish the dividend tax, but at the same time we introduce a number of taxes. What I am missing in the debate is the assessment we have made of the locational climate. The introduction of a withholding tax on interest and royalties is opposed to this tax. Reducing tax breaks for expats is opposed to this tax. The adjustment of interest for tax reasons is contrary to this tax. So, all those who say "the dividend tax" forget that this whole discussion is going to come back to the formation and to the question what's in your system was in a much broader context about locational climate. That also means that a year later, the debate on this part is not just a debate which I say immediately: I still have everything on hand. The greatest burden reduction introduced by this cabinet is a social flat tax for citizens, for individuals. So the abolition of the dividend tax is a sensible choice, an important part of a broader package of measures that this coalition wants to give the Netherlands a strong position for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u270	Mr Azarkan, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u271	What does Mr Buma think about the fact that it says in the documents that it has an impact not to be measured on the location climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u272	On the other hand, Economic Affairs says it is very important, although it is not one-on-one. I think that in the declaration of government on 15 November I wanted to get rid of it for a while; it was stated in one of those debates that it is an estimate we are making for an investment. We did this after a summer of threatening takeover by a foreign company of Unilever. Everyone was on their back legs. It was also about Akzo. It was about international companies, so it's on the retina. After taking that decision, Unilever is also present in the Netherlands, but not only in the Netherlands. You can paint the picture that it's all for the big bucks, but 2 million Dutch people make their money at internationally operating companies. So I thought it was a very important measure, once again, in the face of the fact that you, too, are forgetting that, once again, there are a number of measures for companies that we do not need very well. These are companies, in particular, as letterbox companies, which we are going to tax. So it's not a measure. It wasn't discussed that way either. It's a component. I am really convinced that this is why it is perhaps less a sensitive issue for me to say that this is a good thing. Not you. Well, we have that debate and we're going to talk about it again when it comes to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u273	Mr. Buma came up with substantive arguments. If he had taken the pieces, he had deliberately not chosen to do so, he would have read a lot of criticism of the assumptions he himself makes. I think that once and for all we must eliminate here that the opposition does not seem to think it is important that there are jobs here, because it is very important. This isn't about the $2 million that Hans de Boer brought up last night. We are talking about what that 1.4 billion extra is doing in relation to all the elements that determine that the Netherlands already has a great locational environment and to what extent that can be justified by the taxpayer. That's the assignment you have, too. You say: I do not take those pieces to myself, because there are things in them, or else I will be completely confused in my different roles. If you had read them, I would say to Mr Buma through the President, you would have seen that the justification for this is very poor. This is independent of the fact that we must act as a country against tax avoidance. It's completely unrelated to that. Good thing we do!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u274	I'm hesitant with my answer. The awareness of me not to start reading now after all the pieces should be... Now I don't get that package with the question to make a decision, but with the question: what did you know when and match that with your memory? It's based on the systems. In my system, that's what I just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u275	Yeah, that's gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u276	The question is being asked. I'm not saying it for the first time, but the question is asked. I've always made my decisions very carefully. So the only thing that's so difficult is to go back and tell me which piece, what, when was read. Only you have a different opinion. The only thing I'm telling you is that you weren't angry when a company like Unilever stayed. The English were very angry when it went there. It is undoubtedly not one-on-one, but I do feel that the measure we are taking lays the foundations for a lot of companies that we would rather have them turn the buttons here than abroad. Then it's an assessment. So you do that with very big words, which would not be mine. The difference in assessment is again: the law still comes to whether this is a sensible measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u277	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u278	Now I'm really breaking my nugget. What I believe we have done here is to ask you, the Prime Minister and your colleagues to demonstrate why this is a good decision. We've seen all kinds of arguments come along: I believe in it, it's a melon to swallow, I can't remember on what basis. All I ask is whether you can come up with documents made by people we can trust, which shows that this is a good measure. So we have actually said: convince us now! We did not go ahead with this dividend tax. You couldn't convince us. Now there are documents that talk about this and you say, from your point of view: well, I don't even take them to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u279	I find it so difficult to debate when you try so little to listen to what I am trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u280	I don't know who's calling all kinds of things here. There is absolutely no intention of expressing your disapproval from the public gallery in all manner of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u281	Because the decision that has been taken has indeed been made on the basis of more than those documents. I just indicated that and Mr Azarkan only listens to half of it. I've been working visits and conversations as a politician for years. It's not like I'm born at the start of coalition negotiations. I have just said that a politician may be required to do more than read official documents. The bizarre thing is that if we read only official documents, we have to abolish ourselves, because then we will no longer be making decisions that are political choices. I called it an assessment. Mr Azarkan would not have done it. That's what we're having the debate on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u282	I'll see you guys back on your feet. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u283	Mr Buma said just now in his speech, 'I therefore insisted that Economic Affairs thought it was a good idea'. How does he know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u284	Because that was one of the things I saw.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u285	But you didn't read them back after Friday, so you have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u286	I have to say, and that makes it so complicated again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u287	This looks like the beginning of a memory. That's the good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u288	No, I don't think it's right for you to do that. Again, I'm trying to say that as precisely as possible. I can also say that I do remember, but then I would say something that isn't true. That's so annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u289	You claim here...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u290	No, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u291	...that Economic Affairs thinks it's a good idea, so I'm asking how you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u292	Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u293	I can't make it prettier. What kind of question is that? I get it, but I've got that in my head and I know it is. And now I have to say again when and where I've read it. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u294	That's not what I'm asking. I don't want to know when you read that. You say here at some point: I do not read the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u295	You're making it harder than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u296	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Excuse me for a second. Mr. Asscher, no one understands you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u297	I keep saying what I said. You can put that on it: Buma doesn't read his pieces. What I don't do is go through the whole story again this week and match that with when I've read some and how and which piece I do and which part I don't. Your question was correct: what do you base yourself on? What's going on in your head? Economics found A, Finance found B. When, how, where: that has been in that formation. I've been talking to people, too. Maybe it's been a conversation. It's possible. I can't make it any better today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u298	One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u299	I can't put it any more accurately either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u300	No, one last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u301	It was quite precise, because you were blamed for the fact that Finance thought it was a bad plan and then you said: no, Economic Affairs thought it was a good plan. That is exactly what we read in the memos, and it is precisely why we ask you that, when the Prime Minister spoke a falsehood, you could have known and perhaps knew that was not true, or that at least that memory could have come back in some form. That's why it's relevant that you just said that. That says something, not only about the credibility of the Prime Minister, but also about Mr Buma's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u302	I find it almost difficult to answer that. As long as you say it often enough, you're gonna believe it, when I think we have the task of answering questions exactly until the moment... and again, there it went wrong... that you don't really know and you're going to answer wrong. That's what I'd like to avoid, including to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u303	You've said this a few times. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u304	You can blame me for answering...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u305	No, I don't blame you, but I blame those who repeat the same questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u306	I'll give the same answer because I don't want to leave it unspoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u307	No, it's not in your direction, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u308	On the basis of the content, we are getting to know more and more about which documents Mr Buma has taken note of and which have not. We now know that he knows the piece of the VVD that has been discussed with the negotiators and he also knows that of Economic Affairs. If he had perhaps even bothered to prepare this debate today and to take note of the documents that we have at least now finally received, he could have seen that there is also a part of the staff of the Treasury. They clearly question the abolition of the dividend tax. I'll name them. It leads to a higher tax burden for domestic taxpayers. It means the bacon of foreign state cheese. It increases the chance that the Netherlands will be used as a transit country for international constructions. Does Mr Buma have any reminder that such arguments have been passed on to the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u309	Again, this is... So here I have to say again... I mean, this is in newspapers, all those sentences. I can't literally imagine it was there at the time. It's been a while. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's So your question, frankly, can you remember? When I read it, it's true. Why it's relevant is not because of who remembers what when, but because of what you do with that information. That's what I'm saying, and that's what I just said, that it's not that I'm just taking an official piece as a basis, because there's more. There's a lot more. In doing so, we are also taking countermeasures, such as tackling a withholding tax on letterbox companies. That's what I just reported. You're forgetting too much too much. So it has not been a measure for a second, but part of a set of locational environments. That was the negotiation. It understandably focuses on the dividend tax, but in my negotiating world it was part of a larger package. So that makes the questions that make so much sense to you now, to me, if I project them to then, just less obvious. I get them, but I don't remember them from back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u310	Whatever I ask, and I am very surprised at that, is that Mr Buma said that on this point, the abolition of the dividend tax, 1.4 billion a year, I would like to mention once again that it is not very well-balanced. About those words he used. Mr. Buma, isn't that impossible if you knew these notes? And that's what we're assuming for a while now, because more and more notes seem to be known here and there. You knew the notes and you know these objections. You have promised the whole election campaign, for example, to reduce the risk by €100. In the end, it all didn't succeed in getting that out of the formation. This did succeed, a 1.4 billion gift to the multinationals, while there are such serious objections. Mr Buma, how is it possible that there has not been any discussion about this at all, I wonder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u311	I still think that... I also ask Mrs Marijnissen, no matter how right her questions are. I'm trying to answer as accurately as I can. The word "clash" is something other than what I meant. I meant that in my system, apart from others. Of course there were differences of opinion. I did this in substance. We came to a decision. But I think the question was, rather in the debate: how can you forget about things around here? Then I said, and you really have to listen to me. That sounds so stupid, but you have to hear what I'm saying. There have been parts in the cabinet formation that may have been about smaller things, but those politics at that time were so big that I can still project the sentence. So that has nothing to do with 1.4 billion or with how big this is, because I see that discussion, but with how such a formation works. You ask, why don't you remember? What I meant to say at the time and also to stand still is that it is not rational to remember things that are very specific but small, and that so this great decision is right to say: 1.4 billion... is not something that I remember all the pieces, when and how, and phrases. While it may be possible for me to remember small parts. That can only be explained by the political movement that was there at some point. That's the most precise answer I can give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u312	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u313	Yes, very briefly. I actually heard Mr Buma say earlier that this was not a subject that has been called very hard. Then I wonder, Mr Buma. There are two possible scenarios. Or you didn't see any of those notes from the Treasury. You are not prepared to check that list, which you have all seen or not, because you did not want to prepare yourself for this debate in this way. So either you didn't see those notes and just the note of Mr Wiebes' hand, for example. Then I can imagine there wasn't any hard talk about it, because that was quite a hosanna story. Either you have seen these notes, with those fundamental objections of the officials of the Treasury, and then I really do not understand how they could not have been called into question. So which one is it, Mr. Buma?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u314	It is still a third: you read back what you want to hear and do not take the answer to you in full. This is not about a discussion that has been on this issue or a difference of opinion, but about my own position in this. I can't make it prettier. I'm sorry, too. I really think we are trying to have a debate here, and you are doing so, and others are doing so, in which there is a need to clarify the matter. That's limited, that more clarification. That's obvious, too. Because I, too, have my limits. But we do it in a way that we try to answer as accurately as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u315	I can quite easily follow Mr Buma on this point when he says: "We are not just looking at official memos. There are lots of parties. They have plans that they think are very important. And sometimes there are all kinds of reports that are written about it. And that conflicts with each other. Yet you choose something for a political reason." That is Mr Buma's position. I can imagine. But why are we having this debate? That is because the abolition of the dividend tax was not included in anyone's electoral programme. If it's really so important to the Netherlands... I have never heard any of the parties talk about this. That's why we're talking about this. That's why we wanted those memos. We say, "Wait a minute, if you're going to spend 1.4 billion on abolishing such a tax, there's got to be some arguments underneath that. A lot of notes have come up. One of those notes on the dividend tax specifically concerns the risk that Shell and Unilever will leave the Netherlands. It even says specifically about Unilever: "If Unilever opts for the UK, this will in all likelihood be with a Dutch NV with a factual leadership in the UK. In the imaging can then be indicated that no one is a loser. Unilever remains bound by both the UK and NL." So in one and the same memo it says: we can't guarantee that they'll stay here, but even if they leave, they just stay connected to the Netherlands. What risk do you intend to mitigate in relation to these companies? That's your last line of defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u316	I'll be quiet for a second. This is exactly the debate we had on 15 November. Actually, nothing has changed on that part. Then you also said something like: how can it be, because it's not about much? Then I replied: this is about much more, because it is strategic. That's why I said it's an assessment. You can't see the results tomorrow. I do know for myself, not for you, that I would have found it totally irresponsible if I did anything else. That's just what we disagree about. I can't bring that any closer either. But I do know that the assessment we made is still there. In essence, it is not about the chiefs of that company but about the many people in the Netherlands who depend on a structure in which such companies not only play a role but are also run from the Netherlands. That is my thinking on this point. You have another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u317	This is what I meant in my contribution by "believers." The note, the memo I quoted, is about the most positive about abolishing the dividend tax. And even in that memo it is stated: first of all we cannot guarantee it and secondly, a possible departure from Unilever will not actually have such a great impact. So my question to Mr Buma is: what finally convinced him? That's still the weird part. That's why we're asking for that. It just seems, and I resent that, as if this was the great desire of the VVD to spend money in the formation and has been given it by you and the other parties and that you have simply not looked at it critically enough. If that's the case, be honest about it. But I think it is a shame, because with EUR 1.4 billion, you can also help 15,000 people in care and solve all the waiting lists in youth care. That's a much better investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u318	Not to be silly: if that was the most important question, it would have asked, because I can give the answer in this way. I think this is very important. So I'm not gonna say, as I hear everywhere: the VVD wanted that and started chasing with a piece. I have my own information position. I think so. So you can deal with me on that, and you do. But within the limits of what's happening, I can't be more motivated than I am to do this. And I keep saying: within a whole package of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u319	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u320	Madam President. On 15 November we had a debate on the decision to abolish the dividend tax. During that debate, in response to a question by Mr Roemer, I said that I could honestly say with my hand on my heart that I do not remember such a memo. It is possible that there has been a lot of memos, I said, but I honestly do not know. End of quote. In other words, I did not rule out that there were official memos, but I do not remember that they were on the negotiating table. As it turns out, Mr President, and I was able to check it on the basis of the letter sent by the cabinet last night, for which I thank you, my memory was adequate. Indeed, I have not seen any official memos for the purposes of the negotiations. Meanwhile, of course, I see very clearly what is happening these days and what the image is. There were memos and some negotiators have seen some pieces. There's a VVD note that was also discussed with me. That gives the impression that something has been withheld and withheld. And that calls for reflection, including on my role. I should have made a better and clearer distinction between the public formation dossier, which is open to everyone, which has been made available to the Chamber, in which everyone can go into it, and the closed part of the negotiations in which hundreds of memos go around that I really haven't read all of them. There is a closed section where side tables deal with issues, text proposals on asylum policy and climate policy, which I have not seen all of them, and there is a main table on which the major political buttons are cut. My memory of that private part was and is irrelevant. So I shouldn't have brought that up either. I am approachable to the public formation dossier and, above all, I am open to the political choices made by my group and I in the coalition agreement. That is what the debate should be about and not about my memories. Since the question of whether there were memos remained above the market in the meantime, it is good that the cabinet has exceptionally decided to release everything that could be found in notes and memos, although this is not strictly necessary and is normally undesirable. Because if everything about a formation has to be made public, free thought formation and the search for compromises is impossible, there will never be negotiations again and this country cannot be governed. The question I would like to put to the Prime Minister is whether he can give us another indication of what should be part of that formation dossier and what should not. Can he give his reflection at that point? One...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u321	I suggest you finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u322	I'm going to a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u323	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u324	A fellow party member of Mr Segers called that dividend tax a melon to swallow. Does Mr Segers often swallow melons without looking at their effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u325	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u326	Can he then say here because he has done so with his hand on his heart rather than read anything but Wiebes' VVD memo?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u327	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u328	Now that he's reflecting on his own role, does he think he's well prepared for the discussion about dividend taxation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u329	Yes, because all the pros and cons you have heard the arguments for it from colleagues Dijkhoff and Buma and you have read them in the note that is in the note have been in the discussion. So we've had lively and intense discussions. They have come back several times and there the arguments have been exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u330	Does this mean that you actually consider the falsehood which the Prime Minister told in the debate on 15 November to be legitimate to this day?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u331	If I remember correctly, and now I'm talking about my memories again, the Prime Minister spoke about his memories, as I spoke about my memories, which I just said I shouldn't have brought up because it's irrelevant what you remember and what you don't remember. I am approachable to political choices and you are asking me about them now. How do you make such a choice? You can also ask me about this, and you can rely on public information available in the file. You're gonna have to call me on that. He said something about what the Prime Minister remembers. I said something about my memories. But that's not really relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u332	It is relevant, because the Prime Minister has a different position from that of Mr Segers and I, in the debate in November and today. Indeed, if there is a specific request for information and the Prime Minister gives an answer that does not appear to be correct, it is relevant to state law. Mr Segers agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u333	I gave about the same answer, which is that I couldn't remember. I didn't rule out those memos being there, but I couldn't remember them. And when I look at the list, I didn't see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u334	Then I go to Mr Azarkan, or no, Mr Klaver, who was a little far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u335	A melon had to be swallowed. If you have to do that after a decision that you don't really want to make, I can imagine you're completely into all the ins and outs of such a subject. Mr Segers says: I did. There was a memo from the VVD, in which all pros and cons were discussed. I imagine he thought that at the time, at the formation table. But we have all the memos now. I don't know if you've read them; I've read them. I also put memo eleven of Mr Wiebes and memo one side by side. Then you can see very big differences. Then you will see that Mr Wiebes' memo says that there is erosion of the yield, while the note from the Treasury says that the yields are volatile but are not under pressure. It says in the Treasury report that it will be mainly foreign tax authorities. It also states in one note that the location climate does not play a role, in the other state it does. In particular, if you had known that point of the foreign tax authorities' bacon during the formation, would you have agreed to swallow that melon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u336	If you look very carefully in the report of the journalist who has walked with us, you may even find more brilliant quotes. These objections were not unknown to our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u337	Where did these objections come from? Because they weren't in this note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u338	They came from ourselves. We have mixed feelings about it. We had a discussion about it. We discussed it at the table. We've weighed pros and cons. We have put together a broader package on the location climate. This is once again in the broader context of a coalition agreement, to which I have said yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u339	Now you can also see that it came not only from yourself, but that the Secretary of State, who spoke about it, also had information on it. That information went a whole different way. If I had been in your shoes, I would have wanted that information. I would have been stronger in the discussion at the negotiating table. Then maybe you didn't have to swallow that melon. That would have been better for the Netherlands, because we would not have thrown 1.4 billion over the beam. But you say you didn't have this information. Wouldn't you have just wanted it, Mr Segers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u340	But in all seriousness. Look at the debate over the last few years. Look at the information available, at the professors who spoke about it, at SOMO who spoke about it and at the debate that took place here in the Chamber. Has Mr Klaver found new information in the notes he has not heard before? Has he heard arguments that were completely new and came out of the sky, which he says: how happy am I to know now, because now I know even better why I am against? Is that really the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u341	Yes, because it shows even more precisely why it has no effect on the locational environment and that it is so large a drain to foreign tax administrations. If several memos circulate on this subject but I only get the memo that contains objections but which is most positive, then I would feel fooled if I was a negotiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u342	I said there were different memos in different places, so they were shared with different people. I have mentioned my memory, which appears to be adequate, and I refer to a discussion that took place at the table. I think that this discussion was ripe and that all the pros and cons were weighed up in the whole package of the coalition agreement. That is how we made the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u343	I heard something about a confession, though that's more Catholic stuff. However, back to the moment your colleague, Mrs Schouten, qualified it as a melon to swallow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u344	It was Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u345	It was your quote, Mr Segers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u346	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u347	Which one of you thought it was a melon to swallow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u348	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u349	You still have four chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u350	I think it was then Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u351	No, no, no, no, no, no, We thought Mr Bruins was really famous now, with his melon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u352	You've missed that, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u353	How could I forget him? Based on what did Mr. Bruins think it was a melon to swallow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u354	That it was a major measure and that it was also a counter-measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u355	No, I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u356	Where do you want to go, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u357	I know Mr Bruins well. Mr Bruins knows a lot about finance, and Mr Bruins knows that an investment, whether it is 100 billion or 5 billion, is about revenue, about return on investment. So the amount in itself doesn't matter. I would like to ask Mr Segers: on what basis did Mr Bruins think that was a melon to swallow? You say: when I looked at Mr Wiebes' memo, I thought it was a balanced measure, I saw the pros and cons and it was me... I thought it was good to do so. But I think Mr Bruins had those other pieces that were much more critical. Explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u358	No, no, no. I said that I thought the decision-making process was right at the table, namely that we have weighed all the pros and cons there in a wider context of the locational climate and in an even greater context of a government agreement. And that there are elements in it... In the debate on 15 November, I compared it to a U2 album. I buy the whole album, but not all songs are equally fantastic. So there's ripe and green in between, but I'll buy the whole album. That is the way it is with the coalition agreement. I signed it, the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u359	Well, that was wrong in my memory. I conclude that you do not say: I have the memo...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u360	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u361	Mr Segers read Mr Wiebes' memo, which Mr Rutte had taken under his arm. There was another presentation that was given. You say: nevertheless, I didn't think it was a well-balanced story, but I accepted it in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u362	I thought it was a balanced choice. We have really had a look at the advantages and disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u363	For a little while, though. Let me put it this way: did you agree with the decision to take the 1.4 billion on the basis of that information... Did you agree to that, or would you rather not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u364	I'm here with a signature under the coalition agreement that says so, aren't I? So I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u365	Fortunately, we know the Christian Union as a party that has always been very critical of the abolition of dividend taxation. They called it development cooperation for American and British governments. I liked that. My question is about... Look, I can follow Mr Segers when he says: I just shouldn't have brought up those memos, but I had no memory of it. It turned out to be true. I am looking for the answer to the question of what Mr Segers' second in those negotiations, Mrs Schouten, now Minister of Agriculture, then Finance spokesperson, or not. I agree with Mr Segers when he says that perhaps we should not have done so. But now that discussion is about that. Did she even see those notes from the Treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u366	On Friday she said something about this together with her colleague Koolmees. That was about the legal risks. She said: "Yes, we have seen them." I didn't see it. I asked her about that and I must say that her self-review was a bit more critical than my review of her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u367	I'm asking because I'm also looking for the Rutte effect, in a negative sense, unfortunately. After all, we often see the Prime Minister picking handy words and saying that he doesn't remember something if he doesn't want to say that he doesn't want to answer someone's question. I would sincerely be very sorry if the effect of the Rutte was that Christian Union leaders and Christian Union group chairmen also felt that this was a way of talking to the Chamber and other partners. So I am really looking for the question: did Minister Schouten now tell the complete truth or did she have to give a bit of a hand in her explanation at Rutte's instruction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u368	You make it very personal and you don't make it very pleasant, I must say. This is so on the man, so "you really must be very factual, did she tell the truth, yes or no?" On Friday, together with Wouter Koolmees, she said what they said. They've been telling the truth. We assume people are telling the truth, unless it turns out otherwise. People can make mistakes, too. They could have the wrong memories. That is why we have this debate. Unfortunately, they can talk about memories that they shouldn't have talked about. That's why I'm here now. Those are all human mistakes. You really need to make it less personal. If you ask me if she's spoken the truth, I'll say yes. We looked back at it, like, "Oh, how exactly did that go?" Once again: in a context where hundreds of memos fly over your mail and really bake there with information going back and forth, the political big buttons come on the main table. Indeed, information comes on side tables, not only from her, for example, but sometimes from a member of the political group or from support; we are well prepared for such a negotiation. At the main table, cut your buttons. That's really what the big questions are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u369	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u370	Mr Segers is in favour of it, and rightly so. Unfortunately, however, that is the danger of this cabinet. That's why I'm asking, even though it's unpleasant and uncomfortable. If the way the Prime Minister is used to meeting the Chamber and journalists, even to parties like the Christian Union, I am concerned about that. I can imagine that it is uncomfortable, but I would like to ask the question: was Mr Segers' second-in-command during the negotiations on those notes from the Treasury or was she talking about Wiebes' memo? That is not really clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u371	I leave the whole run-up for a while; I have said what I have said. She talked about the legal implications. She looked into it. She didn't mention the VVD note, if that's what you're referring to. Before that the first negotiator of the VVD came to my house, as with other colleagues. That was in the context of the search for a compromise and the attribution of texts for a coalition agreement. That really is of a different nature than an official memo in which information is provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u372	I hear Mr Segers say that he has considered both the benefits and the disadvantages and then, on the basis of Mr Wiebes' memo, finally came to a conclusion. That's a memo that only has the benefits in it. Hence my question: have you been able to form your opinion on the presentation given by officials? Were there any negative judgments in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u373	There has been a briefing by officials. They have provided information that we have of course used. But the information is provided from many other sides, including from outside. We have therefore based our opinion not only on one note, one proposal from one of the negotiating parties, but on a multitude of arguments, pros and cons. We have based our choice on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u374	Do I hear you say that the presentation given by the officials was indeed taken into account by you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u375	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u376	Proceed, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u377	I would like to say a few words about the content of the decision. In the discussions we held in complete secrecy about the location climate, many topics came along. I mentioned them just now: reducing the tax on profits for large and smaller companies, tackling letterbox companies, and maintaining the European's strictest bonus policy for financial institutions. It is no secret that this was a decision that was not just a matter of course. I would also mention tackling tax avoidance and creating an attractive location environment for companies with added value for our economy. Charge relief also involved the relationship between burden relief for citizens and business, with more burden relief for citizens, and especially for middle-class families, than for businesses. There has been a lively debate in the discussions on the location climate and the reduction of charges. There have been arguments from all sides. Our views differed, but we sought and found a compromise. In all honesty, we did not need a memo as a group to know all the advantages and disadvantages of abolishing the dividend tax and to determine our position on this. Yes, they were known. Madam President. The Christian Union Group has finally weighed up the whole of the measures that benefit citizens and businesses. We have considered the whole of all agreements to be weighted and good enough, and I have signed a government agreement. I have done so with complete conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u378	Let's get back to the memo. You just said that you read Mr Wiebes's piece, the VVD piece to name it. I assume you got it, too. But when that was discussed at the table, did you have that other piece of finance, that note that was a little more critical, too? Did you see them both or did you only have one of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u379	The note of the VVD fraction has not been discussed at the main table. The first negotiator went to the group chairmen and talked about it bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u380	So you got the play, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u381	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u382	Then I have the same question I asked Mr Buma. You were here during the debate in November. You heard the Prime Minister was questioned, I mentioned the word "grilled" about the note. He said, no, there aren't. After all, that doesn't add up. So you, too, got that piece back then. Why didn't you think, "Oh, my gosh, did I have that piece?" And: I've had that piece, because that's what you're saying now, so I should actually tell the Prime Minister. My second question, which is linked to it: did anyone else, the second negotiator, the financial negotiator of your party, have that piece too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u383	She did look into it because I had it and we discussed it together. I welcome the first question you asked, because it gives me the opportunity to make it quite clear once again what the difference between memo and the VVD's group note comes from. I went back to the debate on 15 November. Where did the question about the memos come from? That was an interruption debate between Mr Klaver and Mr Pechtold. I've got it right here. Mr Klaver then says: my point is that I cannot believe that no memos have been written by the Ministry or by advisors dealing with the dividend tax. So he's talking about memos written by the ministry and counselors. That was the context of the discussion; that came up every time. That is how I have listened to this question and I have tried to answer it, as I know it. The VVD fraction note is of a different order. That was the allocation to a compromise, making a proposal. This included the approach of letterbox companies. It was the attribution to a text for the coalition agreement. Yes, there are more trials of texts written for the coalition agreement that I don't call a memo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u384	The note was anything but a VVD group note, as Mr Segers said. The note was written by the then Secretary of State for Finance. Not by the group, but by the Secretary of State for Finance. The Prime Minister wrote in his letter last night that the Secretary of State also used information from the department to get that note. How do you get to a group note? It was an official piece and it was no longer a party piece, because the Secretary of State wrote it and he had used information from the department. Now you stand here in November and you don't hear the Prime Minister telling the truth about being other memos. Now you don't only know that, but so does your second. You both know there's another piece. Then why don't you both go to the Prime Minister and say there was a piece? Or: there was another piece; you didn't tell the truth, Mark, and we're not going along with it. Why don't you tell me? I really don't understand any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u385	What I don't understand is that if there were a PVV group note based on information from a ministry, it would immediately be a memo from an official. It's not that. It is a view of a political group, of a party. This was an input from one of the four negotiating groups in a debate that we have held several times, and an attempt to reach a compromise in which things were weighed up. That's how I understood that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u386	I always like to be quoted, but it's okay. It is precisely when it comes to the wording that I have chosen in my contribution to the debate on 15 November that I have been very careful, because I knew that there would be another debate in which people would return to my words. In my contribution I have literally indicated: have there been opinions delivered at the formation table or at side tables on the dividend tax of officials, outgoing directors, counsellors or other organisations, memos that deal with the dividend tax? Why weren't these shared with the room? I've made it as wide as I can. "Other organisations" include political groups. So I asked that question as widely as possible. Then there was a loud saying: "No, there are none." That was the Prime Minister's answer. Turns out there are 29 pieces after all. Then the question to Mr Segers is: what is your political response to the fact that the Prime Minister said 'no, there are no'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u387	He has said again, for that I have to dig in my memory, I do not remember. So it went back to that memory. I said that, and I used those words myself: you better not do that. Then it's only relevant if it's in the formation file. Yes or no? Do you have a balanced judgment? Yes or no? Behind that is a mess of memos and views that really go back and forth. We have also laid this down once again in the Open Government Act, the initiative law of GroenLinks and D66. I have established that we must keep those memos, that information from officials to negotiating parties and to MPs, really safe. I was an opposition party at the time, but for the negotiations and the freedom to come to an exchange of views and to protect them, I thought it was important to table an amendment and that amendment was adopted. The law is pending, but this was exactly my point. You have to be able to make these kinds of considerations in safety. What's public is public. That's what you're arguing about. It is a choice whether or not to abolish the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u388	The point is that these memos are denied. When a WOB procedure came to light, that was how it turned out that those documents were there. That's why the Chamber has been misinformed. If you say 'they are not there' and the documents prove to be there thanks to a WOB procedure, then I can only conclude that the truth has not been spoken at the time. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u389	It is indeed not the truth, because the truth is that there were notes, memos. That's exactly an illustration of why you shouldn't dig in your memory, why you should keep it as factually as possible, why you should keep it as pure as possible. What you can appeal to me on is a political choice. You can ask me again: how do you get that political choice, in what context did that happen? I can explain all that. Remember? What did and didn't lie on the table? Hundreds of memos. I just shouldn't have done that. The Prime Minister must speak for himself. He must pass his own judgment on his own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u390	I would actually suggest that Mr Segers finish his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u391	The crucial point in my interruption is yet to come. This is about the political assessment of this action by the Prime Minister. He says those memos aren't there. It doesn't appear to be one, it doesn't appear to be two, but it concerns 60 pages, which are now made public. As you say, he didn't speak the truth about it. Next, a WOB procedure in the cabinet announces that they are there. And it's not being shared with the Chamber at that time that they're even there. That's a weird thing to do, isn't it? Then the room is misinformed, isn't it? Then I hope you stand next to us and say: this has just been wrong? What is your political assessment of what the Prime Minister has done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u392	I'm projecting the question on myself. I've been asked, are there any memos? Then I said, to my best knowledge, I don't remember. Again, I shouldn't have done that, but I did. It's about my memory. Similarly, the Prime Minister said: I should have actually kept it. If you then ask for a political judgment, I would say: I could have done better, I could have said better, I should have put it better. If we had not been here, we would not have had this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u393	I appreciate your openness, but there is a difference between your position as group chairman and Mr Rutte's position as Prime Minister. In the movement between cabinet and parliament, trust is the most important thing. We need to be able to trust that the truth is always spoken from Box K. If it turns out that what he said at the time wasn't true, then it's possible. But if the government is aware that these documents are in fact there, then the Chamber should have been informed. I'm not asking you to involve it in yourself, but I'm asking you for a political judgment. I think it's good of you to say that I should have done all that differently. That is good, but this is also about the debate with the government. You're part of that coalition. Surely it cannot be that the Prime Minister did not inform us, did not speak the truth when it became known that those documents were there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u394	You've made your point, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u395	Madam President, Mr Klaver is moving very quickly from someone who does not remember to: he is lying. And then you really cross a bridge. You have to listen to what someone says. You have to judge that. If that's different than he remembered, then you can find something about that, then you can say something about that. The Prime Minister really needs to speak for himself. He has to say what he has to say, but I think you're going to move to the opposite very quickly, and that's intense. And that is nothing but falsehood. I started digging in my memory. It proved adequate, but was not relevant. Our memories can be very mixed, especially if there are months of negotiation and hundreds of memos going on and on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u396	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u397	Mr Segers, you said yourself, the Prime Minister didn't tell the truth at the time. That was my conclusion, and that was the conclusion you made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u398	Just briefly, if he says there are no memos, then that is indeed not true. If he says "I don't remember them," then that can be true, because then it's about his memory. That nuance must be applied to the Prime Minister himself. He needs to talk about his own answers and memories. Here's where we trust someone until it turns out otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u399	A new point, Mr. Asscher? Otherwise, I'm really gonna move on, because I don't want to repeat any previous questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u400	Slightly critical. I listened very carefully, because that was the request that was made. In fact, Mr Segers says here: when I was standing here with my hand on my heart, perhaps I should not have done so. I have interpreted the question as "are there memos outside of the group note I had in my possession?" Do you remember the name of that group note?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u401	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u402	It says "memo tax avoidance and business climate." Do you really want to say that you knew at that time: that memo is not now a memo and that is why I am here with my hand on my heart? I find that hard to believe. I can imagine you saying, "I shouldn't have done that at the time."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u403	I quoted Mr Klaver. He talked about memos written by the Ministry or by counselors. That was the question that was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u404	So you claim that when you were standing there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u405	No, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u406	The VVD negotiator then came to say: "Joh, I connect those two cases, letterbox companies and the abolition of dividend tax. Could we get together in that broader story about the location climate somewhere?" That was the search. Of course, we have written down texts, including on the locational environment and relief for businesses and citizens. We've all written it down. Those aren't memos. Those are texts, but texts in the direction of a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u407	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u408	There's a piece of "memo" and that piece comes from a secretary of state who says, "I have a memo here." If Mr. Klaver comes up with the question of whether there are memos, we have asked dozens of times, and you say by hand on the heart "No memo. Oh, no, it was a memo, but I read it as a group note," then perhaps you shouldn't sit too high on horseback and blame others for not listening properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u409	I have, I have very good... I started digging very well in my own memory. I went very well to the pieces. How did I remember what I remembered? I can't change that. That's because I didn't see those pieces, except for one note, and that was really in a different context. There was one negotiator who brought that in. That was a group note, his vision, his proposal to make it work, because we had a discussion, we had a debate. That was his intervention, and that's really different from some business information like an assessment of officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u410	Mr President, I really object to the fact that Mr Segers talks about a group note every time. It wasn't a group note! Even in the Prime Minister's letter, the word "group" does not occur. What the hell are you talking about? It was written by Mr Wiebes. Mr Wiebes was not even on the VVD list, if I recall correctly. He was not even a member of the political group at the time when rulers could also be members of the political group. He wrote it as State Secretary and I quote the letter 'information from official documents of Finance and Economic Affairs'. So a politician, a VVD Secretary of State, other than a Member of Parliament, has written a piece with the help of departmental documents. Then you can't say it's a group note, can you? None of the political groups were involved. Yes, then group chairman Rutte probably handed it out and negotiated it. So don't touch this. This is another falsehood and in this case out of your mouth. It's an official piece of the department, written by the Secretary of State, and that's what we should have had. He should have told you that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u411	Information has been provided by the Ministry and the group chairman. The then party chairman of the VVD, with whom I and two other political groups were negotiating, came with his vision, with his piece, with his contribution, into a long debate which ultimately resulted in a coalition agreement for which I signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u412	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now turn to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u413	Madam President, as chairman of one of the negotiating groups in the formation, I am happy to answer here for my part in a process that is rightly criticised. In the previous debate, I was asked if I had seen any documents myself. My answer was no, and it still is. In the meantime, I have received and seen them as you have. There are now two types of pieces: pieces that have gone to group specialists at side tables or working groups, and pieces that have been made internally in the ministries for directors. And then there's the party piece of the VVD. Of course, I've seen that part, too. Mr Rutte brought it with him when we had a bilateral agreement together, because of course I also spoke with my fellow negotiators about dividend taxation. These discussions were part of a broader discussion on locational conditions, corporate taxes, taxation and the economy. That brings me to the content. We are again highlighting one of those tax measures today. It is difficult to explain this measure, I tell you, and I didn't see anything in it. The fact that my group would have preferred to spend the money on education is not news. But within the overall package, the abolition of the dividend tax can be justified. With the government agreement, companies are going to pay more taxes. People get a charge relief of over 5 billion, to be exact. Financial inequality is decreasing. Mr. Chairman. Following on from Mr Dijkhoff's questions, I would also like to receive clarification on the various types of documents and dossiers. For the next time, we must have clarity where the dividing line lies between the documents in the formation file and, for example, the documents exchanged between the parties and officials. It must become clearer at a later stage how we stand in this and how a cabinet can then be asked about it. I ask the Prime Minister to get to work on this, but I think we ourselves have an important role to play as a Chamber. Do you want me to...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u414	It depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u415	I'd love to go on. Since he is here now, I would also like to hear a reflection from Mr Wiebes on his statements and the passage on them in last night's letter. Finally. Was I happy with the bounty statue that has arisen in the last few days? No, absolutely not. I hope that this debate will clarify what this Chamber and the people outside have every right to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u416	I thought Mr Pechtold was getting over the process very quickly. I think he's contradicting himself, too. I understand that Mr Pechtold, on all the documents that we received yesterday after long questions, insists here that he does not know them. But he says at the same time that he knew one piece that we know since yesterday. That is the so-called party piece, or whatever we call it. However, in the debate in November, Mr Pechtold replied to my predecessor, Mr Roemer, who asked him: without one report, without one memo, do you insist that nothing was on the table during the negotiations? Yeah, that was his full answer back then. How does that relate to Mr Pechtold's story now that there was a piece he did know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u417	On the table... I think one of the problems today is: what table are you talking about? That has already been demonstrated with the colleagues negotiators. "On the table" is a general expression. When I was in my room with Mr Rutte at the time, he was still a colleague of Mr Rutte, who had a bilateral one, he had that piece with him. That's where he talked out of it. He knew my point of view, knew how I felt about it. Then I was asked on 15 November whether there were any pieces on the table. I have looked at this again, just like Mr Segers, because we both obviously spoke rather confusingly at the time, at least helped to create this confusion. I have looked carefully at the distinction between the pieces that should have been in the formation file and those that should not have been in it. That is what you see me say in the debate on 15 November. And one thing I knew for sure: a party piece doesn't belong in it. There was no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u418	I think this is way too easy. Mr Pechtold is now walking around suggesting that there would not have been a piece literally on the table. But Mr. Rutte did have it with him, he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u419	No, that was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u420	Sorry, Mr. Pechtold. We in the Chamber ask 23 times if there have been pieces or memos, and if there was anything on the table. Would you excuse us if we didn't specifically ask, or did someone happen to have something with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u421	Oh, the confusion is now whether it was on the table or if he had it on him. No, I mean this. My confusion, and what I feel responsible for, is exactly what Segers meant, I think, is the confusion about pieces that should have been in the file. That is also what you saw me say in the debate on 15 November. If we have made a mistake to the House about the 1,400 pieces and one of them has fallen into the wrong pile, I think it should be added. I said that at an interruption by Mr Klaver. But I didn't consider a party analysis at any time as an official memo that should have been in that formation file. In fact, all the pieces that came in last night are not covered by the definition "should have been in the formation file."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u422	Yes, Mr. Pechtold and the question that was asked many times at the time, including to you but also to the coalition partners and the Prime Minister, was not only about the formation dossier. It was about whether there were any memos, notes, pieces, documents, fractions, party pieces, whatever they were, or whether there was any justification for the discussion about the dividend tax. You said no to that. My question is: if we get a whole laundry list in pieces last night, it is an entire laundry list, how credible do you think your own actions and the actions of the Prime Minister, who said in November that nothing was actually there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u423	That's where I've contributed to the confusion. For me, the point was that the debate was about whether everything was in the formation file. Then I can very well imagine that the emphasis, as is happening today, will also be placed on the question: what more information have you received? That's why I said we got a presentation. For the whole formation too, as Mr Buma rightly referred to, you will of course hear the pros and cons of various measures in this country. Mr Klaver spoke about memos "written by ministries or council members relating to dividend taxation." Then I say clearly: "Everything that has to go to the Chamber under the official terms has gone to the Chamber to my best knowledge. If anything has been withheld under the rules as we apply them, then I support any request for information." That's how I understood it. I explained exactly what I meant by that. Whether that's handwritten... I'm trying to explain to anyone who gets involved in that information again how that goes. How did I do that in those seven months? You have group specialists, you have a fellow negotiator, who, in my case, was especially important to the finances, you talk to each other, you reconnect, you listen again. That's hardly just reading memos. You don't even sit at that table reading memos, because then you don't hear each other anymore. I knew all those arguments by now. For me the VVD-piece was certainly not interesting, because I knew that there would be arguments in there why it would be good. Well, I thought I knew him. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u424	Yes... It may be that the VVD document was well known, and I believe it was, but perhaps it would have been interesting to take note of the notes from the Treasury officials, with a lot of reservations about abolishing the dividend tax. Finally, I have a question for Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u425	Can I just take that first point off my hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u426	I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u427	I want to do it carefully. I can imagine that, I say to Mrs Marijnissen. But then, as a Chamber, not only in this formation but also in the previous times, we should have made the agreement that such memos of officials should also be covered by an information file. We didn't make that deal. In fact, during the whole process of the Public Administration Act recently, the GroenLinks, CDA, D66 and the Houwers member said: that may need to be a bit wider. Many others said: no, we have to stick to what it is, to protect the information process. So, once again, Mrs Marijnissen, I understand your question that it can be very interesting to know what is in a memo from an official. I understand that very well. But that was not something that should have gone out afterwards in the context of the formation. I can imagine that we might want to change that in the future. My advice would then be: it might take more than seven months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u428	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u429	Finally. Mr Pechtold is always hiding behind 'that was not in the formation file', but that was not at all the question, not even in that debate in November. Then the question was simply: is there a report, is there a memo et cetera. But finally... Mr. Pechtold made a joke in November about a receipt: he was looking for a receipt. Last night we received a whole laundry list of pieces, that is to say dozens of receipts which turned out to be there and which were maintained for hours in November that they were not there. Does Mr Pechtold still believe that the story of himself and, above all, of the Prime Minister that there are no memories of a laundry list of pieces is credible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u430	Yes. I'll explain that to you, because I don't think I can get out with those two letters. I think that, because I read it very well: in what picture did I have that debate? Because your Chamber, our Chamber, referred to ministries and advisors, so it really referred to matters that I said at the time: I have to answer to cases that should have been in the formation file, yes or no. I admit, I didn't know this laundry list. I knew one and I had decided for myself: no, of course I don't have to say anything about it. That's what Rutte came by. Sometimes you talked to a colleague about just another subject or I had a few handwritten numbers that I had looked up somewhere that I was trying to convince someone else. Of that VVD-party piece or at least that piece of Rutte, which was not placed in the Johan de Wittzaal or in the Stadhouderskamer, but with which he tried to convince group chairmen one by one, I thought on 15 November: that is not part of the plan and I am not going to go about it either, because that was part of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u431	What I've been wondering all along: would opposition leader Pechtold have satisfied these answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u432	He would have asked a lot of questions, and that's what's been happening since 3:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u433	So it's not weird that we ask questions when you get answers like this. To be perfectly honest, it sounds like a bit of a bullshit to me. It was very...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u434	I would never say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u435	It was very clear what the debate was about. I've been quit a few times. I myself raised the question I asked in that debate. It was perfectly clear. It was also about missionary rulers. We knew they were negotiating with us, too. It was also about other organizations. The question asked not only by me, but also by many colleagues in the Chamber was much broader than anything that belonged to the information file. You're trying to narrow it down here. We have asked the man if there are memos and the answer was: no...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u436	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u437	...there aren't any. Has the truth been spoken or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u438	Yeah, 'cause I didn't see them. Let me explain to you again how that works. The only piece that I saw back then, but which was party colored, belonged to colleague Rutte. In other places there was talk of a total of measures. In preparing for the final decisions on "what do you want to do to strengthen the location climate in the Netherlands," I knew: dividend tax is not in my election program, rather; I'm sure I have enough arguments to explain why not. Next came a package in which the Vpb also went down. When the dividend tax began to play a prominent role, I thought: that is not possible if there are no withholding taxes. Then came the withholding tax on interest and royalties, the withholding tax on dividends to third countries where there is a low tax and so on. As we have talked about, for example, the overall package on migration, which issues are and will not be included, I have finally assessed that overall package as justifiable. But that wasn't on that table with all the memos. Again the question, because you ask it rather intrusively: did you tell the truth on 15 November that you didn't see those memos? Yes. In fact, I saw the overview and the memos last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u439	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u440	Pretty bizarre, I'd say you haven't seen all those other memos, but there was one. Then you can call it a party piece or not. That's the semantics. This is exactly what Rutte... you've taken over very quickly.. always trying to do: no, but this wasn't a memo, we put another sticker on it. It was just a piece, for God's sake, written by a missionary ruler. It was just a memo in which mainly the pros are weighed, but also the opposite of the dividend tax. At that time, you felt you didn't have to tell me. You don't believe that, do you? When you were still in the opposition, you wouldn't have settled for that, would you? We asked: what memos are behind this? And you say none. I don't understand why you didn't take or see the other one. Anyway, that's what you say. But you saw this one, and you just said no. Then you didn't tell the truth, did you, Mr. Pechtold?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u441	No. I will separate the two points. You say: I find it bizarre that you haven't read all those memos. In the meantime we know that we knew 15 November that there are more than 1,400 different pieces in the official formation file alone and that there are also memos outside of course. I don't know where I got the time to read extra memos on all these subjects, lobby letters and you name it. I read what I needed. I have involved with my specialists what I needed as a political leader in order to be able to take the decisions that I felt were necessary in the context of what we are discussing today, namely a good locational environment. As far as D66 is concerned, dividend tax was not very pleasant, but we talk about bonuses and we talk about letterbox companies. As D66, we wanted to put a stop to those bonuses. We even wanted to get rid of those letterbox companies. We were joking about Segers going to a Bono concert. Then we said to each other: that was the last time, what Bono is going to leave Amsterdam. In that atmosphere we made a mix of things that were needed. So you're asking me if I knew that VVD piece was written by Wiebes. No, I didn't know that either. Rutte came up with a piece and he had arguments for it. You ask me and you say it's bizarre that I don't know who the writer was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u442	That's not what I'm asking, is it? There's a piece and you're the one who says, no, it wasn't on the table. So apparently, next time we want an answer from you, we should mention all the pieces of furniture in a room where such a piece could lie, because otherwise it is: no, no, you did mention the chair and the table, but it was really on the coat rack. That's a weird thing to do, isn't it, Mr. Pechtold?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u443	No, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u444	No, Mr. Pechtold. There was a piece and that was discussed with you. I wonder if there are any documents, and you say no. The only correct answer at that time would have been: yes, and we are not going to share it. You didn't do that, and you didn't tell the truth at the time. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u445	No. Mr Klaver says to me on 15 November: "My point is that I cannot believe that no memos have been written by the Ministry or by the advisors who deal with that dividend tax." You then ask me: are there any? I said no, and I'm holding on to that, because the piece I saw came from the VVD. That wasn't written by ministries or counselors. I didn't know about the other one. I've never seen that one. These have been made available to financial specialists. I'm not talking about whether they got it from a memo or whether they heard it from somewhere. That is information that I need in order to be able to make my decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u446	I stood here with you, for example, when it came to that receipt affair you were talking about. Where's my receipt? There they were: where's my receipt? I've been standing right here. We would have asked a question, and then there was a ruler who was going to say: yes, but in the question you were not specific enough, because you were talking about missionary rulers, officials or counselors, and this was really written by someone else entirely. You're not gonna settle for that, are you? The question is quite clear: are there or are there no pieces? You said that these are not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u447	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u448	Mr Segers was so magnanimous to say that I did it wrong. You don't say that. You can also admit that you did not speak the truth there, just as the Prime Minister did not speak the truth at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u449	Mr. Klaver can be agitated, he can talk even faster. I'm trying to tell him about the piece of the VVD, which he's obviously interested in. He does now. I think that he and I, who might think the same about the dividend tax and the pluses and minuses of it, do not need that VVD piece to get arguments out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u450	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u451	If you'll just let me finish...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u452	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u453	You are not asking whether there are still political parties... Mr. Klaver, you've participated in a formation yourself. Also at that stage, pieces were written by political parties, yours and mine. In future, if we agree on dividend or GroenLinks sections on migration, without prior agreement, we explicitly agree in advance that parties who have to share in freedom will change the rules of the game afterwards, as a party and negotiator I would feel incredibly uneasy and unsafe and share nothing anymore. When GroenLinks proposes that in future there should also be such pieces, I am afraid that it should all go out of my mind, but that no party has the room for manoeuvre that you are looking for with four parties, which is difficult enough, and in which, as the VVD tried to do, you already attribute to a compromise. You'll never dare do that again if later, when it doesn't work out, your pieces are still on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u454	One final comment, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u455	What a mess. What a mess. This isn't what I'm talking about. I was just saying that you could have answered: we don't make this public. But you denied that those pieces are there. That's the point, Mr. Pechtold, and I'm disappointed by you, I have to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u456	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u457	I am disappointed that you stand here now and say that you did not speak falsehood at that time. Yeah, those pieces were there. They were there, you saw them, and you insist that it didn't fall under the definition. I think it's a weakness offer, Mr. Pechtold, a weakness offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u458	If Mr Klaver stands still for a moment, I can look him in the eye, as he is now rather personal...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u459	Well, that's what he's gonna stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u460	Since he now says quite personally "a weakness bid" and "swubber" et cetera. I just said I saw one piece. I've weighed that down. He says he doesn't believe me either if I say I haven't seen those other pieces. I insist I haven't seen those other pieces. If he doesn't believe me, he'll be free to do so, but I insist again: I haven't seen those pieces and I couldn't say they were there on 15 November. I couldn't say they had to be made public. And what turned out to be? They are there, but they are not subject to the disclosure obligation as the Chamber has agreed in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u461	This is, as Rutte would call it, broadening the factualities. I spoke to you a moment ago when I was talking about mopping up and a weakness bid, and here I stick to the fact that you continue to deny that you spoke a falsehood at that time. There was a note. You've seen it. You keep saying: I should not have mentioned that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u462	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u463	You know damn well you should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u464	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u465	I have a need to say that in the future, or even more so, if it were to be about pieces on other subjects in the last formation, I would find it very bad if pieces were to go out that have been brought in by parties and perhaps not continued in the formation, about which at some point they decided differently and tried to come together and move. We did not do that with your pieces and I would never want it to happen with the pieces I produced to convince others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u466	That is not the point of the discussion we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u467	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u468	That is not the point of the discussion. No...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u469	The center of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u470	The question was next. Were there any pieces?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u471	From ministries or counsellors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u472	On that question, you said no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u473	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u474	Of this, I say: if you are afraid to admit that you did not speak the truth at the time, that is a weakness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u475	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed. I'm going to see Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u476	I would like to ask Mr Pechtold whether it might be that the abolition of the dividend tax was a controversial measure, something that the financial specialist of D66, the second of Mr Pechtold at the time, knew very well. Mr Pechtold is now trying to sell us that we are doing something different against tax avoidance. The Ministry of Finance is literally saying that abolishing that dividend tax undermines the approach to tax avoidance. So that's a story that doesn't last. Could it be that abolishing the dividend tax was such a private plan of Unilever and Shell and their representatives at the formation tables that a communication strategy has been agreed that everyone is now stuck in? Mr Rutte, Mr Pechtold and all those who undertook to do so. Is that conceivable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u477	No, not in my eyes. I've been walking around here for a couple of years. I know that tax and business issues, whether they are bonuses, bank support packages or dividend taxes, are extremely sensitive. So you'll always have to look at why you do these things and, when you do them, in what balance. As a general rule, I am proud to see citizens being relieved of more than 5 billion burdens, where companies are burdened by this cabinet. This is something I believe to defend to citizens who have responded to the crisis, and I think it is best that companies should be allowed to pay extra taxes. I think it's good that you're also looking at employment. I remember that summer of 2017, not so long ago. Attacks were made by the grasshoppers' funds and by investors on large companies, including in the Netherlands. We were dealing with the Brexit. Before the elections, we had heard figures about economic growth. We thought we had over 11 billion to spend. It turned out to evaporate. And we had a difficult formation. So we have done everything we can to see not only how we could create jobs, but also how we could retain them, in a competitive economy where even on a continent where you are a union, you are competing with each other. I was not in favour of this measure, but with the withholding taxes involved, with the handling of mailboxes, with the blocking of further increases in bonuses, the reduction of Vpb by 4%, which many more companies have, and other things, I thought it justified that a total package was created. Is this one measure that we are making even more important today: putting the process at the centre of my ideal? Far from it. My members would have written it in the election program. I wouldn't have fought so hard to keep it out. Or even harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u478	I would like to conclude for a moment that it is very possible that a communication strategy has been devised for a measure which is not easy to explain. I have one more question. Mr Pechtold said that if there are any such documents, they must be made public as far as I am concerned. Now, on 16 March, the Ministry of Finance sent a letter to the applicants for these WOB requests and said: there are documents, but you will not get them. Has Mr Pechtold taken note of this? Has that been discussed by the Ministry of Finance, by his fellow group chairmen or by the cabinet, about 'boys, these documents are there, but we have now decided not to give them'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u479	I didn't know the WOB request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u480	That too, I must say, is not very credible. It was made a huge point when the cabinet took office. The Chamber has constantly asked for this. Then it turns out that investigators are asking about those pieces. Then it turns out that there are those pieces, which Mr Pechtold denied to be there, and then we have to believe that at no time in the coalition parties, in the cabinet, someone said: oh boys, there were pieces, we have to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u481	In the cabinet, I am sure it will have been discussed, at least in that department of finance. I tried with Mrs Marijnissen, with Mr Klaver, and now I'm trying with you. In all the debates so far, I have weighed those documents as much as the documents belonging to the formation process, in the formation dossier. Pieces that do not belong there are documents such as official opinions, party visions and so on. Then you're talking about a multiple of what's come out now. I didn't know the WOB request. I've taken note of it recently. It's under the judge now. It will have to judge whether there are things "archived" in the wrong way that word fell a few times today. But I think it's my job to check. I'm facing you now, but I've stayed in the Chamber because I want to keep my eye on this cabinet as well. So I do not always ask what is and is not discussed in the Trêveszaal. In fact, as group chairmen, we have made very clear agreements on the discussions we have. Sometimes we say shut up, we don't want to know, because right now we're sitting here like 146 others. So what we need to know from the coalition negotiations about the agreements, what we need to know in order to function as a coalition: fine. But you're supposed to get information about WOB requests just like I do. Why should I have insider knowledge of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u482	It is interesting, however, that Mr Pechtold just said that it was discussed in the cabinet. So if the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u483	I'll take that as a supposition. I assume the Minister of Finance or the Secretary of State... I don't even know which one. When it comes to the dividend, it could be quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u484	It was the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u485	Oh, I didn't know that. I thought dividend is a tax, so it's the Secretary of State. Can you check, I don't even know who it belongs to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u486	Finally. So Mr Pechtold says here: I assume it was discussed in the cabinet. But members of the cabinet insisted until Friday that they didn't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u487	Yes, Chairman... I am thinking about how this goes in other areas, for example in a political group meeting or other consultations. How did that go in the negotiations? Then you have to turn back now. I believe that Mr Buma was right to say: what did you do with whom and what in the second week of July? I'm gonna try and stop everybody from doing that. Think back to the second week of July last year. I can still do that with the atmosphere around it. I can do that with the important things I've weighed, to do something or not, and with my motivation to do something. I can remember the discussions and the memos over and over again to get certain things done from each other alive. But when exactly, and if he himself had written it... Eventually, you're gonna make up what's in the formation file and what's not. I said it to the President in the previous debate: if any mistakes have been made, then I am at the interrupting microphone, because I am a Member of the European Parliament to get those documents out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u488	I would like to ask Mr Pechtold how Mr Koolmees, his financial specialist and second, informed him about the 1.4 billion of abolition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u489	I'm gonna do that. But I would add that I'm making an exception. It is the same as I was asking: what did you discuss with Mr Kuzu about the fact that you should now be chairman of the political groups and about your division of tasks, about what he is going to do in the cities and you here? So you are asking me how I came to my decision with Koolmees. I think that is something that lies entirely with me and Mr Koolmees. Actually, I should ask him for permission. And yet I'm gonna do it. Well, how's that going? "They come with the dividend tax" - "Well, boo, we don't like that." - "Do you have any arguments...?" - "Yes, this and that. And the British don't have it either." - "That's good, because there's a problem between the City and the Netherlands right now. A few big boys have doubts, with that double location, about what they're going to do." - "Yeah, but how much employment does that get?" - "Well, I've heard this before and read that." Well, that's the way a conversation goes. And at some point, we said, "We're not convinced yet." And then we said, "What can we put up with that?" We said, "Well, at least we want to have withholding taxes and then at least that bonus culture needs to be reduced further." That's how it happened. I think this is a good example of this debate, because if Koolmees were not listening in now and you asked him how it went, there would probably be a slightly different story. Crazy, isn't it, after six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u490	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u491	That's what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u492	What about you and Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u493	Well, fantastic. He's here in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u494	Did you make any good appointments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u495	We made very good deals. In a few months, he'll take over again. And I'm happy to do this. I am concerned that Mr Koolmees has suggested at some point that he has based the conversation with you on memos he has taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u496	Koolmies and memos... The man lives by spreadsheets, only I don't know if he has that thing from the VVD or what he himself... The man has been a civil servant, knows a lot about these things. I think he could have written that memo better than the one who wrote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u497	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u498	Well, sorry, sorry. Never say bad things about civil servants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u499	I appreciate Mr Pechtold's openness. I conclude from this that, based on the conversation with Mr Koolmees, he could not have known that those memos were there. Then I come to my second question. What do you think of the fact that this is now being made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u500	I'm fine with it. Listen, we're standing here as politics in its entirety... When I let myself get into this last week, I thought, "Here we go." We in the cabinet, I as group chairman, have been unclear about my memory of where I placed it. But we're standing here as a room, aren't we? For you, too, are all thinking here: this is about one measure and not about the measure, but about the process of the measure. I still think it's very important. To people who are wondering what this is about, I say this is about transparency, this is about the Public Administration Act, this is about how you negotiate as parties in difficult times, in a shattered Chamber and yet try to come to something together. That's what it's about. And even if this debate lasts until three o'clock tonight, you can keep asking me why I did things. Only I stand by what I said and you notice that sometimes I also find it annoying when suggestions are raised that I would play a game if I truly take it out of my memory. I thought that was always gonna come out. Wouldn't that be incredibly vulnerable on a subject like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u501	I didn't suggest anything. I am asking for facts and I hope that Mr Pechtold will not blame us for asking questions here in the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u502	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u503	You say you're all standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u504	No, but I'm standing here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u505	I can't wait to hear it. That is what I want to conclude with, because if I hear Mr Pechtold correctly then he says: what was actually shared yesterday is still not in the public domain and it does not belong to the formation file. That's what I hear, and that's what keeps you going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u506	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u507	Then I'd say it wouldn't have to be shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u508	But listen: I read that letter from Rutte indicating... and also that image eh, if he should be moved to that... The cabinet itself has invented: this is going to be nothing but misery; we are giving the documents we did not have to give. Without his permission I say: he says "well, I'll add that VVD piece too, because if anyone ever says I've been around a bit, we'll get that again." That's all there is to it. Wiebes writes in that letter: I didn't do it so handy on Friday. I'll let him do it in his own words. I think this debate is important. I think it's important that it comes out. I'm just saying it's vulnerable to the past, because we agreed otherwise. Do you want it different in the future? I'd say it's okay, but it doesn't make it any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u509	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u510	Yes, but then I don't understand, because it seems like you're still saying: I just didn't have to. So you didn't have to go public with this story. But you say this in an answer: I am fine with it. The question is why this cabinet decides that you did not need to make this public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u511	Mr. Azarkan, you say you didn't have to. You didn't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u512	No, I'm not there, am I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u513	In fact, we agreed for the trial as Chamber how we'd weigh it. Among other things, the apparatus of the President of the Chamber looks at the transfer by the people who are disconnected from General Affairs to accompany the formation which are then at that time not in service of the Chamber but loaned out to the Chamber what belongs in that file. They lay the piles left and right. And this whole debate is about whether the documents that are in the formation file are in it. These are extra pieces. Why do I think it's wise for the Cabinet to do this? Because this has become a life of its own in the whole hassle of which arguments have now gone against it and which have gone against it. And what they're making public now, there are a lot of arguments against it and a few for it, but in the end we politicians are who, even if the whole world says it's crazy... This was called development cooperation for companies, for multinationals. That's what I heard it call it. Do you know how many parties in the Chamber do not see the usefulness of development cooperation and can produce a lot of memos about why the 4 billion we give away is wasted money?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u514	Don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u515	And yet we do, I say to the friends of the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u516	I am almost touched by Mr Pechtold's speech. He's getting very excited about how the cabinet does this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u517	Well...!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u518	I can almost hear him say: I have yet to meet the first Russian...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u519	Watch out, watch out!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u520	...who after being caught in a falsehood by a WOB procedure sends something shabby to the Chamber after three days, but he didn't just say that. I shall therefore begin with a question of fact. Is it true that this response was tuned into the Tower yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u521	I didn't go to the Tower yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u522	Okay, is it true that this response is aligned at a table and on a chair with the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u523	Beware, be clear, Pechtold! Over the last few days, we've seen each other many times. There was what needed to be done. And I'd say, please, get your attention to the Spring Note, because it's gonna be really interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u524	I understand that you would like to, but my question was: has this line of response been shared?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u525	No, of course it has been said in the topical and urgent debate: we have a debate tomorrow and how is that going; that sort of thing. I just want to be transparent about that. But you're actually asking about the familiar road, because I've certainly been tuning things with you sometimes with the C3.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u526	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u527	And also about: how the hell are we going to defend something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u528	That's why you can answer quietly. You don't have to beat around the bush. Throw it on the table!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u529	No things have happened or said that daylight... that would be some sort of cover-up. That is why I want to be absolutely clear. We've seen a lot of each other in the spring paper. Then you also discuss respect for a prime minister who has two things hanging over his head at the same time; what to do when they ask Wiebes and that sort of thing. You know how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u530	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u531	That's why I'm asking, because you're talking about a cover-up, not me. Actually, you're asking us to believe that when Klaver asked if there were any other memos and you said no, you meant: no, I did have a memo from the Treasury, but I immediately recognized that as a VVD piece, which is why the answer no is still valid and I'm going to tell you that six months later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u532	No, Mr. Asscher. When I was standing here seriously on 15 November and I was asked if I knew any other pieces, I said no. When I saw that list of pieces last night and looked at them, I determined: no, I don't know any of them, except for the VVD piece, which I later learned that Rutte was planning to add. Then I thought, "Yes, I know. But that is another category, of the kind of pieces that I have also exchanged with other parties. That would never have fallen under that definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u533	And you realized that on November 15th. It's not that you just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u534	When they asked me that, I thought: yes, of course, I saw a piece of the VVD. I have looked at it, read it and thought: I think it says that it is very good if we abolish the dividend tax. That was clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u535	But with a VVD piece you think of white letters on an orange background, with one word and a point, for example: "Normally. Do." Or "fuck off." This is a memo from the Secretary of State for Finance, which clearly explains the advantages and disadvantages and how it could be done. It's also called "memo." You say you knew there was a memo, but it wasn't a memo. So the question was not whether it should be made public. It has been explicitly asked whether there are any memos apart from that. You said no, meaning yes, there was a memo, but afterwards I consider that a VVD-piece, so I didn't have to take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u536	No, not after.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u537	At the same time you even knew it was a VVD piece. It was called "memo," but you thought: I don't have to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u538	Well, I didn't know what it was called from above on November 15th. I couldn't remember if there was a logo on it. I knew one thing. Rutte has been to the Chamber with me and margin of negotiation. He wanted to talk to me about... You can see that. It's not just a story that gives pros and cons. It's a story that's trying to build up a compromise. You know how a meeting goes. You're not gonna sit and read that piece together. He's telling me what's going on. He's arguing out. We had 15 minutes, or I know. When I was asked on 15 November if I had memories of memos, pieces, papers, whatever, the first and only thing that came to mind was that with which he walked. I also knew right away: that is far from in the formation file. In fact, the other ones I hadn't seen weren't in it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u539	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u540	Last question, Mr President. You said no and then you made that joke "I'd almost think: where's my receipt?" Of course, that is not quite an innocent joke, because you yourself supported a motion of censure because of that receipt. So you actually smelled trouble. You noticed: I have to answer this question correctly, otherwise the reference to that receipt is at least inappropriate. Since you made that joke and you said, "No, there was no memo, because that memo was actually a VVD piece," in that half year, never thought about that joke "where's the receipt?" And thought, "Would it be okay?" Did you never wonder if it was true when the Prime Minister said on Friday that I read in the newspaper this morning... Have you never thought that with that enormous political mind with which you were allowed to lead the opposition here for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u541	Thank you, thank you. I'm turning the argument around. If I thought I wasn't sure about my case here on November 15th, did you think I'd be standing here jokingly? Did you think I'd have made a joke? You're asking me if I remember that. Yeah, I remember the last few days because it's hard to turn down my Twittertimeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u542	The question is: have you thought about it in that half year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u543	No, not in that half year, because... I seem to be right about that, too. I hate to say it, Mr. Asscher, but I seem to be right. My memory checks out. 'Cause I didn't see anything. And what I didn't see turned out not to be in the formation file. That has also been safe; there was apparently no error in it. And what I had seen was far from falling under that definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u544	A lot of people who are watching this debate at home are annoying themselves green and yellow by your performance, Mr. Pechtold. I ask you to imagine that. You're joking. The Prime Minister, once again, and Mr Wiebes, are laughing very hard, while you wipe everything under the carpet, while the reality is that you have been lying. You've just been lying. You've got the question. Ten colleagues asked you the question in November: were there any other memos? The question wasn't: make it public. The question was, were there any other memos? The answer should have been: yes, there were other memos. You should have said that. You could have said 'but I am not going to share it, because those were party memos as far as I am concerned' or 'they are not covered by the rules of disclosure'. Don't just sit here and lie and make it worse by saying, laughing, I've told the truth. Even your colleague, the chairman of the VVD, said, when he spoke of the Prime Minister, that was a falsehood. So you haven't been honest. You didn't do that, just like you put that penthouse of yours behind a lie. So I ask you to think about it again and please say honestly that you have not spoken the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u545	The people at home, as Mr Wilders cites them, know the album of Mr Wilders and his fine-tuned wordings by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u546	Answer me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u547	Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u548	Now I may, Mr. Wilders. That's how it works. This is not an election debate. Now you just have to let me talk. You may insult again, you may insinuate again, you may play on the person where you know the balls of the background. You can do all that. The reason why you have never managed to hold on to a successful negotiation is that you are often so unreliable yourself. Mr. Wilders, when it comes to this file, I've formulated it very carefully. What Dijkhoff was just talking about was that Rutte might have known more thanks to other memos than the VVD memo. That's what he's been telling us. My memory, my statement on November 15 was about that one piece I saw. I talked about that truthfully. I didn't see the other pieces. That's what I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u549	Now it's gonna be fun. Mr. Pechtold gets annoyed and also starts to stutter a bit. He's now talking about "play the man" and doing it back. I'm telling you that typical of your behavior is that you're just a born liar. That is with your penthouse that you do not report to the Chamber, and that is with that note of which you say you did not know him, even though you did know him. You lie all together, about your penthouse and now about this piece. Even your colleagues have the nerve to say: yes, that was a falsehood; they dare not say the word lie. You're proud of those lies! You're kidding. You're smiling at the Prime Minister, and he's smiling with you a little bit. But you just didn't tell the truth. The question of all colleagues was in November: Mr. Pechtold, do you know and was there another memo? And you knew, you just said that. You said no. That's a lie, just like you lied about your penthouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u550	It is a small obsession with Mr Wilders, but I will speak about it later, but not with Mr Wilders. Mr. Wilders, you're so good at these accusations, in those footage, you're laughing at Rutte. I also see "shoulder-knocking" and I don't know what. Mr Wilders really is a flip-flop when it comes to the position he is in. The most important position he has is to suspect people, discriminate against people, try to defy people personally. Mr. Wilders, I've been able to handle you for 12 years. I don't give a shit. What I regret is that at that time that club of yours has not been decimated so much further that we can gradually put that long-playing record where it belongs, namely in the museum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u551	Once again, I told you: Mr Pechtold is having a really hard time. He's going to beat around him in one go and he's talking about decimate. What is true is that my party is still many times bigger than yours, from the polls to the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u552	One seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u553	So you're a little freaked out, Mr. Pechtold. Because you know you were wrong when you didn't report that penthouse. Then you're going to talk about me in terms of suspicions. It's facts, and half of the Netherlands can see that, too. If you get a present from an ambassador, report it. If you don't, you're a liar. Now, with another debate, it is again about a memo, about which you have again not spoken the truth. If I walk right back to my chair, you can say "oh, that little party of yours" and "he just wants to discriminate," but you're all about the answer. You lied at the penthouse and here, and unlike colleagues who do talk about the truth, you won't admit it. You are, Mr. Pechtold, a very small man.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u554	Look, that could be harder, guys. Come on, a little harder. Mr. Chairman. It's a little closure. If the image that Mr Wilders has of me is true, namely that I always lie, I would say: why are you surprised today, why were you surprised 15 November and why are you surprised at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u555	Thank you. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u556	Mr President, I am now making a sound recording of Prime Minister Rutte: "President, it is perfectly clear: lying cannot be done and is a sin. He's been joking."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u557	No, Mr. Baudet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u558	Mr. Chairman. It is perfectly clear: "Lying cannot and is a sin. He's been cheating, and he can't do that. You must not lie, you must not speak the falsehood." They are the words of Mark Rutte himself, whom I just showed, of February 13, 2018. He preaches it: lying is not allowed. We can't have falsehoods. But he doesn't stick to it himself. Because now it has become known that Rutte lied again, this time about memos that weren't there at first and then turned out to be again. They are memos on the planned abolition of the dividend tax. Many pages, in which all experts strongly advised against this. Because abolishing the dividend tax, they wrote, is a major generic measure for a small specific problem and for the Dutch investment climate it does not matter either. The abolition of the dividend tax, as Rutte's coalition colleague Segers put it, is "development aid for UK shareholders." A striking example of how a small sub-interest by effective lobbying among the VVD's networkers prevails over the national interest. The only thing this expensive measure does is give foreign investors an unnecessary gift that will get Dutch people nowhere. You have to compare it a little bit with the following. Mark Rutte comes in a café with some of Unilever's buddies and orders jovial and wide smiling drinks for everyone. But when it comes to checkout, he has already left through the back door for another café, probably in Brussels, while we have to cough up the bill. Dutch taxpayers pay the rounds with which Rutte tries to buy international friends. All this while Dutch taxpayers already have to pay 50% more VAT on daily groceries, while healthcare premiums are rising, taxpayers have to cough up the huge cost of obsession with climate goals, in education salaries can't go up and our older people aren't getting enough nursing. Yes, the fact that the Finance Advisors were against this measure, that there is no economic argument for these measures, that it even leads to international reputation damage, that everything is better kept secret. After all, only an economic loser would like to give 1.4 billion dollars each year to a few British shareholders of Unilever and Shell. 1.4 billion a year, every year. If we make an annual amount of 1.4 billion in cash to today, using a 3% interest rate that is also the calculation rate to calculate pensions according to De Nederlandsche Bank's standards and so on, that means a VVD gift to foreign investors of around 50 billion euros in total. That is about €5,000 per working Dutchman. Instead of the €1,000 per working Dutchman Rutte once promised us, we now have to pay €5,000. I can't believe that there are still entrepreneurs who vote for the VVD and come back here again and again. Mr. Chairman. Again, we run into the corrupt VVD clique, which seems to have merged with the big business, with health insurance companies and with international jobs in the EU. This VVD no longer stands for the entrepreneurs in the country, it no longer stands for the hardworking people in this country, but it stands for a very small group of subinterests, coming from large lobbies. Instead of correcting the policy mistakes of the previous cabinet by introducing a direct reduction in the burden, especially for all Dutch, the cabinet comes with a reduction in the burden for a very small group of people who do not live mainly in the Netherlands. Klaas Dijkhoff had previously had the mouths of the star footballers of the VVD who can control at PSV level, but when I look at box-K, I see rather a few injured bench seats from F.C. Fucking shit. It is time for a red card, because the credibility of our Prime Minister, the man who is to rule us, has now really fallen to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u559	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Wait a minute. We haven't been suspended yet. Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u560	When it comes to the WOB request and who knew about it, I asked if we could get it. That was not possible in this period. I assume the Prime Minister will go into that. I would like to emphasise that I would also like to have it in writing. I therefore welcome the fact that it will be discussed in the Prime Minister's first term, but I would also like to have it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u561	Yeah, you've asked about that before. The Prime Minister will indeed deal with this. There's nothing on paper for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u562	This is a perfectly normal request. I've already asked four times. And also whether it could come in the first term. The question is whether it can be put in writing for a moment. The officials have to write it down for Mr Rutte, so it can just be in a note to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u563	All right, but this is a debate where these kinds of questions are also raised. However, I would suggest that we wait for the debate first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u564	We shall continue with the debate on the documents relating to the dividend tax. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u565	Mr President, thank you. Yesterday, in Question Time, as a kick-off from my answer, I said that, to my best knowledge, there was no memo on the dividend tax that was asked out through the informant or informal, but that there were, of course, texts and so on. That is also what I said yesterday in Question Time, and it was unintentionally suggested that there would be no pieces of dividend tax for the formation at all. I would like to make the same introductory remark here, because I think that is relevant. The most important question is: is it true what I said on 15 November last year? As far as I'm concerned, the answer is yes, that was right. Why did it knock? Because I said I had no memory of those pieces. Having learned about that whole pile, I went through it to see if I recognized any pieces. The answer is: no, apart from one piece, of which I recognize elements, because they are attached to the part of my party. I'm really judging that part of my party as another piece. That is an internal party piece, as I said in the debate last time. Of course, there are texts that end up in the coalition agreement. Texts are being worked on from parties. There will be compromise texts there. Those are concepts. I told you that's always the way it is. It's all about texts in the making. That includes this piece. That's what I think. You can disagree, but that's what I think. Except for that piece, I had no memory of pieces. If I look now at the whole stack that has been sent to the Chamber, I don't recognize those pieces either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u566	It is as if I hear Mr Pechtold's twin-brother reply, because this is exactly the same answer as Mr Pechtold just gave. And why is that unbelievable? Because, of course, you should have said to the Chamber, which asked widely whether there was a memo or a note about this measure, yes. You could have added: because I do not think that it fits within that category that should go to the Chamber, I do not give you that memo. I wouldn't have had to, but I would have understood that. But by saying no or by "I don't remember" or "it's not part of the formation file" or using that kind of word tricks, you just screwed things over. Why can't you just say, "Look, I did it wrong, I shouldn't have done it, I should have said, "Yes, there's another piece, but you're not getting it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u567	Outside the formation file... I will come to the questions raised by Mr Dijkhoff and others about what belongs and what does not, but that seems to me to be less politically relevant. We'll get to that in a minute. The main question was of course: do you have a memory of other pieces? My answer was: no, no memos that outside the formation... I don't mean to say they should have been in the formation file. I took the question as: have you, besides what was in the formation file, any memory of any other memos? So that is, for example, the pile that we have now sent. I see Mr Wilders wants to break in again, but should I finish the answer first? I have looked at the documents and I do not recognize them, apart from one piece, of which I recognize elements, because they are attached to my own note. There's one piece that I remembered last year, of course, but that I didn't find fall under that question. That is what I said in my reply. I have said: of course, there are texts that end up in a coalition agreement, that its texts are in the process of being written, but I have no memory of other memos. Those memos turn out to be there. That is also the reason, as I said yesterday in Question Time, that it is right to bring out these memos because of the confusion that has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u568	That wasn't the question at all. That was the Prime Minister's answer, but that was not the question. No one here in the Chamber, as far as I can remember, has asked: Mr. Prime Minister, are there any documents that belong to the formation file or that may have been handed over informally, which we should know? No one asked. People have just asked the question: are there any more pieces, are there any memos, are there any notes on the dividend tax? And you have chosen to throw the Chamber on the wrong foot with confused answers. You have made the link to formation files or informally, when you should have just told the truth. You should have said: yes, there is a lot more and more, I went with that piece to all coalition or negotiating partners and I negotiated it bilaterally; that piece is there. You should have told the Chamber that. And you could have said, "I think that's a piece of paper and I'm not giving it to you." That would have been the truth. That would have been fair. You didn't. Well, then you didn't tell the truth, did you? You cheated on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u569	Well, Mr. Chairman, I disagree. I really do not agree with Mr Wilders. Those are real pieces, party political pieces. Those aren't memos. Look, there's all kinds of pieces in the formation file and then there could be pieces outside the formation file. Turns out there are. We sent that whole pile yesterday. These were pieces that belonged to the formation, but also pieces that the secretary of state got and which did not touch the formation but which he received during that period. We have tried to be as open as possible. I went to see if you could reconstruct afterwards saying: I recognize those pieces. I just answered when the same question was asked. Besides, there's just a piece of the game. That may really be a taste issue, but I find an internal party piece that is necessary to achieve some sort of breakthrough in a formation, not a piece of the formation. That is part of the VVD, with which I went to walk to see if I can reach a compromise. That is what I said in my reply in November. We have to be complete. I quote literally from November: 'Of course there have been texts that have ended up in the coalition agreement. In such a formation process, the parties work on texts that ultimately lead to the texts in that coalition agreement. There are all kinds of concepts of that." "To my best knowledge," I say, "have there been no memos that have been asked out through the informant or informal, but of course there are texts in the making." I've said all that literally. So I think it is really wrong to accuse me of this now. I mean that sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u570	That is quite right, and I sincerely believe that, because these were not texts that were submitted for the coalition agreement. This was a memo. This was a note. That wasn't an incentive for a text. In the summer that had made the then Secretary of State for Finance. My point, and that is the truth, is that it is hard to believe that you did not know about all the other notes you sent to the Chamber yesterday, but that I take that from you. But with this piece, once again, you have been bilaterally to three other parties to negotiate. You wrote that down yourself yesterday. So you knew that better than any piece. We have just heard that you have also given it to most of the colleagues with whom you have negotiated bilaterally. So you would have known. You knew that. I'm sure you knew that in November. That was in your head, because you took that piece to all those parties. Well, then you have to be honest with me when the Chamber asks you to. We did not ask: was that included in the file or was it informally asked or are there any pieces that have been made or that have come to help write the coalition agreement? We asked: are there any more pieces? And you said no, and you should have said yes. You didn't do that, and then you screwed around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u571	I said I have no memory of pieces, truthfully. That turns out to be the same after I checked it. It wouldn't have been a bad thing if I had recognized a piece, because it still wouldn't have had to be in my memory. The interesting thing for me was that I didn't recognize those pieces when I looked at them, except for parts of one note. I find: a party piece... That is what I said in my reply in November. I said, of course, besides... 'Cause, of course, I knew that piece was there. I have also said: there are of course always such pieces, but that is an internal part of the party. You can't expect me to talk about that in public. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u572	How many party pieces are actually written for the VVD, for private VVD use, by ministries? What is the tax on civil servants and directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u573	In the case of formations, the use can be made of official assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u574	Sure, but when a secretary of state writes a piece and the VVD then claims it as a party piece, I wonder how often the VVD actually does that. How often do...? It's tax money, isn't it? Officials shall work for the whole and not for one party. How often does the VVD actually do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u575	Mr President, once again. It is normal practice that information and formations require official support from ministries. They also deliver to groups. This involves, for example, factual information or analysis or the development of options. Of course, these are not party political texts. You're not gonna have a commercial leaflet written, but you can use it in the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u576	Well, it was a bit of an advertising leaflet, because at the Ministry of Finance they have always known that abolishing the dividend tax has nothing but disadvantages. And then suddenly a piece of Secretary of State Wiebes comes along and that's praiseworthy. You could almost turn it into a Unilever commercial. Mr President, I was actually standing here with another question. I just got annoyed again by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u577	Well, I think that's silly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u578	We're gonna go a little further in the truth finding. On 16 March, the Minister of Finance sent a letter to people who had submitted a WOB request. In that he said: yes, there are all kinds of pieces about this dividend tax; this is the list, but you do not get them. Mr Pechtold just said: I really assume that this has been discussed in the cabinet. Actually, that's what we all think. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u579	No. That WOB request was addressed to the Minister of Finance. It's gone through the normal routing, which is common for that sort of thing. That means it ended up with the Secretary of State. I myself once contacted the Secretary of State for Finance on the telephone. He also discussed it with his minister. Between the three of them, it stayed. I remember that the legal weighting was the issue of whether or not to make public. There has been no mention of specific documents. I also did not see the list attached to the WOB request at the time. Such a rejection will also be made public. That's why Trouw eventually publishes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u580	But why does Mr Pechtold think that this is being discussed in the Cabinet and that this is the normal course of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u581	Sometimes it can be, but not in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u582	Very interesting that the Secretary of State has contacted us about rejecting the WOB request. The WOB request was made on 16 November, the day after the debate we are discussing today. After that, the answer was postponed once. It was then rejected five days before the municipal elections. Can the Prime Minister tell me when that telephone contact took place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u583	I should check that out. I think at the end of February, I say out of my mind. But I'm gonna have to check to see if that's reconstructing. I suspect in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u584	And did the Secretary of State also mention that there were documents on which you should make a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u585	Yes. He said: it's a WOB request that goes on in several years. But we did not specifically discuss that there would be documents related to the cabinet formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u586	But that was the specific question of the WOB applicants. So that's weird. In any case, the Prime Minister knew from that moment on that there were documents on which a decision had to be taken in the context of the WOB. Then we talk about February, not March, not even April 20th. From that moment on, the Prime Minister did not do anything, did not ask for anything, did not realize that dozens of times the same documents had been asked for, and therefore did not use the opportunity to take away the error, or the falsehood, to quote Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u587	That's not right. I have been in contact with the Secretary of State about the fact that the WOB request was there and that the conclusion has finally been drawn to reject it. There was no mention of specific documents, such as documents drawn up for the purpose of formation. I haven't seen that final rejection list myself either. We did talk about the WOB request. But that WOB request was about documents, in general terms, about dividend taxation over the past two or three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u588	This is kind of important. The Secretary of State calls and says: Prime Minister, I have a thing; there is a WOB request and there is a request for documents on abolishing the dividend tax. This Prime Minister then thinks: well, fine. And he says, "Shall I turn it down?" Yeah, okay. So the Prime Minister does not realize at that time that on 15 November, after many questions, he said: no, I have documents neither formally nor informally. He doesn't ask the Secretary of State: what are these documents? I find this extremely unlikely. I think the Prime Minister has thought: this is not a good time for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u589	It's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u590	It's not a good time for me right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u591	It's nicely reconstructed, but it's not true. Firstly, the debate on 15 November was, of course, about the question: are there any documents on dividend taxation in the context of the formation? That's what November 15th was about. This is a WOB request that deals with dividend taxation over several years. We had a short phone call because we had to discuss the legal weighting of whether or not to make it public. There was no mention of specific documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u592	The Prime Minister, with his political feeling, claims here that at the moment the Secretary of State reports to him that he has a WOB request on that punitive dividend tax we're sitting a month before the council elections, we didn't realize that that might be politically sensitive. The Prime Minister claims that he did not realize that the Chamber had asked whether such documents existed, that he did not ask what documents they were and at that time he did not wonder whether his memory, namely that there were no documents, was correct. No, he hung up again and saw Friday April 20th in Trouw: pomtidom, there were pieces. That's what he's saying now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u593	Not 'pomtidom', but the rest is about right, with one difference, namely that I do not agree with the assessment contained in Mr Asscher's question that I would still have the issue of memory top or mind. That was a debate on 15 November. At that time, I replied to my honour and conscience: no memory. We have just had a debate about it which I think is true, at least I said it was true. It is therefore not the case that if I then have contact with the Secretary of State in February, I will immediately remember that debate. He comes to me with a WOB request over several years, about pieces that are about dividend taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u594	Yes, but then the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u595	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u596	Finally. Then the Secretary of State has done an incredibly bad service. Because if you read the WOB request and the rejection and then decide to make it public, then it's not about several years at all; then it's about the debate on 15 November. The next day, the e-mail comes. As a result of that debate, these two researchers are asking that question. There will be a delay first. There appear to be documents. It's up to the Secretary of State to decide. He bases his rejection on the Prime Minister's reasoning that this is not part of the formation dossier. The Prime Minister knows since February, does not think any further, does not ask a follow-up question and is going to say here with dry eyes: on 20 April I only noticed that there were pieces, because Trouw published.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u597	Yeah, that's right. In which I was told it was a request in several years' time. I'm repeating myself now. A WOB request over several years about the dividend tax. I fully understand that there was neither official nor political concern, because the debate on 15 November, whether or not a reminder, was over. The play is coming out anyway. The fact that Trouw publishes this also shows that such rejection is simply public. So then you see: hey, there are pieces. That is exactly why we have the debate now. With the knowledge we have by now. I understand the intense reaction: oh, there are pieces. The cabinet itself gave the impression that there would not be, by saying: there is no memory of it. Turns out those pieces are there. That...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u598	But that turned out to be the case with the rejection of March 16th, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u599	Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u600	No, I'm just gonna finish it. The difference is that the summit or mind of a reminder of the 15 November debate was obviously not there at the time. That was a settled thing. There was no memory. It's not like someone says: oh, there are things in that piece now that have something to do with it. All the more so since it went out anyway. I thought that rejection went public. Then you can also see that there are pieces in there that are about dividend taxation in relation to the formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u601	Mr Rutte said here yesterday: it was only last Friday that I knew that there were pieces on dividend taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u602	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u603	Now he says: in February I had contact with the Secretary of State about a WOB request on the dividend tax. I took it for a while. It was specifically about the pieces that were made around the cabinet formation. It also goes back a lot further, but it is related to the cabinet formation. Is he still holding up that he didn't realize for the first time on Friday that there were pieces about the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u604	Sure, because the conversation was about a request that lasted several years. The question I raised yesterday and, of course, in the debate on 15 November concerns items on dividend taxation in relation to formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u605	Okay. I asked for the information on paper, because I would like to know exactly when it was, rather than "sometime February." So maybe that can still be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u606	Yeah, I asked to see if we could send that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u607	And I'd like to know something else. If this has been discussed with you, I wonder if the overview that was included in the rejection of the WOB request has also been sent to General Affairs. And at what point was that received there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u608	Yeah, I think that was sent to General Affairs. I didn't see it. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u609	Look, Mr. Chairman, I can take it off with "the Prime Minister didn't like me asking on paper." But I've asked for this five fucking times. And now the Prime Minister is here to answer: yes, it has been sent, but I haven't seen it. It was in your ministry, and that's what you're responsible for. That information was there. You can say that the debate on 15 November was over, but this was the big, important political point that was at the time. That information will then be present at your ministry. Then you say, no, I didn't know about it until Friday. I thought you were supposed to share this with the room. Surely you should have shared: sorry, I said something at that time, to my best knowledge, but that is not true; there have certainly been some 29 documents? That's what you should have done, isn't it? That's where you did the wrong thing, isn't it? Then you can say you didn't know, but it was in your ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u610	The debate in November was not about whether there were any documents. It was about the question of memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u611	A number of participants in the debate said that they had no memory of any items in that formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u612	No, I started...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u613	I'm just finishing up the answer, Mr. Chairman. So my first reaction to Mr Klaver is: that debate in November was about whether there is a memory of pieces. In any case, we replied that we did not have that memory at our best; let me put it this way to meet Mr Klaver. The wording was: I have no memory of pieces from the formation. I just said I'm holding on to that, too. I'm gonna finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u614	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u615	I have tried to answer to my conscience as openly as possible. Then that's settled. It's very big now. The question would of course be what could be the motive of anyone to think: well, you know what, we reject that WOB request! You know such a rejection becomes public and you can see in that public rejection that there were pieces that were about the cabinet formation and the dividend... about the dividend tax. So why would you be secretive about that? There was no motive for that at all. The fact is, that's how it turned out. I'm not blaming anyone for that. That's how these things go. At that time, in March or when I had that call, even when it was finally rejected, the issue of the November debate was not top of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u616	Not top or mind? There's... there's... there's... Who cares! We had a debate in November about whether there was information available, whether there were memos. Not in my memory, the Prime Minister says what can be done. Then it turns out there are memos. You'll know that in February. Your ministry has been given the overview as published in the rejection of the WOB request. Then do you not think: I misinformed the Chamber? If you said here in November that there were no memos, then you just misinformed the Chamber, didn't you? That's what I'm asking you directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u617	I didn't say "there are no memos" in November, because I couldn't say for sure. I said I had no memory of memos. That is what my fellow negotiators have said. We said there's no memory. I would like to point out that, of course, we should never have answered that question, because that has led to a discussion at all that has ignored the confidentiality of the formation, but that is another discussion. We have answered that question, and that is why we are right to have this debate. So the question was, are there any pieces? At that time, I and others said to their honour and conscience: we have no memories of that. That was a final debate. That was November. This is a rejection of a WOB request in which that rejection is also made public. That's why Trouw published about it. It's not like we were trying to keep something secret there, is it? The question that Mr Klaver is asking is whether we should not have done anything about it when anyone saw that there were pieces from the cabinet formation about the dividend tax in that row, and whether we blame anyone. No, I'm not blaming anyone for that. I understand very well that at that time people were rejecting the WOB request and no longer constantly thinking back to the November debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u618	To be honest, I don't understand why the Prime Minister here says he's not blaming anyone. That request was made in response to the debate in November. The reason for this WOB request was the debate in November. If this has been discussed, it will also have been the reason for this WOB request. This was because it is now being introduced. Therefore, this WOB request on the dividend tax came forward. Then the Chamber should indeed have been informed when the Prime Minister and his ministry found that there were documents. He didn't. I'm giving him a chance here to say that that was a mistake. And say, "I don't blame anyone"? The only person who can blame himself for that is him. I don't blame the Ministry. I don't blame the officials in any way. He is responsible for providing information to the Chamber, and he did not do that properly. First you say you don't have any memories of it, then it turns out they are there, then you don't send them to the Chamber and then last Monday you say: no, Friday I saw those pieces for the very first time!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u619	Yes, but it is, Mr. President! Mr Klaver may find that annoying, but it is the truth. I'm reconstructing. I said in November, on the question of whether there are other documents outside the formation file: I have no memories of that. Of course I knew about my own VVD piece, but I just had a debate about that that I really think is of a different order. That's another discussion. We just fed it. So I didn't have any memories of other pieces. In the meantime, I've seen that whole list. I don't recognize them in one piece, in part, either. So that's settled. Then there's this WOB issue. It's two years from now. Several years from now, documents are being requested. It's 29 items. Such a rejection just becomes public, so there's nothing exciting about: oh, we're trying to cover something up. Mr Klaver asks me: do you think there was a mistake, did you make a mistake there? I don't think so. Of course, afterwards you think: maybe we should have realized that at that time. But then you have to try to go back to that phone call and then to the official rejection moment. At that time you must hope that those who were present had the full, lively memory of the November debate. I understand very well that this is not the case, because that is acquit at some point; that is settled. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u620	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u621	The Prime Minister is trying to make it very human: who else had that in his head or who else thought about it? This is about ministerial responsibility. This is about informing the House of Representatives properly. I'd like to give the Prime Minister another chance. This information was available at your department. Turns out your memory was wrong, which is possible. But as soon as that information is available, you have the task of informing the House of Representatives. You didn't. Whatever the reason, frankly, doesn't matter to me either. You didn't do it. It would be a pleasure for you to admit it and say that it was wrong and that will not happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u622	If that is Mr Klaver's question, it teaches me, of course, that you should try to get yourself into your own head, that's what you hope for in your environment, but it's primarily my responsibility to constantly realize what sensitivities have been going on recently. The fact is that that link was not made at the time. I can try to reconstruct that ex-post, but I can also reconstruct it in my head. I didn't ask that controlling question at the time. I didn't know those pieces were in there, but I didn't ask that controlling question either. I say for the sake of relief that if it had been the intention to reject the WOB request, it would not have come out that there were pieces on the dividend tax in relation to the formation in that pile... No, because it came out anyway. I understand Mr Klaver's question, but it's so complicated because you're trying to think in your own head... But at that time that was top of mind; I can't say it any better. It was not an actual reminder at the time, because it was a closed debate in November. That's where the conclusion was drawn: no reminder, period. Nor was it said "there are no pieces," because we did not know that very precisely. You never know if there are any pieces left, but at least there was no memory of any pieces. That's not a handy thing; that's just true how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u623	The Prime Minister has been a Member of Parliament for years before he became Prime Minister. He knows how it goes in the traffic between parliament and government. I'm not asking all sorts of excuses why it didn't happen. It should have been done; that is the observation. I want the Prime Minister to acknowledge that. He says: yes, we had that information at the time following the WOB request. Then it became clear that that information was there and we should have shared it. That did not happen and there are all kinds of reasons for that, but we should have done so. Please be equestrian, I'll tell the Prime Minister. This has been wrong, whatever the reason. Admit it. Don't make it worse than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u624	I understand Mr Klaver's question. If you look back on it, maybe I would have preferred it that way. I agree with him. But I'm also humanly trying to ask myself. At the same time, I had no link to that whole discussion about memory or not. I'm repeating myself now, but that was gone at some point. So I repeat the previous answer. I understand Mr Klaver's question, but the question is ultimately, with the heavy state words he uses, whether that is real because you are also dependent on it at the time or whether that is a topical part of your daily thinking: oh yes, we had that too. That was done. The debate was partly about the reminder, but it was mainly about the justification for abolishing the dividend tax and whether you were doing the right thing or not. That was the main point of the debate. The main point of the debate was not whether there are any memories of other documents. That has now become the main point of the debate in our recollection because we are talking about it this afternoon, but that was not in the debate in November. So that was done, that was gone. Again, it came out through the WOB, as it turns out. It's not some kind of cover, but it's just published and then you see: oh, there are pieces. That's why Trouw published about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u625	I would like to go back to the moment when the Prime Minister asks the outgoing Secretary of State, Mr Wiebes, to come up with a party piece, as far as possible. At some point Mr Wiebes reports on that piece, in a kind of client-contractor relationship, I can imagine, or perhaps collegial. At some point, that piece will be delivered. Did the Prime Minister, when he took that piece, at any time realize that there were documents from a ministry underneath it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u626	Yeah, according to the way that works in an information. I was just explaining. As a party, provided that it is not party political texts, but variants and technical questions, you may use official support. That's what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u627	Mr Wiebes has made use of this information, which the Prime Minister himself writes about official documents, analyses, etc. The Prime Minister states that at no time did he have the idea that this would create pieces that meet the question: have any pieces been used to balance the dividend tax? The question wasn't: do you have any memories? No, the question is, are there any pieces?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u628	Yeah, that was the question. Then my answer was: I don't have that memory. Of course, I had the memory of my own piece, but I have just explained, earlier in interrupting debates, that I did not think that was covered by that question. I have also argued in my answer to that question that there are, of course, texts that end up in a government agreement, texts that are in the process of being adopted, texts that are in the process of being adopted, texts from the parties. That's what this is all about. So I didn't feel kept to do that either. The fact that official texts are also nourishing for such a text is part of a formation process. That is a bit, albeit not entirely, similar to own-initiative legislation, where MPs can also use official support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u629	I'll go with that. I believe that. I don't think you have those memories. But now comes the debate of 15 November, and we get the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews. All these debates focus on what the balance is and what the underlying pieces are to come to this story, because the opposition is on the back legs. Then there will also be a hearing with all kinds of high-ranking people: professors, people with insight, companies. During all these moments, the Prime Minister actually wants us to believe that he didn't think once: 23 times have been asked about memos and I have answered that I have no memories. Maybe then it is useful, even in his environment, that someone says: yes, they are actually there and, more importantly, there are 29 of those things; let's just say that and we're not going to share them anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u630	One small correction. Not to be silly, because after that, I'm going to answer the question. Those 29 pieces are over several years. When it comes to the number of pieces that actually correspond to the cabinet formation and information regarding the dividend tax, you talk about five or six pieces. What we have done now, of course, is to give the documents that Eric Wiebes had as Secretary of State for Finance during that period, but not necessarily in connection with the cabinet formation. He was also Secretary of State, of course, and there are also four documents which he received as Secretary of State. They're in the set, too. That seemed wise to us, partly because of the publicity in De Telegraaf last Monday. It came with two pieces, including the WOB list. If you then look, there are four from the period of formation, not necessarily touching the formation. On 15 November, of course, the question was: are you aware if there are any other pieces outside the formation file? I was not talking about a discussion that Mr Wilders thought about what is or is not a formation dossier. No, the question was out there, too. My honest answer was not in my memory. When I see all these pieces now, I say: I don't have any recognition in them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u631	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. I worked at the Ministry for a number of years. I see how ministers have been allowed to work with them too. Walking around with all kinds of very clever advisors, people who do nothing but inform, advise, keep out of the wind, etc. Wasn't there anyone who knew who would have thought: but those memos are there; we have given the wrong answer and we have to make sure that we correct that with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u632	Well, that is actually the question I think Mr Van der Staaij asked of the SGP. He said, "Wouldn't it have been better to actively refresh the memory?" That was the question you asked. As I said, I did not remember that there were memos in the debate in November 2017. But I do realize that after that debate I could have made the decision to actively check that out, that I could have said: listen, we have had that debate now... You are in favour of me, because this was in my set the answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question from the SGP. Wouldn't it have been wise, of course, to ask myself this in the last few days to check whether it was right and to inform the Chamber immediately after that debate, when it was still, excuse for the word, top or mind? We should not have gone into that question about pieces at all. We shouldn't have done that, but we did. We've been talking about memory. When I look back at it, we should have done so, because it was, of course, an important subject in the debate, which was mainly about content.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u633	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u634	Finally. My question was also whether no one on the Prime Minister's team has asked him that he unintentionally did not properly inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u635	Well, I informed the Chamber well, namely that I didn't have a memory, and that turns out to be true. The question is, of course, whether others could have taken that up. More suggestions have been made about this. Mr Segers also said something about it. I have to tell you how that is done in a formation. There are so many pieces in that formation. They're such piles. With the knowledge you have from all these discussion rounds and bilaterals and the way it all goes in this beautiful country, finally from four parties to form a cabinet with a single seat majority, is so terribly complex. There are so many pieces that I can imagine that people didn't think actively at the end of the day: oh, well we have to remind Segers, Pechtold and Rutte that they had no memory wrongly. I understand that very well. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u636	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u637	No, Mr. Chairman, I can't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u638	That was your last remark, you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u639	No, no, Mr. Clover went five or six times. I'm really gonna finish my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u640	Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u641	The Prime Minister isn't answering. This is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u642	Everything is important here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u643	No, this is very important. Everything is important; you are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u644	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u645	My question to the Prime Minister is not whether people could have done that. My question is: if you look back now and you have to make an analysis of where you're going to use your energy... There has been no such request by the opposition on any file as to what the justification was. I can imagine that story with metres high files and 1,500 to 10,000 pieces. This is about a very essential part, of which the entire opposition has asked to demonstrate what is going on. I'm trying to understand. My question is very direct: did people in the Prime Minister's neighbourhood say that you did not unintentionally say the right thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u646	No, and I understand that very well. That's exactly the answer I just gave. From that pile of pieces and all the things that play there were also called ministers, or people who were now ministers, who knew pieces. They were asked why they didn't. They were not even present at the debate, because this was a specific debate on this subject. It wasn't the General Reviews. So I understand that very well. There's such a bunch of material and such a bunch of discussions. There has been an act of sincerity by saying that there was no such memory. But I was just answering Mr Van der Staaij's question: if you look back on it now, that would have been better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u647	Mr Dijkhoff and other coalition partners of Mr Rutte have previously found that there has been an untruth in the November debate. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u648	I didn't hear it was discussed that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u649	That's what I heard, Mr. Prime Minister. In the November debate, several questions were raised about the justification and the underlying documents surrounding the dividend tax. So, not whether a certain person has memories of that, but whether there were pieces yes or no. You yourself said in the November debate that you would be opposed to sending those documents to the Chamber, but that a majority of the Chamber would have to decide that. However, you never gave the Chamber the opportunity to decide, because you made us believe that there were no pieces. At least that's a falsehood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u650	I don't understand that one. If I am asked if there are any pieces, I say to the best of my knowledge that I have no memory of them. I'm not saying there are no pieces. I say I have no memory of it. That was ultimately the maximum I could do at the time. I have just said that it might have been better to close the debate on this subject immediately after the debate by explicitly asking it out. That didn't happen. But the fact is that it lies as it is: no memory. In the meantime, there appear to be pieces, which I don't recognize, except for a little sparkle. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u651	I really wonder how credible the Prime Minister himself feels about this. There is a memo above it: "memo" from Secretary of State Wiebes at the request of Mr Rutte, of which we have just heard from the coalition partners that he has finished one by one, bilaterally, coalition partners. That piece may not have been literally on the table, we understand from Mr Pechtold, but it has simply been quoted freely and it has been discussed. Mr Rutte didn't remember that in the November debate. How credible does he think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u652	I remember that part. I just said that. I said, when I answered the question if there were any pieces: not in my memory. I have just said that I knew, of course, that there was a piece of my own party. I also explained why I didn't find that to be covered by the question. I also argued that in my reply back then. I've just quoted that completely. So we sort it all out half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u653	Not as far as I'm concerned, because the title of that piece is just "memo." Mr Rutte takes it off as a party document. He's trying to hide the fact that it should have been shared with the Chamber. Of course it should have been, all the more so because it has been constantly asked for. Anyway, then. The tax specialists are now aware of this. Then we've known since last night that an army of officials has been informed of his own ministry, of Economic Affairs, of Finance. Then how credible does the Prime Minister think it is that none of those people, for example after the hours of the debate, in which he was constantly questioned on those pieces, have said: gosh, do you remember one of those 25 notes that might have been there, because they were written by us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u654	First, about what was in the questioning about sharing with the Chamber. I don't think that's right, because this didn't have to be shared with the Chamber. What we have done, of course, is to be tempted in the debate to answer the question of whether there are any other documents outside the formation dossier. We had no memory of that. That is what I have just started the debate with. We ourselves, and afterwards it seems wrong, gave the impression that there would be no documents. Having said that, reference has been made to ministers. Reference has been made to official support. I have just explained that I understand very well that in such a formation process, where we are talking about so many pieces, that did not occur actively. This debate was, of course, about the question "are there any memories or are there any more pieces?', But above all about whether we should continue with the dividend tax. That was the main point of the debate. But I'm going back to myself. I replied earlier this evening to the SGP question that it would have been better if I had completed it after the debate by saying: I and my colleagues in the negotiations have no memory; hit all the files and see if you can find something. Then we would have found six pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u655	Right, but I think that's the bad thing about tonight. After all the commotion around this fiasco, the Prime Minister could have chosen to stand here tonight and say: sorry, I told falsehoods; I should not have done that. Or: I made a mistake and I should have actively gone after it, because I could have informed myself, because there were a lot of people around me who were aware of that sort of thing. That's not what the Prime Minister chooses. The parallel with the debate we had here a few weeks ago around Minister Zijlstra's departure is that the Prime Minister is only beginning to worry about the lies when they come out, when they are in the newspaper. Only then will the Chamber have the opportunity to debate it with you, when you should of course have realised much earlier: I was wrong; I was wrong in that debate in November. You should have informed the Chamber about this in good time and not just when it was in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u656	I believe that the answer I have given should not give rise to the hard qualifications that Mrs Marijnissen is now making. The fact is that that memory wasn't there at the time. I admit that after the debate, it would have been better to make that explicit check as to whether there were any pieces. That's how it is. Then you can have a discussion about that internal party piece, but I also think I have sufficiently framed in my reply that documents relating to the construction of a government agreement and also compromise texts in it are of such great political sensitivity that, of course, I never wanted to involve them in any implication in my answer to that question of 15 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u657	It is, of course, quite a special type of debate we are having, because it is actually about whether we in the Chamber are sufficiently informed about documents of which we should not really know the content, because they belong in the confidentiality of the formation. But the Prime Minister has already indicated that something has been said; that is his own memory. I also understand that many others in the Chamber who asked about these documents in that debate at the time are surprised if they themselves do not hear it from the Prime Minister but then have to read in the newspaper that third parties will be informed after a WOB request. Does the Prime Minister think, if he looks back on that, that that has not been the right route? Shouldn't he have said: I shouldn't have gone into it at all, but now that I did, would it have been better if I had made it right as soon as possible after I could have learned about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u658	Worse. In the debate, the mistake has been made that I have been tempted to answer the question of whether there are any documents outside the formation dossier. I should have said that's irrelevant. Anyway, we all make mistakes. In this way, we ended up in that language "memory memories." That was a sincere answer. But with that, I was partly in the confidentiality of the formation, which you cannot actually discuss in public. Having done that, I should have said right after the debate: boys, just a slap on all the systems, to see if there's anything in it. Then we would have found those five, six pieces that were requested during the formation and weren't in the formation file. That would've been the best thing. I want to blame myself for everything. But I find it really complicated to blame officials or other politicians, who have not even had those debates themselves. I understand a thousand percent that, when they saw at the WOB request that there might also be pieces related to the formation, they did not explicitly report it. So I don't want to make that accusation. If I'd known, I'd have wanted to act on it. But I understand perfectly well that that didn't happen. The mistake starts with me: I did not take that action on the day after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u659	I think it's a good thing that the Prime Minister just says that. In fact, there is also a second moment. After the Minister of Finance, who was also a minister of this cabinet, had told third parties that there were certain documents, it would at least have been chic if the Chamber had also been informed: unlike what was said in the debate then and then, there are now documents. Then you could also have mentioned the same argument given in the WOB request to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u660	I get that. When I look back on it, I say, of course, that would always have been better. However, I also ask Mr Van der Staaij to understand the human side of it: at least it was for myself, having made the mistake not after explicitly asking out the debate, a completed thing. I didn't have that memory. Period. Furthermore, of course, it was mainly about the substantive defence. So I understand his question, but I also understand the fact that at some point something like this is sinking into your attention and is no longer top or mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u661	I personally do not find it difficult to achieve that understanding, because that is indeed the way things can go. On the other hand, debates are also there to clarify matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u662	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u663	I get it. I myself was not one of those who insisted on knowing exactly what was going on with these documents, because I argued: the legislation that follows will soon have to show how well-founded the positions of the cabinet are and therefore I do not need to know which memos have been behind them all. But others in the Chamber were right to ask that question. Then I think it is right for the Prime Minister to state that he understands that it is not pleasant for them to read it in the newspaper in response to a WOB request, when they do not receive that information in the debate itself or in a note later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u664	That starts with a mistake of mine. That mistake is that I did not say immediately after the debate: let's check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u665	It was a WOB request that went over several years. So it was not exciting and not politically sensitive. The prime minister didn't have to ask himself if it was a problem. Then why did the Secretary of State call the Prime Minister about that non-sensitive, non-exciting WOB request?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u666	That had nothing to do with what you might think if you looked suspiciously at it. I am not saying that Mr Asscher does that and says: ho, that's what this is about and that's what we need to do. Once again, if it had been, it would have come out after rejection and it would have been seen that there were documents on the formation and on this subject, the dividend tax. There was another reason. But it's complicated for me. It has nothing to do with what we are talking about tonight. It also affects the confidentiality of discussions in a cabinet and other files. May I put it this way: it's not related to whether or not there were pieces in it that touched the formation. It had a completely different reason, a completely different reason, that we had contact about it. But I can't report it in public here. Then I'll damage others, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u667	It's kind of complicated. I did not question the question, but I do find it odd that if there is a request for a WOB on this subject, the Secretary of State will call the Prime Minister. I reread that WOB request tonight. What is the question that was asked on November 16, 2017? Reference is made to the debate on 15 November. So when a Secretary of State calls about that, I find it very difficult to assume that there has been no talk of the political sensitivity of the request itself. In fact, Jesse Klaver's inventory list was shared with the Ministry of General Affairs. And in your opinion, there was no mention of its political sensitivity. The Prime Minister is politically responsible for this. He's talking about his mistake right after the debate. I find it incredibly difficult to assess how he acted on that phone call, which he did not mention yesterday in Question Time, which he did not mention in the letter and what is coming out of the debate. We are now in a very difficult situation. Why did that Secretary of State call and how are we supposed to find out...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u668	Once again, I cannot say everything about this in public, but first two comments on the timing of 15 March, apart from the fact that that rejection became public and that it became apparent that it was also shown that there are parts of the formation that affect the dividend tax. That rejection was also a few days before the municipal elections with the risk of publicisation. Well, if we'd had everything that's happened since Friday in publicity right before the municipal elections... Maybe an additional argument is that we didn't think there was "we have to hide something hush-hush." The telephone contact was necessary. I can't say much more about that than this. It does not touch on the subject of this debate about reminders in the formation on dividend taxation, but it does touch on the broader dossier of the dividend tax and interests of the Netherlands in that broader dossier. That is why we have been in contact with each other to weigh legal and other matters. But that is not going to happen, and I ask Mr Asscher to accept this from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u669	Last question on this point, Mr President. In the debate on 15 November, among other things, I asked whether the dividend tax would be abolished under the threat of a departure from Unilever and Shell. The Prime Minister replied no at that time. In the hearing that followed later in the Lower House where those companies were invited, it was also confirmed. And when Unilever decided to choose Rotterdam, they also indicated that. Could it be that the sensitivity was in the contacts with companies, without mentioning them further by name, except in so far as it has already been done, in the papers of the Prime Minister himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u670	Mr President, I too, as Prime Minister, have been held to restrict myself in public. I can only say to Mr Asscher............................................................................................................................................................................................. Again, if you didn't trust me immediately on my blue eyes, I have two motives for being right. One that it came out anyway and two that this also happened a few days before the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u671	Madam President, I cannot reconcile two things. I just hear a very small knee-bending in the sense of: if I have already made a mistake, then it is right after the debate; when I found out that it might have been, we should have looked for it better. But in the Acts of the debate, Mr Klaver says: have there been memos on the dividend tax? A little later he asks again: were there memos on the table that related to the dividend tax? Mr Van Rooijen also says: if there were any notes, I want them. Then Mr. Klaver comes back a little further: was there information available; can it be shared with the Chamber? And what does the Prime Minister answer quite literally? "I'm very clear about that, I'm not gonna do that." And now he says: a few days after the debate, I would have liked to give that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u672	Now we're getting a few things mixed up. The question was: do you have knowledge of pieces that would still be there outside the file that everyone had on this subject? My answer was: no, at least I have no knowledge of that, except for the VVD-piece. We just talked about why I didn't think that was covered by the question. Then the second question is: shouldn't you have checked after the debate? I have just discussed this with Mr Van der Staaij. That would have been better. Then, of course, the question is: who did you answer to? I know that all kinds of people have asked questions, but my answer was to a question from Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u673	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u674	Yes, I do. Perhaps not that answer, but the answer I have here is that besides the pieces in the formation file, there can of course also be other memos, which I have no memory of at least, but that there are still pieces out there that touch parties or seek compromises in the context of formations. That's what I said. Later, after the suspension, when I had come to realize that this wasn't convenient, because why did I start talking about pieces outside of the formation file? I said something else. Then I explained how it works with the formation file and that pieces outside should not go outside as far as I'm concerned. But I could have checked after I had started that memory, and then I could have, for example, consulted to send a letter to the Chamber, so in the statement that I would have done so and would have said: there are pieces. But at the moment, I would have been very reluctant to make things public. I found it, because we are now so many months away and there has been so long the picture that there are no pieces while they are there, it is now necessary and correct to make them public, as we decided on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u675	I have to say that there is something really different in the Acts. There are three short-term questions from Mr Klaver and one from Mr Van Rooijen. So it is not an answer to Mr Roemer. There's just a very hard answer: "I'm very clear about that: I'm not going to do that." I can't rhyme with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u676	But don't do what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u677	The question was: was there any more information and would you like to share it with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u678	Yeah, yeah, that was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u679	And more information is not just information that was on that main table of yours, but simply: was there any more information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u680	That's right, that's right. Absolutely. It was wider than the main table. This was after the pause in the debate, when I accused myself of making, as I just said, the mistake in the debate to be tempted to speculate on items outside the official file that I had no memory of. Then I got that question again after the break and I said, "No, I'm not gonna do that." And what was my answer to Mr Van der Staaij? Most of that debate was about the content of the dividend tax, but of course it was also about whether there were any other documents. If you let that whole debate work on you and weigh on the hand, I would have thought it wise of myself to just... just me, no one else; my fault to say afterwards: just a check.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u681	Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u682	I notice, Madam President, that a break is sometimes very useful for the Prime Minister. Maybe you should suspend one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u683	Perhaps the Prime Minister recognizes the document I have in my hands: it is the national-wide WOB guidance board. Has he ever taken notice of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u684	I don't have the play permanently available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u685	It is an eighteen-page document, indicating how the government should deal with WOB requests. That is very interesting in the light of all the claims made by the Prime Minister. It was not top of mind; top of mind is the new rutte word for this debate. But that is interesting, because in fact it is not at all so relevant whether it was top of mind in the debate. Article 2.5 of this guide states: "It is very important that WOB requests on subjects on which the House of Representatives is also informed ensure that the House of Representatives is in principle the first to be informed."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u686	But afterwards it turned out to be of course about pieces of paper that we know since Friday that had to do with the dividend tax and the formation. Those aren't pieces that should be in the Chamber. Why did we make them public? Because, in the debate on 15 November, we gave the impression that there would be no documents outside the formation dossier, which are now available. That's why we decided on Monday to make it public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u687	That's not true. We don't know since Friday. We know, after the request has been made, since February. In February, there was contact with the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State and an overview of all documents was made. There are also, very specifically, under number 29 in the category other, pieces of the formation. So even the word "formation" is in there. Everyone in the government must abide by the guidance. If something should also be shared with the Lower House, then in principle the Lower House is first informed, and not the one who submitted the WOB request. But that didn't happen. So even if people didn't know it anymore, perhaps the debate should have been looked back or reread it. In other words, you have not followed your own guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u688	I don't get it. I just need to sort out for myself if I understand Mr. Klaver. You have rules for what's in the formation file, but the discussion was about what was left outside the formation file. There was no memory of that. In the meantime, it appears that there are about six pieces that are outside that formation file. Because of the confusion that has arisen, we have given the impression that they are not there. That's what we said, and that's what you heard. They turn out to be there, so you're gonna bring them out, too. The WOB request will be dealt with in advance. Then you can ask the political question that Mr Van der Staaij and others have just asked me whether I should not have said at that time at least from a state-law point of view: there appear to be documents now, and although I may not have known it personally, people knew it. I should have reported that fact. That's what we've just been discussing. I have asked a number of times for understanding how that is going and said that I understand very well that it did not happen, although I might have preferred it. What Mr Klaver is doing is saying: it is an automatism that should have been done. I don't get it, because these aren't pieces that belong to the formation file.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u689	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u690	This isn't my own memo, is it? This is just an official piece of the government's cabinet. Here's the question: how do you handle WOB requests? This shows that the Court is in principle the first to receive the information to be shared with the Chamber. We had asked for documents on the formation. They come up in that WOB request. Here it is denied that they exist, there it becomes clear that they are. Then that should have happened, not because I think so, but because it is in the guidelines you yourself have drawn up, an 18-page document? You ask us to understand that it did not happen, but you did not keep your own commitments. You have not kept your own commitments, and it would be so good of you if you were right to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u691	No, I do not share that conclusion, because I said just before the suspension or whatever, at least in that debate on 15 November, from which Mr Krol quoted in the second instance what it was about that reminder, when I got that question: listen, those kinds of pieces should not come out. Those are pieces that need to be kept confidential. We are doing it now because of course we have said "there is no memory" and "there are pieces." I think that's right. That is why we have said that it is better to bring out the documents where the impression has been given that they are not there. This is also completely unrelated to the WOB procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u692	Enough has been said about this. The Prime Minister has spoken almost a minute and a half and there has been an hour of interruptions. Many questions have been asked, even in the first term of the Chamber. Those questions should also be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u693	Sure. I have a question with which I come back to what I've been asking all along. I would like an overview of the moment when the Prime Minister knew and when it was in General Affairs. And then I don't want an overview of "somewhere in February," no, I want dates. I've already asked for that ten times. Now I'd like to have it. So my question is: when is that going to come? Is the Prime Minister going to tell me in detail or, as I said four hours ago, will we just be given it on paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u694	I think we should do that in the debate. I asked to see if we could reconstruct when that call was about. If it was near AZ, we can also check. I'm trying to remember those two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u695	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u696	No, Mr Asscher, I am very sorry, but I will give the floor to the Prime Minister to answer the other questions raised in the first term. There are other colleagues who have asked questions. No, Mr. Asscher, you'll have the opportunity to ask your question later. Order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u697	I'm making an order proposal for a suspension until we can answer Klaver's information question. It should be borne in mind that on 21 December, in consultation with the WOB applicants, the Ministry agreed to consider the request only in the context of the proposed abolition of the dividend tax. Why is that important? Because the argument was that it wasn't politically sensitive and that it was over several years. The rejection of the WOB request even states: no, it was already defined, it was only about the intention to abolish. That makes it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u698	What's exciting about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u699	That is exciting, because the argument was just that it was over several years and was not politically sensitive. Then I said, "Why did he call?" The Prime Minister wouldn't say. I see now that it was not at all about several years and a broad question. It concerned only the proposed abolition of the dividend tax. I therefore support Klaver's request, supplemented by this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u700	It's a short reaction, though. The call didn't relate to any of the items that were there and they touched on the formation and dividend tax. That call concerned something else to do with the dividend tax and possibly even the abolition of the dividend tax, but without touching on something that is politically important here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u701	Then I suggest that you also answer the rest of the questions from other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u702	That's what I'm gonna do. There was this question from the VVD: did one of the members of the cabinet, who saw the documents, indicate that in the debate on the government statement? I think I just answered that question, namely that this did not happen. Mr Dijkhoff of the VVD also asked a few questions about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u703	Before proceeding, Mr Klaver has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u704	Mr Asscher asked for a short suspension so that we could deal with the issues we have already asked for a number of times. I support Mr Asscher's request and would like us to be able to suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u705	I admit that in my answer I no longer respond to the WOB request, but answer other questions. In the meantime, I'm gonna have it checked out by the administration. That would be my compromise proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u706	We would like to deal first with this point, concerning the WOB request, which is quite essential. Let us therefore suspend for a while as long as the Prime Minister needs until that information is available. A minute or half an hour; I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u707	An order proposal also requires the support of the Chamber. If a majority wants it, we do it, and if the majority doesn't want it, we don't. Perhaps it is a good thing that you express exactly what your proposal is. Is it intended to suspend briefly, Mr. Klaver?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u708	The proposal is to suspend until the information I have requested is available. I'm talking about information like: when was the call and when was it known to General Affairs? It is also about the question put by Mr Asscher. If all this is clear, we can, as far as I am concerned, resume the debate as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u709	It's a suspension. I call Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u710	We are busy, so I would say: let us suspend briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u711	Support for the application
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u712	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u713	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u714	Since the WOB request is an isolated thing within the whole debate today, perhaps we can do the rest of the debate now. Then we park the WOB request and finish the Prime Minister's first term on the other points. The second minister will then speak. If this is not clear at the end, we can see where we are. However, I support the fact that this information is coming today, but that has already been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u715	But you do not support the request to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u716	Not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u717	As long as there are other issues to discuss and answer and the Prime Minister has a text, we do not need to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u718	In fact, I think it would be better for the debate to continue and wait for the information to come. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u719	If there are other questions that are not directly related to this, I am happy to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u720	Aid
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u721	I would also like to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u722	Then I suggest that we continue the debate. A majority is not in favour of suspending.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u723	I see the entire opposition asking for a suspension, because we would like to deal with this point first... with the exception of the SGP, I see, sorry. The almost complete opposition, 72 seats, calls for this point to be dealt with first. I see here mainly the opposition parties on the interrupting microphone. These are the parties that are at least interested in this. With my question, I appeal to the coalition for collegiality: now allow us to deal with this matter before we discuss the other points. That is why I shall make the request once again to my fellow Members. The parties who are here to intervene would like this to be dealt with first. Give us that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u724	Will it help if I say that the questions I want to answer now have absolutely nothing to do with the WOB request and that it doesn't get mixed up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u725	Then I'll make the order proposal again. I'll ask the coalition. This is a collegial request. The opposition wants it: support it that we can deal with it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u726	I had just understood the request the first time, but I find it a bit strange that, if I just have a different opinion, this is immediately uncollegial. I think there's been a ditch to other questions, including me. I am curious to hear the answer to that. We can do these other things later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u727	Then we move on to the debate and I suggest that the Prime Minister continue to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u728	Mr. Chairman. Mr Dijkhoff asked whether the documents released included documents which, according to the agreements, belong in the formation file but are not in it now. The answer is no. Of course. You can never give a thousand percent guarantee. But everything has been done to do it right. The formation archive contains the documents received in writing, such as letters to the informant. We have received lobby letters from Eindhoven and other parts of the country. You can look them all in. The archives shall also include the acknowledgement of receipt, as well as the requests for information from the informer to missionary directors and the replies thereto, as well as the presentation of the documents by the formattor to the President of the House of Representatives. In the context of the fixed procedure, a formation piece is a piece that is included in the formation archive as described above. The request by a forming party is only included in the formation archive if this request is made by the informant. Apart from that, there can of course be all kinds of other pieces that may in any way have a relationship with the formation, but do not lend themselves to further categorization. Because that was also a question from Mr Dijkhoff: what is the difference between the different pieces used in the formation? Is every A4's a formation piece? That is not the case. The documents now released are documents, internal notes, which have not been requested by the informant, nor by any of the negotiating parties, and also an internal VVD party piece. The composition of the formation archive is discussed at the start meeting between the negotiating parties and the informant, and has been following the practice outlined above for a long time. Mr President, if you will allow me, perhaps I can go straight to another question from Mr Dijkhoff, which actually affects the Pechtold motion. Who is now responsible for the implementation of the Pechtold motion and why did this not happen at the formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u729	So that means that the part of the Chamber that is negotiating takes responsibility, whether that tradition is continued or not. But later, of course, you can get other combinations or changes of function. Does the cabinet see that, in my view, there is still a task for the Chamber of Deputies to perhaps clarify it in a little piece of advice for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u730	I think that all of this may in itself lead us to consider again how to deal with this information position in the context of an evaluation of the formation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is, of course, a precarious state-law moment: there is a outgoing cabinet, a dualist one, and there is a monistic situation in which, on the basis of a chamberal motion, part of the Chamber is negotiating to see if there is a majority in this Chamber for a new cabinet. The latter calls for a very special sorting out of the proportions. Of course, that's happened before. I shall now come to the responsibilities for the implementation of the Pechtold motion. But perhaps I should try to answer that immediately, also in response to the previous question. The motion is dated 20 September 2012, i.e. shortly after the 2012 elections. The motion is addressed to the negotiating parties to make agreements with the informers as there might be more to jointly ensure the disclosure of the information file. This saw, also in view of the plurality, the situation in 2012, in which there were two negotiating parties, the VVD and the Labour Party, and two reformers, Mr Kamp and Mr Bos. They explained in their reports to the Chamber how the Pechtold motion was implemented. Then came the formation of 2017. At that time the same procedure was followed, namely disclosure of the formation/information file, and at the end of the process it was transferred to the Ministry of General Affairs for this purpose, the WOB is valid with a copy to the House of Representatives. This was also discussed at the start of the negotiations led by the informers, Mrs Schippers, Mr Tjeenk Willink and Mr Zalm. It has also been explained and established that the archive to be made public consists of the documents that belong there as well. This is, by the way, a practice that has been in existence for a long time; it has not just arisen. It's something that's evolved over the years. The Pechtold motion therefore places great responsibility on the negotiating parties. It's not like there's some kind of objective person. Now the nice thing is that at least in this formation, but I also thought in earlier formations, is said: keep it simple. One could say that some of the documents are policy views of officials or that they are sensitive documents because they give party political views. You don't want it in the information file. That's way too complicated, because then you have to weigh each one where it belongs. That is why the question has actually turned around: everything that the informant asks out and what comes in to lobby and other letters is inside and the rest is not. In this case, thanks to the seven months we have worked, it was first with GroenLinks and then with the Christian Union and, of course, continuously in that process with VVD, CDA and D66, about 1,400 pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u731	I remember the whole discussion from 2012, which is why the motion bears my name. It is customary law that has increasingly been put into the tradition of the Chamber. In the traffic between Chamber and Cabinet it may need to be reconfirmed once in the future. Can we all, with 150's, also accord those who do not participate those who can change roles during such a process......................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u732	I was a member of the Chamber at that stage and I'm not now, so I have to be reluctant, because I'm a guest now. But I agree. In substance, I would also like to say that I agree with those who are watching for too much openness. If you're forced to bring out every piece... I'm just pointing out the part of the VVD we were talking about earlier tonight. Suppose that piece had also been in the formation file and suppose that it had not managed to get out of that dividend tax. They would have said, "Hey, what did the VVD say there?" What have other parties tried in vain to find compromises? That's in the formation file. You then actually make it impossible to work on compromises in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u733	For those who follow this debate and want clarity, it is important to get this very sharp. What I understand from the Prime Minister is that it has quite a formalistic cause whether or not something is in the file. It's about who sent it or who requested it. There is no substantive weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u734	That's right. The thought is next. If it is requested by the informant on behalf of the four negotiating parties, then it is a piece that needs the whole table. But let's say that the VVD is working on a piece on dividend taxation. Then you don't want that in the information file. If another party is working on a piece on migration or climate to see if a compromise can be reached with official support, then you do not want it in a dossier, especially if it has not succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u735	This means that if a decision is taken on the basis of documents which are not part of the file according to the rules and agreements, then it is unlikely that an informant will say: now that you are already out, I ask for a further basis. Then you don't know if the information file contains the arguments and the documents that were decisive for making the decision. If we wanted to, we would have to make other agreements in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u736	If I listen very carefully to Mr Dijkhoff's question, I do not want to be faint, then you have pieces that automatically come out, and then you have pieces that can be nourishing for a decision, but that do not come out because they do not fall into the first category. As has just been discussed in the debate, there are, of course, all kinds of other sources. In my party there is feedback nutrition from your group's policy staff. Of course, they also have a huge amount of knowledge and a network. They also come with ideas and information. I think it is the same for the other parties. Pieces come not only on the basis of a decision based on official memos. This was discussed in detail during the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u737	I'm just trying to get it sharp. The Prime Minister makes a difference between documents and requested documents and documents that have been sent. How exactly does that process work? How do you come to a decision to ask out? Does the informant do that himself? Do the four negotiating parties say that we want more about this? How do you decide to ask something out or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u738	That last thing you mentioned. I'm just looking at Mr. Van Poelgeest. Am I saying it right? The four negotiating parties in this case decided jointly that the informant should ask out. There's a nod; it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u739	Then there's still a question. The picture that exists now is that the VVD wanted to abolish the dividend tax. He has put the Ministry of EZ and the Secretary of State to work. Then there was a VVD piece. That was discussed with the negotiators, but no one said: it comes from EZ, of which we know that they are very much in favour, while the discussion actually takes place in the Ministry of Finance. The official support that the VVD has sought is convenient for her, but we really need to be better informed. Let's ask out a piece at the Treasury Department. That is not what happened, the Prime Minister says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u740	That's not how it works. It is not the case that on every major subject in a coalition agreement there is an underlying total samtmemo that has been jointly issued by the four parties through the informant. That gives the impression that you can almost arrive at a coalition agreement on a machine. It's an extremely iterative process with.................................................................................................................................................. There are times when the agenda was completely reversed, because we thought "we're doing topic one now" and that suddenly came two weeks later. Sometimes further information had to be requested. So that's not how it works. So you can't say: Oh, there's a chapter in the coalition agreement on abolishing dividend tax and that memo is underneath. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u741	At this point, I am particularly concerned about getting the image sharp. I'm just surprised that when the VVD runs under the arm that comes from the Ministry of EZ, none of those other parties at the table say "I don't know, but at Finance they might have a little more insight into it and we should also have a piece of finance." I think that's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u742	That's not how it happened. It was a piece that made the VVD. Eventually Eric Wiebes wrote that piece as a VVD and as a data subject to the information. He has requested official assistance from AZ, EZ and Finance in accordance with the rules governing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u743	It is indeed a good thing that the formation still evaluates what could possibly be improved in the classification of public documents and confidential documents. Reference has been made to the evaluation of the Chamber itself, but is there any reflection on the part of the government in this context, which the Chamber can take advantage of in that evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u744	I find it difficult for the government to do so, because, of course, we are the children of formation. We're the baby and now we're growing up. You'll have to, I think, ask the parents who caused the conception. We can look into that. Perhaps we should see if it is possible that the five parties involved in the formation, GroenLinks and the four who eventually formed a cabinet, give some reflections on that process. I am fine with it, because I have strong feelings about it, to say that we will also come up with an insight on behalf of the cabinet. However, strictly formally speaking, we are of course the result of this formation and not involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u745	But I am not so much concerned with the evaluation of whether it all went well in this formation as with the knowledge and experience that have been built up specifically in the Ministry of General Affairs. I just want it to be too useful for everyone and also for future formations. We can also use this in our own evaluation of this formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u746	I have just mentioned an official and he has written several books about it. I can see him gloating at the thought that he is going to contribute to this, but, of course, it is also a matter of ministerial responsibility. He hates me now, but it's gonna be beautiful!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u747	I have a question for the Prime Minister about the procedural table that was sent along with the documents we received yesterday. We have now seen that a number of coalition partners suffer, let me say, collective forgetfulness. There was no memory of memos and there turns out to be a whole laundry list of pieces. On page 85 of the documents we received yesterday, there is a little timetable and it says: in the last week of August and the first week of September, memo discusses at the main table. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u748	Mr. Chairman. This is a really sensitive point in the debate. On the basis of the fact that we ourselves had given the impression that there were no pieces but that they were there, we released those pieces. This question goes a step further. You are now asking me to comment on parts of those documents. That really brings me to the confidentiality of the formation process. Quite frankly, I don't know that part. I didn't recognize the play either. I didn't remember going there and I didn't recognize it. It was also a piece sent to Secretary of State Wiebes and not to a negotiating person. At least it was sent to the Secretary of State. We could ask him, but I would also advise him not to go into that, because all this leads to more and more insight into how discussions on this subject have taken place in the context of the formation. And that really affects the confidentiality of the formation. Then we'll go one more layer deeper. We have gone a long way by releasing the pieces, but that is our own fault and that is why I am totally fine with that. But we're not going to comment on those pieces now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u749	Clear. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u750	I'm sorry, but I don't understand any of this. You finally made the decision to send the documents anyway. You could have chosen to say: there are pieces, but you will not get them for that and that reason. We've already established that. But you didn't choose that. You chose to say: I have no memory of it. Then suddenly there were memories of pieces and you chose to send them. Now we read in one of those pieces that the memo was indeed discussed at the main table, while in the November debate we repeatedly asked about the situation and whether memos have been discussed. We were told: no, we have no memories of that. Then it's not weird that I'm asking that question today, is it? Then you can't say, "I'm not gonna go into that?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u751	I get that. At least I don't have any of it and I've heard others say that at least we didn't discuss the VVD memo with the four. In my memory, too, we did not do that with the four, but we did so bilaterally. But later, of course, there was work from the formation secretariat on texts for a coalition agreement, as happened about everything. Eventually, those 73 pages had to be made. It's not a big deal! It was also much more at first. In these variants there will have been all kinds of lyrics; yes, there always is. Of course, you have all kinds of draft texts that are then discussed and returned. They have undoubtedly been there at some point about the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u752	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u753	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. The bad thing about this is that we have been asked again and again about those pieces, and that there is a piece. Now that's called the internal VVD party document. I don't understand it; it just says "memo" above. It says here, "Discuss memo at the main table." Then it becomes increasingly unbelievable that one negotiator after another says: we haven't seen those memos?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u754	But they all saw that memo. Isn't that what everyone says? That VVD memo doesn't deny anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u755	Then I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u756	However, I would like to clarify the question to the cabinet in the reflection on the movement between the Chamber and the Cabinet, the provision of information and the information file. I have been questioned myself, the Prime Minister has been questioned and other coalition party leaders have been questioned about the fact that the VVD note contains elements provided by Economic Affairs. For me, it has always been a VVD note, but we have discussed it. Perhaps it is appropriate to include in this reflection, in the evaluation, the extent to which such notes can also be borne by information provided from ministries. That's an exciting question, too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u757	I get that. I think that's wise. I've outlined how it's going now. So let's get this experience involved in the evaluation. I think that's wise. I have already taken up Mr Van der Staaij's suggestion to think along with it. Officially, we are on the move, and also politically, as a cabinet, we will look at it. I assume that the Chamber has the direction of the process, on which we can then give input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u758	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u759	I have already answered a lot of questions from Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher on this subject, Mr President. Perhaps it is good to say something here about the point, which they also asked, about the parts around such a formation. As I said, the documents that are not in the file are not public. There's a reason for that. This could provide insight into the proposals considered by the participating parties, their views, their arguments and the factual data involved or not. One reason is also that disclosure of such documents may prejudice the protection and the necessary confidentiality in which information discussions and negotiations take place, to the parties involved and to their views. It could be. It is not always the case; there may well be pieces where this is not the case at all, but they are not covered by the formation dossier because they have not been requested by the four parties to a outgoing minister or secretary of state. It may also lead to a loss of confidence and a deterioration of the relationship between government parties within the cabinet. It may touch specific rulers and it may touch a parliamentary group, even after the formation has been completed, which could lead to a disruption of relations in that newly established coalition. To give just one example, in all seriousness: one party is faced with a very difficult position of the other forming parties. That could just happen in a formation. It could even be that it's suddenly three-one in a formation. We have experienced this in different combinations in the time that GroenLinks participated, and also in this formation with the Christian Union there were different moments of three-one. Then it may be that the party that is on its own says: I would like to think about whether I can take a step towards the position of those three; we are going to try that for a moment. Maybe that party will ask out some official information and let some options work out how it could be done. In doing so, that party may move away from its own electoral programme. The last thing that party wants is for that to come out if it doesn't lead to a compromise. Then it must remain confidential. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u760	Let me return to Mrs Marijnissen's question and the answer that the Prime Minister did not give. I want that answer because it was a very relevant question, one of the key points of this debate. On page 85 of the piece you sent along, it's under III Process: last week of August discuss memo. It doesn't say "text," but "memo"... at the tax table and last week of August/first week of September discuss memo at the main table. Is that right? Did that happen or didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u761	I really refer to the previous answer. This can't be reconstructed anymore. All I know is that I agreed with what I thought Mr Buma or Mr Segers said about it, namely that the VVD piece was not discussed jointly with the four. I believe that we have spoken on the basis of texts from the formation secretariat for the government agreement on dividend taxation. That's exactly why you shouldn't release those pieces. We have done so now, but I have said quite early in the debate that I want to leave it at that. Because as I comment on the content of those documents, I am also getting closer and closer to the risk of releasing views from individual parties or releasing something about other sensitive information from process responses. And I shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u762	This is totally unacceptable, and I am not gonna let you send me away with it. You have said two things, and at least one of them is wrong. On the question "were there multiple memos?', Did you say "no" or "I don't remember"? But there were. The second thing you said is that these items were not discussed at the main table. Now we have a piece here that just says the opposite of what you said. And if you leave that undisputed, I can only conclude that it is true what is written here, in these documents you sent yourself last night to the House of Representatives, and that it was discussed at the main table. And if that's the case, that's a second lie of yours, so you're in the best interest of getting this out of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u763	But Mr Wilders' first conclusion was already incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u764	The first one's right, and I hope it's not the second one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u765	No, the first one doesn't add up and the second one doesn't. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u766	You write it here; you send it to the Chamber. It says here: last week of August/first week of September. I didn't write that down, you did, or at least you sent it to the Chamber and someone from the Cabinet, I think from the Treasury, wrote it down. Discussion memo at the main table: isn't that what they mean by the memo we're talking about? And the main table isn't in a restaurant somewhere, is it? That is the main table of the negotiations for the cabinet. So I'm asking you, is it true what it says, is the memo discussed at the main table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u767	That is a piece from the end of August to the Secretary of State for Finance, not a piece for the formation itself what you have in your hands there. It is a piece that we sent along because we also sent along the documents that the Secretary of State received as Secretary of State during the period of the formation on dividend tax. It's four pieces and this is one of those pieces. That's the little table in the play. It does not allow itself to be reconstructed in any way what happened to it. I have just outlined how things are in such a formation: piles of pieces, every day the agenda is turned and changed. We finally talked at the main table about dividend taxation. Of course, because otherwise it would never have ended up in the coalition agreement. That's what lyrics were made for. They were always made from the formation secretariat. Draft texts for...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u768	Will you answer me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u769	I'm working on the answer. These are draft texts for the coalition agreement. That's how these things go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u770	Madam President, I do not accept this. Because this does not say "discuss draft texts" or "discuss the subject of dividend taxation." I believe that this will be discussed at the table before it enters the coalition agreement. It says here: discuss memo at the main table. The word "memo," so, the same word above that VVD piece. It also says "memo" above it. I ask you, let's forget that date: is the memo discussed at the main table, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u771	The piece you have in your hands is a piece for the Secretary of State for Finance, not for the forming parties. It was a document for the Secretary of State for Finance to which a schedule has been added as to how they feel, I believe, I now interpret that discussion in the context of the dividend tax formation will continue. That's how I interpret that schedule. That's all I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u772	But did it happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u773	Well, in the end, a text on the abolition of the dividend tax has been incorporated into the government agreement. Yeah, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u774	I can ask for a point of order, Mr President, but that is all pointless. My question is, for the tenth time, is the memo discussed at the main table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u775	As a few negotiators said before, that VVD memo is also not discussed collectively at the main table at my best knowledge. I don't know for a thousand percent, but I don't think so. We have spoken on the basis of texts for the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u776	"I think," "I don't know a thousand percent for sure," "not the four of us"... I am asking you, not the colleagues! In the piece you sent to the Chamber yesterday, I'm sorry, Mr President, but even if I have to ask you a thousand times, he sent it to the Chamber and I want to answer it, it says: discuss memo at the main table. I am not asking about the subject of dividend taxation or the texts for the coalition agreement. Is the memo, as it says here, discussed at the main table, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u777	That's a piece for the Secretary of State for Finance. This is not a piece for the negotiating parties. I interpret it as meaning that in that document the Treasury makes an assessment of the further treatment of the issue of dividend taxation in the context of the formation. Furthermore, it is impossible to reconstruct on what day we did exactly what we did. Mr Wilders knows that, because he was there in 2010. He also knows it's a bunch of pieces and an agenda that changes every day. It is a lot of consultation, telephone and bilateral and trilateral, and ultimately always trying to pull buttons out and therefore keep that machine that leads to a new government talking and building confidence while we are at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u778	Mr President, I will conclude with...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u779	Yeah, or it's gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u780	Yeah, it's definitely gonna be a repeat. As far as I'm concerned, until tomorrow morning, I understand you don't want to. My conclusion is that the Prime Minister is not answering. He doesn't say that what's written here, namely discussing the memo at the main table, didn't happen. As long as he doesn't contradict that, I'm assuming it did, and that's what's in the documents he sent himself to the Chamber. Then this is the Prime Minister's second lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u781	The first one was already wrong, from Mr Wilders. This one doesn't add up either. I have answered the question and I do not agree with his conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u782	Before I give Mr Klaver the floor, I would like to see how far the Prime Minister is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u783	I'm a long way now. I have a question here about Brexit and, thanks to the interruptions, only a question from Mr Dijkhoff. I have one more question from 50PLUS and one from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u784	It's like I'm here debating with my 4-year-old son. If he's done something and starts with "no, that wasn't me; that was my little brother," or the neighbor boy, or the neighbor girl, I always try to teach him how important it is that you're honest. If you're just gonna be honest with me about what you've done, you're not gonna get punished. Being honest is actually the most important thing. And actually, that's the whole time we're asking about. But the Prime Minister is constantly trying to avoid that here, as if he were a 4-year-old child. He keeps saying, "That's impossible to reconstruct." I have a simple question: did you try to reconstruct it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u785	No. I don't think that's right either. That doesn't fit in with how the formation goes. It would also be out of the question... Mr Klaver and I ended up speaking to the informant, Mr Delors, because the press saw it three times for three hours on one complex subject. That was after a formation got jammed that we were trying to get back on track. That has led to follow-up talks. But it's almost impossible... This was an exciting moment with GroenLinks, so I remember about that. I remember those conversations. But besides that, we have spoken for weeks. I remember once getting a cup of tea in my neck, but I really don't remember all the details of the weeks before. It's impossible to reconstruct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u786	I must say that I have very many memories of those moments, because there were also many important files. But why am I asking you this, why is this important? This is about how you informed the Chamber. Have you made an attempt to reconstruct this? You say no, because I do not think that is my job. You say to Mr Wilders: that is impossible. It can't be both true. Either it's impossible, or you don't find it your job. The official support, which was excellent during that formation, also notes what was discussed that day and what memos it was about. Did you look back in there to see if this was discussed at that main table? And why is this so important? Because we'd like to know if you're telling the truth or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u787	Mr Klaver and also Mr Wilders think they have something exciting here. I sincerely believe that it is not. What's the case? We have strict agreements about what we do and don't share. By talking about memories in the debate on 15 November, we opened a door to a part of the formation that now appears to be there, we have released it. Now Mr Klaver is asking for the next step, namely whether I would like to interpret those documents as well. I've done that here and there, but that's impossible. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u788	No, I'm not saying that. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u789	Let me finish, Mr. Chairman. He then asks, because these pieces have now been sent, to make reconstructions. There's a timetable in here, a piece to the Secretary of State for Finance. Did that timetable come out? What memo is that about? I say here: I have no memory of such a memo at a main table, honestly not. We did, of course, talk at the main table in September about all kinds of texts on dividend taxation and all other aspects of the coalition agreement that should lead to that government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u790	In November it is said: I have no memory of it; they do not exist. In March, it appears that there were 29 pieces. Why are we asking this? It is claimed by the Prime Minister at high and low levels that it has not been at the main table. The other negotiators also say that. In a memo that we're sent, it says: "Discuss at the main table." Well, then it's not a lot to ask, is it? That's not an interpretation of pieces, is it? Then it is not much to ask when I say: that is strange, it says that it has to be discussed, you say that that is not the case, your memory leaves you rather in the lurch; check whether that has been discussed. Then we know whether what you say is the truth or not. This isn't about interpreting documents. This is about whether you discussed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u791	Of course, the subject was discussed at the main table. Otherwise it would never have ended up in the coalition agreement. But apparently Mr Klaver now wants to know about this scheme in a note from the end of August to Secretary of State Wiebes, a piece that did not end up with the forming parties, which was for him and in which the Treasury tries to assess my interpretation: how does the further decision-making take place in the light of the formation about the possible abolition of the dividend tax? He is now asking me to reconstruct that further. I think I'm allowed to draw a line there. We've provided the documents now. If those are pieces that I recognize, of course, that applies to the VVD-piece; I recognize that, because that is my own piece of work I would like to try to answer questions about it as well as possible, but also within limits, because I cannot reveal what the positions of the parties are. But he's asking for something that I can't possibly reconstruct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u792	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u793	I'll draw the conclusion. The Prime Minister is making it very difficult for himself. This is the attitude he has constantly taken in all the debates on dividend taxation. This is also the attitude he had when it came to the missing receipt. He's playing dumb; we're not gonna look any further now. It's just waiting for the next one to surface again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u794	Then it might come to light that, as stated in that schedule, we have at some point at the main table talked about dividend taxation. Yeah, we do. But I can't reconstruct exactly when that was and exactly what text? It's never gonna be reconstructed again, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u795	If you look far into the future, you won't be able to construct things exactly before that date. But look at this letter. The letter was dated August 25th. The letter says: discuss the memo at the tax table the last week of August and the last week of August, the first week of September at the main table. That's not months after that, that's a few days after that. Then something really crazy would have happened if it hadn't happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u796	Mr. Chairman. I refer to the previous answer. It's gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u797	I have been silent in this debate for a long time because I have always thought: we must give the Prime Minister the benefit of the doubt; we must listen to the statement to keep open the possibility that there has been good faith here, a clumsyness, a mistake. But I have come to the conclusion of this debate that this is not the case. Rutte's line of defense is completely unconvincing. He knew about it. He knew that there were memos, and he also knew what the contents of those memos were, namely that the measure that was planned to abolish the dividend tax was highly advisable. That it was not in Dutch interest. That SMEs, ordinary Dutch people, elderly people in nursing homes, people in education and so on all have to bleed for this. That is what is actually under discussion here in this debate. We are trying to demonstrate that the Prime Minister has lied to us, and I believe that this has now been convincingly demonstrated and demonstrated that he has not acted in the national interest and that he has not wanted to cover it up in the national interest. That's what's really at stake here. In fact, the general interest of the Netherlands is at stake here in relation to a number of small sub-interests which the Prime Minister represents. That is what has become clear in the middle of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u798	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u799	I've been quiet for a long time. But Prime Minister, how do you look at yourself in the mirror when you see all this? Why don't you open up now? Use this moment to clean up. Let go of this measure. Release your friends at Unilever and choose the Netherlands. It's better halfway back than all the way down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u800	There are also many political conclusions in Mr Baudet's speech, which I do not think are real and fair, and which do not follow from what I have said here in this debate, but I leave that to him. He has every right to say that, but I disagree. Then to the abolition of the dividend tax. It's part of a wider package. That VVD-piece also tries to outline that broader package, namely the investment climate in the Netherlands. We're a special country. We are a small country, 200 by 300 kilometres, with 17 million people and we are special because we not only have a very highly educated population and a beautiful infrastructure in this country, but we are also special because we have a number of very large companies here. Those large companies are important because many smaller companies are nestling around them. They're getting jobs out of that again. We are also a special country because many small companies themselves arise, as start-ups and so on. So as a cabinet, you have to ask yourself that we have also done so in the formation "Climate of establishment" what you have to do to maintain an ecosystem in the Netherlands that ensures that start-ups can arise and that innovative companies have a chance to grow, but also that these big companies find it attractive to be here, to stay and to come. In this connection, I shall deal immediately with Mr Krol's question, and I shall of course include that aspect of the Brexit. We discussed this in November last year. That's a new thing. The Brexit is a new feature, where we know that companies in the UK are wondering what they are going to do given the new situation. This coalition has said that we have to look for some found dividend tax to abolish a good idea and others thought it was a less good idea, all of which has become clear to a joint package in which we can make a good mix in the field of Vpb, in the field of dividend taxation and in the field of stimulating innovative companies. I really believe that we have succeeded. In addition, once again we have room for a very heavy burden relief for the workers in the Netherlands and the people who are retired, for what Hans Wiegel would call "the citizens." So we still have that. I think that is a good package, and I think that is the task of a coalition. We have really talked about this for a long time, not so much about the dividend tax, but at an earlier stage of formation on the broader issue of the investment climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u801	The relevant part of this debate is precisely that these talk is pierced by the memos. That is the whole point we are talking about, and that is why I have become increasingly convinced in the course of this debate that your course is really wrong, Prime Minister. Because all memos point out that this story, that it is good for employment and that it is good for Dutch prosperity, is not true. So you didn't just hide memos. You have withheld contraindications from your intended policy. You finally allowed our Chamber to agree to a coalition agreement that is not in Dutch interest. That is why this debate is so important, that is why so many people in the Netherlands are watching and that is why you are losing faith in the Netherlands very quickly. You don't choose the Netherlands. You choose sub-interests. That's what the memos show, and that's what you've been trying to hide, and that's what's at stake here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u802	I have been Prime Minister for more than seven and a half years and I can assure Mr Baudet one thing: I do not choose to share interests, I really do this for national, for Dutch, interest. That's why I'm doing this. For that, I work day and night for this beautiful country. That's just a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u803	Then Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u804	Compliments of Mr Baudet's contribution. I have one more detail question. On 1 and 2 November last year, the General Political Reviews held a difficult debate on dividend taxation. At that moment, the Prime Minister gets the question about the memos. One of the questions he gets is: are there any economists who can support this? Two weeks later, on 15 November, we have this debate on the abolition of dividend taxation. The interesting thing is that the Prime Minister comes back and says: I have checked; there are economists to be found. I sincerely wonder how reliable it is that you say in a relative detail question "I've just figured out that story about those economists" while, when you're asked repeatedly for memos, you stick to "I don't have a memory." How credible does the Prime Minister think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u805	It's a fact. I didn't have that memory. When I saw all the pieces yesterday, I found that I didn't recognize them either, except for a part of a note, which is in a different form attached to my own VVD-pieces. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u806	Our prime minister is known for his control. He is known for his ability to debate and to separate main and secondary issues. It just doesn't want to go into it with me, and I'm going to keep repeating that it's credible that the Prime Minister says he's gonna stick to his memory and let it hang in the air that there are other memos. That just doesn't want to go in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u807	I have already answered that in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij, namely what I should have done better after that debate. Finally, on the information on the WOB request. On Monday 4 December 2017, AZ received the notification that a WOB request has been submitted. This is about the period 2016 to today. On 21 December 2017, the Treasury had contact with the applicants, and discussed limiting the WOB request. That is not unusual and intended to make the request workable. In doing so, the request was restricted in consultation of original dividend tax, function of dividend tax, tax aspects of dividend tax including the abolition of dividend tax, introduction of withholding tax and dividend and low-tax jurisdictions and/or non-cooperative jurisdictions to dividend tax in the light of the intention to abolish in the period 2016-2018. On 30 January 2018, a set of inventoryd documents of public administration Finance was sent to AZ. In the period thereafter, the documents have been viewed as usual by the WOB lawyers, who are to assess these documents in the light of the WOB. On or around February 21 and 22 we can't find that moment exactly. I've telephoned twice with Secretary of State Menno Snel van Financiën about the legal weighting of the disclosure of documents. I have just said to Mr Asscher that this had nothing to do with the question: Oh dear, now it becomes apparent that there were pieces in the formation. If that had been a trade-off, it would have become visible when it was made public. No, there was another reason. I would once again like to express my sympathy for the fact that this is not directly related to tonight's political issue. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u808	I'd like to know if there's been a question that hasn't been answered. I'm not gonna have another round asking the same questions again. What question hasn't been answered? Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u809	A number of questions have not been answered, Mr President. The first question was: how did the contact go around that WOB request? Every time an answer comes, it deviates from the previous answer. From "I heard it for the first time when I read Trouw on April 20" to "there was a call from the Secretary of State but it wasn't exciting" to "there was a call from the Secretary of State but it was exciting and I'm not saying why" to "there were two calls from the Secretary of State and that was exciting but I'm not saying why." Something's wrong. Mr Klaver asked this afternoon to put it on paper. You were right to do that. Then you do not get that the disc for disc is a salami technique with each time a different answer. Why is that important? Because this debate is about informing the Chamber. Let me summarize the questions that have remained. What is this Prime Minister going to do to inform the House of Representatives properly in the future? A very large part of this House of Representatives, including the group chairman of the VVD, has the impression that an untruth was told in November and that after that numerous possibilities have been unused to remove that untruth. It was only when a newspaper was published, and even three days later, after a difficult press conference, that the Chamber was informed, as the last. What is the Minister going to do in the future,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u810	This is the question that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u811	... if there is a future, to inform the Chamber properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u812	Then I'll take a look at Mrs. Marijnissen. What's the question? What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u813	Mr President, on a point of order, before we go to a conclusion. This point has been saved to the last and we are going to deal with it as far as I am concerned, not as if it is a final question, but with all the space to interrupt. This WOB request was an important point for me. Soon you will be able to take stock, because I also have questions that have not been answered, but first we are going to have a quiet debate on the WOB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u814	Then I'll look at Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u815	I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Klaver. There have also been a number of questions I have left. I'll get back to you on that. The Prime Minister went through it very quickly, but I thought I heard the date of 21 February when it came to one of the calls. I think that's the day the news came from Unilever. Is that a coincidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u816	Unilever's news was a week before the municipal elections, I think. That was early March. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u817	I just looked up the pieces in De Telegraaf of exactly February 21, which mentioned...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u818	I can tell you exactly. I was at Theresa May in London on a Wednesday and then the FT had a leak, but Unilever's decision came on Tuesday or Wednesday, I say, out of my mind, in the week before the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u819	It turns out that this is very hard in Mr Rutte's memory!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u820	I was also pleased that that decision was taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u821	I get that, especially just before the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u822	I thought it was good news for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u823	Yes, but I just saw, again, a piece in De Telegraaf of exactly 21 February, in which for the first time all that news was reported. I was wondering if that call might have something to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u824	No, not with what was in The Telegraph, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u825	At the same time, that is my follow-up question. The Prime Minister refused to answer the questions that had arisen about the timetable in the documents, which said that a memo would also be discussed at the main table. He said, "I'm not going to go into that, because that's the content. As far as I am concerned, that is not the content, but it is precisely at the heart of this debate, namely when what has been discussed is true. And let that be the question that has been asked over and over again. The Prime Minister states that this debate is about the memories he has of which documents and who was informed when, but I think this debate is about much more. I believe that this debate is about the credibility that the Prime Minister still has. Even bigger, perhaps: about the credibility of politics. Does Mr. Prime Minister realize that he's playing with it this way, to say the least?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u826	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u827	I'll explain that to you, Mr. Rutte. Because you're here tonight with a story where you say "I'm sure I did the right thing" while you have to come back to the story that you don't have any memories of it. You refuse to give text and explanation as to whether that memo was discussed on the main table. Next to you is a minister who on Friday said "no, I don't know any documents" and who reacted irritatedly to a journalist. Now he has to come back to that, because there appears to be a whole laundry list of pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u828	I'm not getting back to that memory. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Die herinnering was wat-ie was.]] I said that correctly. I had no memory of it. I can't change that. If Mrs Marijnissen says she doesn't trust it, that's her choice, but it's the truth that I didn't have a memory of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u829	My question is, Mr Rutte, do you realize that this debate is about much more than who had knowledge of what memo, that this debate is about your credibility, that this debate is about the credibility of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u830	Yeah, and then I asked why. Then you came up with the point about returning to my memory, and I said: I didn't come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u831	We have just had whole conversations with the coalition partners, who themselves admit that falsehoods have been told. That does not, by definition, seem to me to be very good for the credibility of politics. I'm also surprised at your performance tonight. I really thought that you would pick the line a little more: yes, I did that wrong, yes, there were pieces; I didn't want to share them with the Chamber, but perhaps I should have been honest about the fact that they were there. You didn't choose that, Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u832	But Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u833	Now it appears that there are documents produced even at your request, which were known to your officials in the Ministry and to the tax specialists, and you insist that you have no memory of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u834	Just for a moment, because now everything is getting mixed up again by Mrs. Marijnissen. That whole pile of yesterday, except for the VVD piece, I didn't know. In one piece I recognize things, because it is attached to the VVD-piece. So last year I said I didn't have any memories. If I look at the pieces now, if I recognize them, I don't recognize them. By the way, even if I recognized them now, it wouldn't be a bad thing, because I wouldn't have to remember them last year. Just because I don't recognize them isn't crazy if you know how it goes with the flow of pieces. That's it about that play. Then you can have a discussion about the VVD-piece. I really think that is an internal document intended to reach a compromise from the point of view of the locational environment. I did not think that was covered by the questions asked on 15 November. That is my sincere view. Mrs Marijnissen says: having heard that, I think it is about his credibility. Then I'm thinking, why? That's a rather harsh conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u835	Forgotten memo 12.4 says: "The load pressure has risen steadily during Rutte 2. In 2012, the burden was 36% of GDP and in 2016 it increased to 38.8% of GDP. It is expected (...) that, in the coming period, the burden burden will increase further to 39.5% of GDP in 2021." This is the context in which policy is made. The general burden burden, for all Dutch, is increasing. VAT will be half as expensive, 50% more expensive. All our groceries. The cost of the climate obsession must be coughed up. There is not enough money for people at bed in care for the elderly. And so on, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u836	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u837	We noted in this debate that the Prime Minister lied about memos, that he wanted to conceal the real intentions of certain policies that specifically...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u838	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u839	... benefits a very small group of shareholders. What is his response to these figures on the overall rising burden in the Netherlands? What does he say to SME entrepreneurs? What's he gonna tellzzp'ers? What does he say to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u840	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u841	...all those people who have to pay their mortgage and scrape the pennies together every month? What does he say to them if he gives 1.4 billion dollars a year to foreign shareholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u842	An incredible hutspot is now being made of all kinds of different elements. I'm just trying to sort it out again. I'm gonna have to treat them separately. We've come from one of the worst recessions since World War II. I am proud that the cabinet I was allowed to lead, with many different parties and with very broad support from the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u843	Your policy has been dramatic!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u844	No, no, no, Mr. Baudet. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u845	Calm down! I'm gonna try to answer it anyway. I am proud of how we have managed in recent years to bring this country out of one of the worst crises since the war. It wasn't just this cabinet. We have done so with a great deal of support in the Chamber of Parties, almost all parties in this Chamber; even the PVV has helped to do so in the first few years in a variety of areas. That says something. That's one. I'm proud of that. Two: a cabinet that is in office, especially at a time when the economic situation is improving, has to consider the question of the locational environment. Is this a country where it's attractive to undertake? Do proud, large companies stay here and want beautiful other companies to come here? Especially for a smaller economy like the Netherlands, with a small market, you have to make sure that those big companies think it's important to be here. This leads to high-quality employment, but also to a huge supply industry in small and medium-sized enterprises. That is so important to our country! That gives us international standing. If, like a few weeks ago, I am in China with a large trading mission of 165 companies and I attend a business round table with companies like FrieslandCampina, Akzo, DSM, large banks, Unilever and Shell...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u846	I'm going to interrupt you too, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u847	...I'm proud of our country. Then I think it is up to the cabinet to ensure that this small start-up here has the best climate to make it a success, that that lady wakes up tomorrow and says, "I'm still on a benefit, but I want to get out of it, I want to start for myself," living in a country where she can, wherever she can seize those opportunities, but also wherever those big companies are. You have to work across the board. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u848	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u849	The reason the Prime Minister writes the memos...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u850	Mr. Baudet, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u851	Exactly this story is being undermined by those memos. This story doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u852	The Prime Minister has now answered all the questions as far as possible. I am not going to give everyone the floor again to ask the same question, with roughly the same answers. So I really want to go to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u853	I have not yet been able to ask questions about the WOB, because there were other colleagues before me. Which is right, but I had another question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u854	No, Mr. Asscher, I also see you going to the interrupting microphone. Sorry, then I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u855	I had to wait until 10:00...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u856	You have been given every opportunity to ask questions, I believe, about the WOB as well. If a question has not been answered, you will now have the opportunity to put it and I would like to move on to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u857	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the precise dates we have now, which show that two calls have been made. Once again, I referred to the directive on how to deal with WOB requests. That's what the Prime Minister would be looking at. If something is politically sensitive, the secretary-general must be informed and the executive; then the Ministry of General Affairs must be informed. Both have done so and, thirdly, the House of Representatives should then be the first to receive the documents at such a time. That didn't happen. I find that striking, and that is a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u858	Does Mr Klaver mean the rejection of the WOB request or the documents underneath? Because it's a rejected WOB request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u859	Also when it comes to a rejected WOB request. The point is that the outcome of such a WOB request, whether it be the documents or the rejection and in this case a whole overview, must be shared with the Chamber. That is particularly important in this respect because it was previously denied that this was there. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is: does he think that something has gone wrong here and that the Chamber should have been informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u860	I get this and this is again the nice thing about working at AZ just the answer. Shouldn't the Chamber have been informed of the WOB decision in accordance with the WOB guidance? No, because the WOB decision was that it was a rejection and that no substantive documents were made public. That's the answer I'm getting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u861	The WOB guidance goes a little further than that. Anyway, we'll get another note in a minute. That WOB guidance is about informing the Chamber about the outcome. The result was negative, so no pieces would be made public, but it was known that there were pieces underneath. So that was something politically sensitive and therefore it is covered by that guidance and should have been shared with the Chamber. Perhaps the Prime Minister could indicate that this was a mistake and that this should have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u862	I'd like to turn that question off one more time. I'm not familiar with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u863	Maybe you'll come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u864	Mr President, I have prepared myself for dividend taxation and not for the WOB guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u865	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u866	No, I want to finish this anyway. I'm not kidding. I take this very seriously. I am going to ask whether Mr Klaver's last question is also...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u867	No, I'm sorry, I want an answer to that right now. I asked for this in the first goddamn term. I've been asking for it all night. And now the Prime Minister says: yes, I do not have the answer to this. Ammehula! I just want the answer now. I have now given him five hours to respond to this. I'll wait quietly for the answer. I'd like it now and not in a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u868	Mr President, Mr Klaver confronts me, and this is allowed to happen with Article 2.5 from the national-wide WOB guidance. I'm telling you, I don't have it completely ready. So fine. It is not at all bad that Mr Klaver does that, but I have to have official support on that. I'm getting the answer now. Where Mr Klaver says 'the Chamber should have known', the official opinion says 'no need, because in this case the WED decision was negative'. Quite apart from this, there is the question of what we have talked about before in this debate. That is not so much this article, but we have already discussed the issue of the fact that there were pieces in it that pointed out that the memory was wrong. No, the memory was right, but the point was that despite that memory there were pieces. Shouldn't we have reported that? We discussed this at length at the beginning of these two hours. That's what I said about it. I'm just gonna bring it back under the top-of-mind reasoning. But now Mr Klaver says: there is also a formal legal reason to do so. I would ask Mr Klaver to understand that I cannot answer that question by heart and that I ask the AZ administration to advise me on this. That answer really comes into this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u869	Then I look at Mr Klaver, because it is quite common that as an answer cannot be given directly to come back to that in a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u870	I'm sticking with it. I've been asking you all night. I just asked you, too. That answer could have just been there. We'll see when it comes. This question is not that complicated at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u871	Your question will be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u872	The only thing I want to say, Mr President, is that this shows exactly the Rutte method. This is the crucial point in the debate. It's being pushed all the way back. Then I have a question about it, and then it is moved back to the second term. Whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u873	That's not true. I really don't think this is right. The second question I answered, in the event of interruption, was about the WOB request. That was at 5:30 or 8:30. Let's look back in the Acts. I had the question myself being the fourth or fifth in the set, but I brought it up because one of you I don't know who immediately interrupted the WOB request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u874	And this question will be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u875	We talked about it in the first 15 minutes. I tried to give the answer at the time. There were follow-up questions. Then I said: I am going to try to answer it in this period. That was about the exact timeline. I gave it to him. And now Mr Klaver says: yes, but there is also something about the state-wide WOB guidance. Fine, but I'm not ready right now. I had understood the question differently, so I ask him very precisely whether I understand the question now, because I really want to try to answer it tonight. He says: listen, that state-wide WOB guidance actually forces you, even if the decision is negative, to inform the Chamber. Is that what he's saying? He says yes. I'm asking AZ to check that out. If it's true, of course he's right and there's been a mistake. But I just don't know, so I have to check.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u876	I am looking at Mr Asscher to see whether a question has remained and has not been answered. So no new questions, because I would like to see the Minister of Economic Affairs. The Chamber has asked him to take part in this debate and he still has questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u877	The coalition parties have indeed done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u878	No, no, no, no. That was a request from Mr Krol to the regulation. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u879	No, Mr President, I said that it would be nice if he kept available, but I wished Mr Wiebes a better day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u880	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u881	I was just allowed to ask one last question and I am genuinely interested in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u882	Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u883	The Prime Minister says: I am Prime Minister for seven and a half years and it is a very cool country. All at your service, but it's been a parliamentary democracy all along. My question was: what else will the Prime Minister do in the future? Even though he himself is completely satisfied with the combination of the top-of-mind reasoning and the best memory reasoning: there are people who feel that the Chamber is not so well informed. So my question was: what is the Prime Minister going to do in order to do so in the future? 'Cause so far, he's turned down Klaver's invitation three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u884	Then I have to go back to one important point in the debate, which is still about 15 November. I have said the following in reflective terms, challenged by Mr Van der Staaij. If you make the mistake in the debate, which I made mostly, because I was the main speaker, of course, that you open a door to pieces that should not really be involved in such a discussion because they touch on the confidentiality of the negotiations, you should not say, if you have no memory of it, that is what it is. No, you have to say actively: I want to find out. I should have. I have worked with Mr Asscher for five years, and I think he doesn't think otherwise: you're always trying to build in a feedback system in your functioning, not just of people, but also in which you close the loop when there's an open end, so you're also trying to check what's going on with that open end. Actually, there was an open end here, because I said, "I don't have a memory." At that time, I closed that debate for myself, in my mind, and thought: now it is all about the content of the dividend tax and not about pieces. I don't know about pieces, besides that VVD piece, but we've had a discussion about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u885	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u886	But that point goes beyond this subject. I'm going one step further. I think it is my job as Prime Minister, and I continue to learn to close that loop every time such an open end occurs and to do so explicitly. I have to force myself to do that. That didn't happen here. That's part of the cause of this whole thing, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u887	One last question, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u888	No, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u889	It's a nice part of the discussion, though. Oh, sorry, I don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u890	I am sure Mr Baudet will agree. My question is whether I understood the Prime Minister correctly. We had a seven-and-a-half-hour debate in the first term. When I ask what he would do better next time, the Prime Minister actually says elegantly, reflectively: I gave too much information to the Chamber on 15 November. That is the point of reference, because he has answered my question. He does not say: the Chamber rightly asked about the possible objections that had been raised to this proposal. He doesn't say: I've had six months to find out that I should have informed the Chamber. He does not say: a falsehood has been spoken, and I regret that. He says, "I've given too much information to the Chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u891	So I deny that a falsehood has been spoken. But I think that is a political weighting. I really don't think so. But I understand what Mr Asscher is saying. This debate, of course, dealt with: what is the basis of the decision and are there documents for it? I sincerely believe that you should not release pieces from a formation which are not in the file and which can give an insight into the position of the parties. I think that's sincere. Perhaps we should have seen if we could have informed the Chamber otherwise about the pros and cons. That would have been an option. But my reflection wasn't specifically about this. I think that this is how we have always worked together in those five years, so that you must constantly provide feedback systems for people in your work. It's very important that you have people around you who contradict you twice a day and don't say "He's great!" "Who?" "Well... You!" "Ah! ... Him!', à la Asterix and Obelix. No, you have to take care of real people who actually give feedback. Furthermore, you have to make sure that you close the "walk" when there are open ends. There's been an open end here. I don't think we should have let that open end come into being. We could have found another way in that debate to provide that information, but not through access to formation documents that we ourselves did not have the memories of. So that's what we had... We shouldn't have gone into that discussion at all. If it does happen, I think it's my job to close it too. That's what I said earlier tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u892	For you too: has a question not been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u893	Yeah, he'd like to ask another question. Sure. That question concerns an important point made by the Prime Minister about five or ten minutes ago. "What motive," the Prime Minister asked, "could I have to cover up these cases?" "Believe me," he said to us as a room, "I have no reason to withhold pieces. I have no reason to lie about this. I only get myself into trouble, so believe me now that my intentions were positive." Then I would like to read out the following from the staff note sent to the Minister or the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and which has been withheld. This is precisely the point of this whole discussion, namely that the abolition of the dividend tax leads to 1.4 billion losses, which is accompanied by a shift of the tax burden from foreign shareholders to Dutch taxpayers and the result is that most of the losses are in favour of foreign governments. In fact, these two sentences are at the heart of Mr Rutte's entire cover operation. Since I did not get a good answer last time, I would like to ask him again what he says to all those gullible SMEs andzzp'ers and to all those enterprising people who so far thought their interests were in good hands with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u894	That this burden shift did not take place, because we did not increase the burden anywhere else. That's one. So that's just not true. In full width, loads go down. If you look at the whole of the coalition agreement, just as completely separate from the dividend tax, the total burden on companies is either plus 100 million or minus 100 million. For ordinary citizens, the reduction in charges is enormous. The companies benefit from that, too. This is separate from the 1.4 billion dividend tax. You're doing it for another reason. You don't do that to lighten the load there. You do that to make it attractive for companies that work internationally to settle here. This is important for the Netherlands for the reason I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u895	Now I really want to give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u896	Mr President, thank you. I think it is appropriate to deal first with the matter of last Friday's string. There have been many qualifications for this, but Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Pechtold have asked me to reflect on this. That string wasn't my sharpest performance. I just didn't do that right. But to answer the question what I actually think of that, I took a little distance first and I went to watch that video, not the short version, but the long version. If you're watching that video, you're doing two observations, at least I am. The first is: I see a very confusing conversation. I see a Mr. Oh, that's me being addressed about "a much-discussed formation memo that would have been seen by Schouten and Koolmees." That's the magic formula. That gentleman asks for three times what much-discussed memo it is. That goes on for a while and finally the gentleman realizes that if it is a memo that has been seen by Schouten and Koolmees, that much discussed memo has just not been put on his table. During that confusing conversation it is true that demand is gradually being formulated more and more generally. But the gentleman doesn't realize that, because he's thinking very hard about that answer. Then you can say: I've been fooled a little bit too. There is also a second observation and that is actually the real story. Whatever you see when you distance yourself as a viewer, is that during the conversation with the viewer I get the impression that this gentleman who is speaking there has never heard of his life of dividend tax and in any case knows nothing about it. That is bullshit, because that Mr.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You can see it happening in the video. I am very legalistic there looking for answers about that one memo, which I still can't find in the list which one should be, and failing to clarify the underlying issue, namely: does this gentleman know anything about it? Yes. He was Secretary of State for Finance and knew about it. As Secretary of State, he just got documents. He got pieces at the tax table. He has given his own party a written view. A much more appropriate answer would therefore have been: I am fully aware of the issues surrounding the possible abolition of the dividend tax. So how do I feel about that? I have been asked by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Pechtold. Then I would like to take advantage of someone who, without his knowledge, sometimes lends himself as a measure, and that is Mr Asscher. During my political career, he has made comments about my performances, both praised and critical. But he's never brought it up to the word embarrassing. I am prepared to release a certain factor of opposition, but the message is still not good. Of course I care, so the message for me is: you can keep asking about a specific memo endlessly, but the message is that I should have said that I was aware of that of course. The one about the string.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u897	I would like to return to the debate in November with Mr Wiebes. Since last night, we know there's a piece, a memo. After all, that is the title of the piece of your hand, of Minister Wiebes' hand. He has undoubtedly heard the Prime Minister repeat several times in the November debate: I have no memories of a memo. Has there been any time when Mr Wiebes thought: 'Oh, perhaps I should remind my colleague that there is a piece of my hand?' Or hasn't that occurred to you at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u898	I consider a piece I make as a party piece not a formation piece. It's also really read as a formation piece, because when you read the piece, it doesn't look like a piece that comes from an official apparatus. I consider that to be feeding someone who negotiates on behalf of my party. That is what other parties are doing, I hope, and I assume. I didn't see it as a piece that was before. I just fed Rutte with thoughts. Because I have some passionate views about that. I sent it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u899	I understand by now that the Prime Minister, and also Mr Wiebes, is struggling to get out of that question, but the title of the piece is simply'memo'. Mr Rutte's question in that debate was: were there memos? So my question to Mr Wiebes once again is: has there been nothing in your mind what thought, gosh, perhaps it would be useful to draw my colleague Rutte's attention to that? Maybe he should at least name the piece so that we in the Chamber at least knew of its existence. Once again, because the Prime Minister indicated in the November debate: I would not appreciate those documents being made public, but that is what the Chamber is about. But the point was, of course, that the Chamber did not know at all about the existence of those documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u900	This debate shows, above all, that we need a review of the language around all these so-called memos. So far, I haven't seen feeding our own negotiator as a formation memo. Let me say that I suspect that anyone who has been involved in the negotiations in the last two attempts, the last of which has been successful, did not think that their own party instructions were formation memos either. That's what the negotiators themselves are about, but that's what I think. At least I thought so and I didn't think: the piece I sent is a formation memo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u901	I think that the Minister is making a touching attempt to put himself here rather than very useful in the speech. We've seen him before for cameras, and that went a lot better. My question follows on from Mrs Marijnissen's question. If the Minister is now aware of what people really wanted to know, such as: are there several pieces, there has been a well-founded discussion about this dividend tax, he should of course have given it to the journalist, because now there has been confusion about it. If the Minister realizes this now about an interview, he could have realized it when he heard the Prime Minister say here all the time: no, I have no memory of a memo. Then you would expect this minister, with the same wisdom of today, to say: it is not about the one specific memo on that one table with that precise title. The Chamber just wants to know: are there pieces or not? You gotta say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u902	When it comes to whether there has been a well-founded discussion about dividend taxation, we have had it here. There have been several well-founded discussions and several government officials from the cabinet have in turn dealt with this well-founded discussion. I don't think there's any doubt about that. That is not what this debate is about either. I hear pros and cons. I hear a lot of information about memos, but I haven't heard anyone here say there hasn't been a substantiated discussion about it. That wasn't what I thought I had to fix.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u903	That wasn't my question either. Look, the minister here is trying to act like he didn't even notice what kind of information the journalist wanted to know. I get that. It happens. But the Minister doesn't come up with this explanation until the cabinet can't get past it. That's the same situation we had here in the Chamber. Then we asked the Prime Minister: are there any pieces? The Minister of Economic Affairs knew very well which pieces were going around. He walked it under his arm himself. Then he could have sensed what the Chamber was looking for. And there could have been an honest answer to that: yes, there are several pieces, which we discussed, but we are not going to share. But not that vague, lame "I have no memory of it." Because it is now very likely that a communication strategy has been followed to create as much fog as possible. This made it a confusing interview last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u904	Well, I guess there aren't many people who have accused me of a communication strategy in that conversation; so far, no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u905	I had a question about the memo that was written.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u906	I'll get to that. Can I still come up with that? I've gotten to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u907	Yes, I suggest you continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u908	As far as I've been keeping track, one question has been asked. One question has not been asked either, but it has been published in the media. So I am also answering a non-asked question, because that seems useful to me. The question that has been asked is Mr Asscher's. Is there a link between dividend tax, gas extraction and tax arrangements? No, of course there isn't. There is no question of reciprocity either. The subjects have nothing to do with each other. You can allow holding companies that come here to contribute to economic activities in a variety of ways, but that does not have to do with the abolition of the dividend tax. The clutch isn't there. There is no reciprocity, neither legal nor legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u909	Let me turn to Mr Asscher's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u910	Fortunately, I would say, and logical, but it's in that memo and it's a mysterious phrase. My question was: can the Minister explain why it was in that memo and how he dealt with it? It is a very sensitive issue, however, which this Minister knows better than anyone when he feels that security is a means of exchange in relation to other matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u911	I am not going to answer the question of party positions, but I would like to answer the question of how this has been handled. The answer is not. It hasn't been dealt with. Nothing has happened to these comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u912	Okay. So there has been a suggestion that you have put aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u913	There's a line of thought that didn't lead to anything at the end of the day. A more serious issue has been raised in the media. There is doubt as to whether the obligation of confidentiality under Article 67 has been broken by writing the memo. There are motives for not coming to the Netherlands and they are linked to companies. They may have been wiped out, but that would mean that, before they were wiped out, someone had to see that a company did not come to the Netherlands for tax reasons or for the purposes of the dividend tax. For this, all of them are drawn from public sources. With every name that's been wiped out, I have a public source with a date, a medium and a page. There is. They are public sources, because there is no other way to do so in a legitimate way. It is also not the Tax Administration that knows why companies settle here or not. The service doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u914	Then the simple question is why it was wiped away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u915	Yes. That's a very fast yes. At the table, I just asked, "Why did it go away?" At that time I was told that it was not really necessary. It's extremely fast. Here's the answer. Thank you. Impressive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u916	Thank you for this very fast and honest answer. Maybe it can still be replenished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u917	I'd be happy to uncoat it. They're public resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u918	If it's unpainted, we don't have to look into it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u919	Yeah, I'm gonna take care of the detonation. These were the questions that were asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u920	Mr Azarkan has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u921	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. At what time did the minister in his former role as the outgoing secretary of state and writer of the memo that everyone can remember now take note of the underlying documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u922	This can be seen in the flow of pieces, namely constantly. I have been kept informed of all kinds of taxes for four years, including the dividend tax. I was aware of what was going on. In addition, during the cabinet period, I had formed a rather passionate view on the locational climate, an en- en policy. We need to make sure that the Netherlands does not facilitate tax avoidance anymore, because that hurts us and is bad for our image. That's what I stand for. And I turned that in to someone who could do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u923	All the appreciation for that. Good thing we're gonna do it. There's gonna be some good proposals. You are following the debate here in the Chamber, occasionally, so your antennas are on edge, especially in debates in which, up to 23 times, you and our Prime Minister are asked: are there any underlying documents? You knew that. After all, you used them for that memo you made on behalf of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u924	No, no. Look, as Secretary of State myself, I get notes and memos and they're not on tables, because they're just above that that they're directed at me. Conversely, I have no knowledge of the flow of pieces that goes to the negotiators. That's really beyond me. It's neat, and it's supposed to be. And I just explained that I don't consider a party input to be a formation memo or a formation piece. So I couldn't judge whether the memories that existed here and there were very different from what was really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u925	You didn't let me finish, I say, through you, Mr. Chairman. You point out: I took advantage of all those memos during the writing of that party piece, because I knew they were there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u926	But, Mr. Chairman, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u927	No, wait a minute. You will see that there is talk of this dividend tax three times here and at a hearing, because that is one of the most important points the opposition opposes. We are doing this because the documents simply do not show what the basis is for giving away that 1.4 billion taxpayers' money to two or three companies. You will see that all these difficult questions are coming and that at some point our Prime Minister is wandering in good faith. Has there ever been a time when you thought "I'm gonna whisper that to him"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u928	That question was also raised by Mrs Marijnissen at the start of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u929	Mr Azarkan is making a mistake, because I do not see him failing. Because I don't know what's on that table. At least I know that the stuff I have as Secretary of State is not on the table there. I only know parts that I'm sure aren't there. I don't know what it is, and it's supposed to be!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u930	I was told by Henk Nijboer, who was rightly congratulated in the newspapers because he knows all those pieces by heart, that this line of thinking about linking gas to dividend tax was not given by a third party but by Mr Wiebes himself. It comes from the piece he made himself and that makes it even more curious that that sentence has come into play. I would ask him to explain that more than 'it is a line of thought that has not been used'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u931	But it's a thought line that hasn't been used. Now that I know more about the gas file, it's also a doomed thoughtline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u932	Then what was the line of thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u933	There is no reciprocity, but there are all kinds of activities that top holding companies undertake. You can think about how to raise the revenue for the State. Investment leads to higher revenues from the State, as does all kinds of other activities. I mentioned this, but I soon realized that this was a little useful suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u934	So I understand that in your previous position you gave a difficult line of thought to the Prime Minister, namely to abolish the dividend tax...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u935	Not in reciprocity!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u936	Not in reciprocity, but in connection with that, because in the same memo it says: there is an increase in the revenue from gas extraction. That's the line of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u937	And soon that turned out to be a little useful thinkline. In any case, the extraction was already on its way back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u938	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u939	I know that now. I would have advised myself otherwise, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u940	I shall now give the floor to the Prime Minister, because he still owes Mr Klaver an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u941	About the WOB. Once again I immediately admit that I really understood myself as a civil servant, because I am not so expert in this manual. I have been informed that the manual is based on informing the Chamber of the documents provided in the decision on request. So the pieces that are released and not in the event of a rejection. So Mr Klaver's explanation is not as the guide is intended and applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u942	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the first term on the part of the government. I actually want to move on to the second term. A brief suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u943	One minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u944	Me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u945	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u946	Mr President, I thought we already passed it on. My group needs a longer suspension in order to be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u947	That's right, but if there's a need for a long suspension, it just needs to be done publicly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u948	I understand that the coalition would like to attend our group meeting and receive the underlying memos. No problem at all. They're very welcome. But my proposal is this: I would like to suspend for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u949	45 minutes suspension. I'll take a look around. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u950	Mr President, we would like an hour too, but I think it will work in the 45 minutes that Klaver asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u951	I'll see if there's any objection. Is half an hour okay, like some kind of compromise? When I look at the faces in the room like that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u952	Mr President, my group would like to have a moment to look carefully at what has resulted in this debate and how we proceed with it. I'm asking for room for that. If the colleagues don't want to give it, they don't want to give it, but they want to give it that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u953	Fine. No one has any objection to suspending 45 minutes? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u954	We will continue with the debate on documents relating to dividend taxation. The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u955	Mr. Chairman. We have had an intrusive debate today on the dividend tax and on the memos that were released last night. Those memos give a pretty shaky picture. They give an idea of how the decision-making process has been carried out on the issue of EUR 1.4 billion. It shows that the lobby of big business has worked. The VVD itself wrote a memo to convert the wishes of these large multinationals into policies, namely that EUR 1.4 billion will go to foreign tax administrations. That is money that we cannot spend in the Netherlands, cannot invest in healthcare and cannot invest in education. But it shows something else. It also shows that the way in which the Lower House has been informed is not possible. That starts with the debate in November, in which we have repeatedly asked 23 times, it has been said many times, if there are any memos. It was then replied that that is not the case, that there is no reminder of that. And then there were several moments when the Prime Minister was able to correct that mistake. He himself admitted that he should have been looking for those memos but he didn't. The moment when it became clear through a WOB request that those memos were there, was the second moment when he should have actively informed the Chamber himself. That brings us to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[rejects the Prime Minister's conduct;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Wilders, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Krol, Mr Azarkan and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u956	Mr. Chairman. The truth has not been told about the documents relating to the abolition of the dividend tax. I am very much inclined to do so because it is a big decision, because it is a controversial decision and because there were reasonable doubts as to whether it is a sensible decision. The Prime Minister is responsible for this. He told a falsehood, and he didn't correct that mistake in the six months after that. Why is that so important? Because it's about trust. Trust that also about difficult decisions and even if it is not convenient, not only the Chamber but also the Dutch people will be informed fairly. You need to be able to trust that fair communication is about pros and cons. Mr. Chairman. In the debate tonight, the Prime Minister has not succeeded in convincing us that it has gone unwittingly. He has not succeeded, with his reasoning of top of mind, loss of memory and so on, in convincing us that he can be credible in this file and in other files. That is extremely serious. At the end of his speech, what the Prime Minister called a "loose end" is essentially about the core of parliamentary democracy: whether the Chamber or the Dutch people are properly informed about important issues. The Labour Party cannot, now that the Prime Minister has managed to give a convincing answer to that, but only conclude that confidence is gone and support the motion that Mr Klaver just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u957	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u958	Mr. Chairman. This evening I was here for the second time in the capacity of group chairman in a debate with the Prime Minister. And for the second time, it was about his credibility. And for the second time, the image was debugging. The Prime Minister could, of course, have chosen to go into this debate with the honest story. He could have said: I am a puppet of multinationals; Shell and Unilever want this and that is why I think it is important. That was the honest story. In November, there were hours of debate on documents, supporting the abolition of dividend taxation. The Prime Minister had no memory of it; the documents were there. Mr. Chairman. Whether it was in the debate on the Tevendeal, whether it was in the debate on the lie of Minister Zijlstra, which our Prime Minister called "no political mortal sin," or whether it is in a debate tonight on abolishing dividend taxes, time and time again it appears that the truth for our Prime Minister is only an option and the lie is only a problem when it comes to the newspaper. Mr. Chairman. That leads us to deal with recidivist Rutte and the confidence in our Prime Minister is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u959	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u960	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. I am convinced that my name and therefore that of the PVV Group will be subject to Mr Klaver's motion of censure. I would also like to say to the Prime Minister that, apart from the SGP, there's a whole opposition that you don't approve of. That's not common. That doesn't happen every year. That doesn't happen every cabinet period. We will still have to see whether the motion is adopted, but if that is not the case, this Prime Minister will be severely damaged in the political sense this evening. And that's right. Because the Prime Minister deserves that motion like no other. He couldn't convince anyone for a second tonight. His turn of events, his excuses, his excuses are politics, and certainly a prime minister, unworthy. They can't hide the fact that he set things up by denying that there were other memos with shady word games and by a timetable that, in fact, I asked for it 100 times in the event of interruption, was sent to the Chamber by the Prime Minister himself. It said that a memo would be discussed at the main table. But after 50 questions by my colleague from the SP and myself, he simply refuses to answer that. In all these years, I've never actually seen a prime minister do that. If the Chamber hadn't gone through with it, if there hadn't been a WOB request, and if it hadn't been published by a newspaper, Trouw in this case, we would never have known that the Prime Minister had cheated and that there were other memos. Madam President. Let me conclude by saying to the Prime Minister that your actions in this matter have once again served the credibility of politics. It is up to you to know that you are doing this with your own credibility, but you have not served the credibility of politics here either. I really blame you for that. So it's time you quit and don't come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u961	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u962	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. This debate has rightly been extended today. The conclusion of the SGP Group is that the information provided by the Prime Minister to the Chamber should have been better. On the basis of their own recollection, the impression has been given that memos on the abolition of the dividend tax did not exist when they turned out to be there. That was at least very confusing and a fertile breeding ground for mistrust. The Prime Minister has admitted that after the November debate it would have been good to actively refresh memory and to check whether those documents were not there. If that had happened, this could also have prevented confusion. Madam President. How are we supposed to weigh this politically? As a SGP group, we found it fair to use a strict measure: what would have happened if it had gone well from the beginning? Our answer is that the Prime Minister's reply would have been from the outset: we do not make any announcements about the existence of confidential memos in the formation talks, because that is the way the rules of the formation process are. In this context, my group considers, weighing up everything, a motion of censure or a motion of censure, as expressed by some parties, really a bridge too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u963	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u964	Thank you, Mr President. A citizen who took part in the debate reminded us of what the Prime Minister had said in the debate on the declaration of government. Those were fine words: politics must be about the Netherlands and must be there for Dutch people, all Dutch people. For the time being, I am counting three who are served by abolishing the dividend tax: Unilever's top man, Shell's top man and Prime Minister Rutte, who wanted this very much. The shadowy manner in which this contested measure was incorporated into the government agreement does not reflect the promise made by the Prime Minister towards all the citizens of this country and to their representatives here in the Chamber. The way in which a deception strategy has been actively used is, once again, a serious insult to those citizens and to the representatives of the citizens here in the Chamber. That is why the Animal Party attaches great importance to rejecting this course of action, because we are tired of the government under the leadership of the Prime Minister who thinks that the Chamber should always be put on the wrong foot, so that we should run after it to hear, watch, dig and debate exactly what was the truth. We do have more important things to do in the interests of those citizens that the Prime Minister himself claims to represent. We have major problems to solve and we have been sitting here all day because the Prime Minister has chosen to pursue a useful strategy of speech. "I had no memory of it." What a fuss. The Prime Minister can either improve his life tonight and inform the Chamber fairly and completely and non-misleadingly, or quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u965	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u966	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for answering the questions. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have taken part in the debate and the other Members who have enjoyed this debate very much. After such a debate, you ask yourself: what did this result in? The group of DENK has always had doubts about the effectiveness of the dividend tax for the locational environment and the balancing framework of companies to settle in the Netherlands. After reading the memos and again this debate we are sure that it is not a good decision. That money should have been used to solve the shortage of teachers, the people living in poverty in the Netherlands and those with disabilities who have to work under the minimum wage of this cabinet. But this debate was not about that. It was essentially about the credibility of politics. And once again it suffered a great dent, again due to the VVD. After the Teevendeal, the drama with Van der Steur and Zijlstra's lie, this is a huge dent in the credibility of parliamentary democracy, by the actions of the Prime Minister in particular. We very much regret that. That is why we have voted in favour of the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u967	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u968	Madam President. Of course, the messiness and clumsiness I mentioned in the first term did not disappear after this debate. But any doubt has disappeared for us. Is that all easy to explain now? No, it's not, but we believe and trust the Prime Minister's explanation. The Prime Minister stated that he was wrong to suggest that there were no other documents on dividend taxation at all. That suggestion didn't make any sense. However, we are convinced that at that time he reported this in good faith on the basis of what he thought at the time. We also found that the documents released should not have been included in the formation file. The Prime Minister also realized that after the debate on 15 November, he would have been better able to ask actively whether others might have known that there were documents and that the Chamber should have been informed if they had been found. Could things have been better? Oh, yeah, yeah, The fog would have been avoided by keeping tighter to the distinction "in the formation file" in the previous debate. And if they do not belong, they are irrelevant, as Mr Van der Staaij said in his speech. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. My group believes that it would be wise, and I said it in the first period too, to avoid these situations in the future and also to look more broadly at whether the agreements that exist and have actually been implicitly extended still have the right balance between transparency and the necessary confidentiality of negotiations. We trust that this debate and what has been exchanged on this subject will also be taken into account in the evaluation of the last formation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u969	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, to the ministers. The debate was about credibility. If there was, the question is whether it has increased. The question that remains is: what good is it for the citizen? I keep thinking about the people in welfare. If such a citizen does not remember certain documents, he will be brought to justice very soon and will be able to repay everything with a 100% fine. But this Prime Minister still insists that he had no memory whatsoever. Abolishing the dividend tax is a huge gift for multinationals. That has nothing to do with the Brexit. If that were the case, our neighbouring countries would have done away with it. All money that now disappears elsewhere and that we could have used so much better in our own country. The abolition of the dividend tax should be removed as far as 50PLUS is concerned. Finally. Could the Prime Minister really not have shown an ounce of humility and, for the people at home, could he have acknowledged that his actions on the provision of information on dividend taxation could really have been better and should have been better? That is why we have co-signed the motion of censure with conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u971	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u972	Madam President. What we have been through this afternoon and this evening is a very serious debate after yesterday's documents on dividend taxation have been made public. Not because it should have been formal, but because there has been an atmosphere in the file in which when you say that you can no longer remember a particular document, the result is that you feel that something is not right. That is why the debate was held, which was a sharp debate. The accusations on the part of the opposition parties were harsh. The coalition must not blame the opposition for this. The Prime Minister has also charged himself with this, and that is important. Hopefully it's a starter moment, too. From now on, let us not talk about who saw what documents when, but about the content of a measure. We can have a fierce debate on this, but the CDA is very motivated to do so. The abolition of dividend taxation is a measure on which there are still a great deal of political differences, and it is extremely good that we are going to have a debate on this in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u973	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u974	Madam President. There was unrest about the existence or non-existence of memos. Several key players here, including myself, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs, were partly responsible for this. That is why it is good that the debate has taken place. It's a good thing the pieces were brought out, as an exception. I would like to thank the two leaders for their explanation and also for their recognition that mistakes have been made. I think that's beneficial. I hope that's beneficial. This way we can learn lessons, so we can learn lessons from this and move on, including me. The very concrete recommendation, the concrete outcome of this debate, is that we look at what belongs in the formation dossier and what does not belong in it. In the evaluation of the Chamber and the reflection of the Cabinet on it, there will be scope to examine the extent to which ministries are at the service of information to the formation. Finally. The only thing I am committed to in the opposition's motion of censure, where it is not entirely clear whether it is a motion of censure or a motion of censure, is the final sentence. Let's move on to the order of the day. And that's not just pretending nothing happened. No, a lot's happened. There has been an intensive debate, but let's find where we can work together to do the right thing for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u975	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u976	Madam President. I would also like to thank the two leaders on behalf of my group for coming to the Chamber. That was necessary, too. In recent days, especially after 15 November, there has been some confusion about the whole process of abolishing dividend taxation. It is important that I have also indicated this afternoon in my first term, also in response to reactions that, if we in the Chamber want clarity about this, we should check very closely. Mr. Chairman. I have also indicated in my first term that, of course, I have also looked at how, in future, more clarity can be achieved in this whole confusion about what is in the information file and what is not. Also in terms of terminology: what exactly is a memo, what exactly is an official piece, what is a party vision? As far as I am concerned, all this needs to be clarified. We have not come, perhaps a little indirectly, to the importance of this measure in terms of the overall locational environment. I am sure we will discuss this further. Both rulers have also indicated how they look back on their own roles. I appreciate that very much. I'd have asked about that, too. The Prime Minister did. He is also willing to think about the future, from his experience of evaluating what has happened here and how we could take it up as a Chamber. I would also like to thank Minister Wiebes in particular, because I also asked him to look closely at the confusion surrounding his role. I think he has given us an honest answer. Mr President, that means that an evaluation of this process is certainly important and that this debate has not been for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u977	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u978	Western civilization has been able to take such an enormous flight, for we, unlike many other cultures, have always put the inner development of conscience at the centre. From Augustine onwards, Christian philosophy focuses on the idea that lying, speaking the truth and so on are important not only to achieve something in the afterlife, but above all to fully develop your humanity. I think that is why we all rightly attach such importance here to the question of whether the truth has been spoken. Of course, the country's interest is at stake and the question is whether or not the measures it intends to take are in the general interest or in the name of a particular sub-interest. But our integrity as a representative of the people is also at stake and our integrity as a human being. That is why I find it extremely disappointing that the SGP does not want to have any impact on our Prime Minister's evidently lying behaviour tonight and in recent months. In addition to the motion of censure, I would like to table a second motion tonight. That motion is based on the policy itself. We have seen that the way in which this reprehensible policy has been implemented is very dubious, but let us not forget that it is ultimately about the marbles and not about the game, that it is ultimately about what people in the Netherlands have to say about this. They not only have an interest in ideological or philosophical sharpening about the process and whether or not the truth has been spoken, but also in reversing error policies in the name of certain minor interests. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, calls on the government not to implement the planned annual 1.4 billion relief for foreign investors in the form of the abolition of the dividend tax and, on the other hand, to allow this money to benefit the inhabitants of the Netherlands, and moves to the daily order of things. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 60 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u979	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u980	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u981	Thank you, Mr President. There have been a few very harsh words just dropped: "falseness," "active deception strategy," "evidently lying." I sincerely believe that these labels are not justified, given that the defence sides are also the cabinet in this debate. That doesn't change the fact that things didn't go well. I mentioned them in the debate. It started with the error in the debate. We shouldn't have speculated about whether there are any pieces. That had to do with the fact that it gave the impression that those pieces were not there either. This certainly has to do with the fact that, right after the debate, I did not bother to see if the memory was also formed by what was actually found in files. There is no doubt that this has led to a situation that is not clear. But, again, I disagree with the heavy qualifications. I also disagree with the first motion. That'll be obvious. I would also advise against the second motion, referring to the many debates we have already had on dividend taxation. That is Mr Baudet's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u982	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-7.u983	Then I'll see if anyone would mind if we could vote right after this. Then I'll suspend for a few moments and then we'll vote.
