ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks. She has questions to the Minister of Justice and Security about the report that Justice would have investigated phone records from a journalist about leaking a mayoral designation. I apologise to the people who follow Question Time for the fact that I understand the sound at the beginning of Question Time was not on. I'm really sorry about that. That was not pleasant either for Mr Pechtold or the Prime Minister. Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday it was announced that the call details of a journalist from the Brabants Dagblad were requested by the Public Prosecutor's Office. This happened during an investigation into the leaking of the appointment procedure for the new mayor of Den Bosch. It was only after all the fuss that the State's Attorney's Office admitted to East Brabant that the request for this information might have been in breach of the law. 30 minutes ago, a message from the Algemeen Dagblad showed that it is even crazier: this journalist was also bugged. GroenLinks is very concerned about this process, because the journalist has the constitutional right to protect his or her sources. That is one of the foundations of freedom of the press. Only in exceptional cases can the government decide to use criminal coercive measures against a journalist. But there are no human lives in danger here. Nor was there a national disaster. This was a mayor's appointment. We therefore have a number of questions for the Minister. How did this happen? Who authorized this? What consequences does this course of action have for the further conduct of the criminal case? How does the Minister prevent this from ever happening again? What does the Minister think about even being bugged? What is the impact of this mode of action on the work of journalists and whistleblowers? Can journalists still provide adequate protection for their sources?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Source protection for journalists is a great asset in our democratic society. Journalists must be free to do their work. That is why the bill that I discussed with the Chamber in February, and which was adopted here and is now in the First Chamber, provides for an explicit test by the Judge Commissioner on this kind of coercive means in a situation where a journalist, or even a publicist, is even more involved. The current policy is based on the case law of the European Court of Human Rights laid down in the Designation of the use of coercive means against journalists of the Public Prosecutor. That policy of the D.A.'s office contains a three-stage missile. One: the district attorney submits the intention to apply the coercive measure in question to the public prosecutor's office. Two: the prosecutor's office authorizes the use of the coercive measure, but at the same time informs the College of Attorneys General. Forced drugs against a journalist can only be used if it is the only conceivable effective means of detecting and preventing a very serious crime involving life-threatening elements. MP Westerveld rightly cited that. I would like to make it quite clear once again: it must be a crime that could seriously harm or endanger people's lives, safety or health. In the meantime, the prosecution itself has declared that there has been a failure to act in accordance with the rules and is also taking measures to prevent this from happening in the future. A meeting took place today between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Brabants Dagblad, in which the Public Prosecutor explained the non-compliance with the rules. I think it is also the right step to have been taken by the editors of the newspaper in question. Again, source protection is a real asset for journalists. Then I'll come to your questions. How did this happen? I can only say that the rules that are here have simply not been complied with, as the D.A. states. I think that we should conclude that with each other as well and make a short deal of it. Then comes the point of eavesdropping. I think it would be best if I just made it clear from the press release issued by the prosecution following the discussion with the Brabants Dagblad that the prosecution also said that that order against the defendant, which was, by the way, submitted to the judge-supervisor, saw at a conversation he was supposed to have with that journalist. You could say that this is not formally a means of coercion against a journalist. But materially this affects the journalismal news garage. In that light, we should have abandoned the means of detection. That's what the state's attorney's office says. I agree with the state's attorney's office 100%. In that situation where you know there's going to be a conversation with a journalist, you shouldn't use that tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	I should also like to say that the members of the government are supposed to keep to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am pleased that the Minister is aware of the seriousness of this incident, but I think he leaves some room for repetition. GroenLinks wants to make it clear to journalists and their sources that they can't just get the Public Prosecutor's Office to do their job while they're just doing their job. Source protection is a great asset, because without the press there is no independent control over public administration. I still have a few questions for the Minister. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Minister acknowledges that if this criminal case were to be continued as if nothing were wrong, source protection would be a dead letter. So the question is also: what does the Minister think about this? Does the Minister intend today to send a signal that, as far as he is concerned, violations of journalistic privileges must lead to the exclusion of illegally obtained evidence? Or does he think this criminal case could just be continued? In other words, what are the consequences? Mr. Chairman. There is indeed a bill in the First Chamber on journalistic source protection in criminal matters. To what extent does this bill provide sufficient protection for journalists? The NVJ has insisted that this bill be dealt with quickly. I understand there is still awaiting a response from the Ministry. I would ask the Minister to make haste so that this bill can be dealt with quickly in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	To begin with, I believe that this proposal will indeed be dealt with in the Chamber in the foreseeable future and that the response is in any case already in draft form. Then I'll come to your other questions. Or, if so, how a criminal case is decided, you will never hear me say anything about it. That is why I have made it very clear today how I view source protection as a right of freedom and I have also made it clear that the Public Prosecutor himself clearly stated that this should not have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	It still has something strange: while the legislator is trying to protect journalistic privilege better, in the meantime, source protection is being trampled on. That is why I ask the Minister what the consequences are. I would like to put two more brief questions to the Minister. The first is: can the new law guarantee that this scenario, which we saw last weekend, will not happen again? The second is: can the Minister say anything about the logical consequences for the further conduct of the criminal case as far as he is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	I have already said it at first, but I will repeat it again, because it is good to emphasise it. The Public Prosecutor is currently taking measures to tighten up his own corporate rules so that this kind of situation will not be avoided in the future. Furthermore, the new law will carry out a test by the Judge Commissioner, which in any case always requires a judge to assess whether it is a situation that is serious enough in the circumstances. And, again, I should never say anything about the case itself, because that can always affect one side or the other in the course of justice. No one would want that. But I have spoken clearly and in principle about the protection of resources. I hope you can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	This was a really crazy case last week. Today, as Mrs Westerveld rightly said, it became even crazier when it appeared that it was also tried to listen to the journalist. And then I read in the press a quote from the chief officer in Den Bosch: "That's why we are very happy afterwards that it didn't work out." Then I wonder what the hell is going on that's gonna make the Public Prosecutor, who just has to act according to the clue, actually find out that something absolutely impossible has happened. Can the Minister explain to me what's going on at the D.A.'s office that could make this kind of mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	Let me say first of all that the way in which the Public Prosecutor's Office has now emerged shows that it is said out loud that this should not have happened. I think that's very important. Not only does it say that this should not have been done in this case, but it also explicitly states in public how it should be done in the future. At the moment, this gives me sufficient confidence that the prosecution will really tighten up the rules and apply them properly. We're gonna get the new law, and there's always a role for the judge commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	Freedom of the press is essential to our democracy. Source protection is again an essential part of this. Exceptions can only be made in cases of threats to state security and the prevention of serious crimes that are about to be committed. That is why it is absolutely right for the Minister to say that what has happened here is absolutely wrong. That is a fundamental answer. But it's also a practical answer. This error has obviously taken many steps: if I can believe the press, a lot of people have made this mistake one after the other. What else can the Minister do in practical terms? Can he talk to all those people, or ask that all these people be spoken to, and make sure that this answer is shared much wider, even before that law is passed by the Upper House?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	The problem is, I think, here is that not all steps of that three-stage missile have been followed. That's what the State's Attorney's Office said on Friday. There you can see that things are not going well, because I fully agree with Mr Koopmans that in this kind of situation you should have a good double check on what you are going to do. I understand from the public prosecutor's intention that these rules should be tightened up and that this double check should be made more explicit and clearer. I would also like to assure you that I will see to it. In fact, I think this is so important that I would like to return to your Chamber in a letter to show you how she did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	Check and double-check, that sounds very nice, of course, but it starts with the fact that this extremely basic knowledge about source protection has apparently not been properly applied within the Public Prosecutor's Office. The minister says that the D.A. admits her error in a court of law, but the D.A. later states in two sentences in a statement that the search team considered that the data was necessary and that it acted in the professional sense that this serious fact, breach of the secrecy of the office, had to be resolved. So where the minister may be convinced that the prosecution has learned from this, the SP is not quite so. Would the Minister like to talk to the State's Attorney's Office to make sure once again that this can't happen again? This source protection for journalists is too important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	Well, I told you the D.A. has announced it's gonna tighten the rules. I have said that I would like to return to that in a letter to show you that this has happened. In this context, I would also like to make a firm commitment that I will certainly speak to the public prosecutor before that letter, or perhaps at the time of the delivery of that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	The Public Prosecutor's Office has been doing a lot of work lately, because, apart from this issue, there is also the famous integrity issue around the state's attorney's summit. Mr Groothuizen and I have asked questions about this. Mr Groothuizen has just been told that the answers are being postponed. I asked for an answer in a week. I would be particularly grateful if the Minister could comment on when he informs the Chamber of what is going on at the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	The answers to Mr Van Dam and Mr Groothuizen's questions are good this week at the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you.
