ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to turn to Mrs Van Weerdenburg's last question, on behalf of the PVV Group, to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I would also like to welcome her. The question is about sex parties that Oxfam employees would have organised in Haiti with aid money. I call Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday in De Telegraaf there was a disgusting report about the development aid industry. Aid workers Oxfam committed serious sexual abuse in Haiti in 2011. They seem to have hired a capital villa with help money, where sex parties were organized with prostitutes, with some girls possibly even underage. After this message more revelations followed in various media. For example, there would have been sexual misconduct by Oxfam employees in Chad in 2006. Those responsible at Oxfam knew about the extreme abuses, but did not mention them in detail in order not to harm the image of their organization. The British Charity Commission was deceived, and the perpetrators of this horrible abuse in Haiti were given the opportunity to leave quietly. They were not put in the way of work elsewhere in industry. Mr. Chairman. To what extent was the Ministry aware of the alleged misconduct of Oxfam employees in Chad and Haiti? What signals have been received about abuses, and what action has been taken on them? Given the statement on Oxfam Novib's website, after the misconduct in Haiti came to light, the Dutch branch's top was also informed. Has the Dutch branch of Oxfam made any mention of this to the Dutch government? If not, what is the consequence of this? What does it say about those responsible for this organisation if they consider image damage of their own organisation more important than the well-being of vulnerable underage girls in Haiti, I ask the Minister? Do you agree with the PVV that such managers should be fired immediately? And if not, why not? The reactions of experts from the aid industry and people from the field are also unheard of. They're not surprised. They say that it is not incidents, that it is much more common, and that this abuse case in Haiti is not isolated, but is inherent in the aid industry. Can the Minister elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Madam President. These are very legitimate questions that have been asked. I am, of course, very shocked with you, all of you, about this report, which now seems to bring to light even more obvious or alleged facts, even within Oxfam Great Britain, because that is what we are talking about in England itself. It's unacceptable. Integrity violations, violations of rights, and sexual abuse of women, girls or children are totally unacceptable. We also immediately asked for a clear, clear looking letter from Oxfam Novib himself. I just got it. He's pretty detailed. These cases go back to the period 2011-2012. I would like to return to the Chamber in writing on some of the details in this letter, because I received it just ten minutes ago. But I want to say three things. As it goes back a period, I myself have made a request within the Ministry for all documents, all steps and all information made available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade and OS. I want to know what's been reported, what's been discussed, and what possible consequences there are or aren't. I look at this not only on the basis of this information, but also in the knowledge that in this case it is mainly about OS partners, because these are the partners with whom I or my ministry conclude contracts. Integrity protocols should cover not only fraud and misuse of money, but also behaviour, the risk of abuse, sexual abuse, intimidation and bullying. It's a whole range of misbehavior that can clearly take place. As far as I am concerned, these protocols will be put forward as a suggestion; we will of course return to this in the policy framework, of course, with all the contracts and agreements we conclude with any organisation. It is a policy of zero tolerance. This has been observed recently within the UN, especially in the framework of peacekeeping missions. A number of well-known cases of sexual abuse have also been raised. I think it is very important for the Netherlands to include this in its leading role. It's a matter of ethics. It is a question of requirements and standards. It is also a question of prevention in this case. As far as possible legal proceedings in this particular case are concerned, I must first look at the whole situation. For that we have to go back to the archives, I have to say quite honestly. The documentation is not available digitally at the moment, so colleagues have already gone to the archives to look at this case. When it comes to legal follow-up, it must be made very clear that the organisation should normally expect legal prosecution to take place in the country where the crime took place. But of course there is always a matter of due process. I don't want to anticipate that. I want to take this into account in its integrality, because it is not only reprehensible, it is also very worrying. It is not only the confidence of the people in need that is being abused here. It is also about taxpayers' confidence in everyone to whom this money is given: organisations, individuals and, of course, ministries. We are in favour of guarding and guarding. We may not be able to prevent everything, but of course we need to be even tighter and better in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	I would like to hear from the Minister at what time we can see that letter and how long it takes the staff to go through the archives. This is Friday's news. So they've had the whole weekend to look into that, I guess. Let's talk about these protocols or codes of conduct. These aren't things you have to put in a code of conduct, are you? You don't have to record that you can't abuse girls and children, do you? Do we have to put in that too that you can't kill people? This is about normal decency and something about which there is legislation, including in Haiti. This is just a crime. That so-called good people who feel so protected by their humanitarian Oxfamlogo, apparently has the idea that they can make anything and do not have to comply with the law. I do not think that will be prevented by a code of conduct or protocol either. Does the Minister agree with the PVV that people who abuse their position in such a disgusting way, at the expense of vulnerable girls and children, should be banned from working so that they can never work in the aid industry again? What possibilities does the Minister see for this? The British government and the European Union are considering stopping their financial aid to Oxfam. Is the Minister prepared to set a good example to them by turning the subsidy tap to Oxfam firmly? Today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	As far as the weekend is concerned, colleagues are working on it. Like I said, our archives aren't that easy and we're going back six or seven years. I must remind you that the ministry also moved a few months ago. So it's not as easy as Mrs Van Weerdenburg might think. That letter comes in the short term; I think within a week. I would like to send a careful letter to ensure that we can take all the elements with us. I have contacted my British colleague today to discuss how we can work together at EU level, both towards the Commission and towards Member States that are putting away significant amounts of development funds, and how we can set new standards on a global scale in the best, systematic way. Regarding Oxfam's financing, you must distinguish between Oxfam Novib and Oxfam Great Britain. I do not want to anticipate a complete understanding of the facts and the follow-up steps. I think that is when the question of financing and amending is raised. That is not the case this week. Then I would punish before I fully understand the facts regarding the Dutch branch. I propose that, with the permission of Mrs Farah Karimi of Novib, I also send the letter, which has just been sent to me, to the public with all the documentation. Secondly, I think that Oxfam Novib is what we're talking about now, the Netherlands has put this on their own website. With regard to a professional ban, I should seek legal advice. My emotional reaction would be "yes," but we need to think carefully about how feasible that is, so that we do not allow people who may have been falsely accused to be indirectly victimized. A good judicial process is just as important and more important if we really want to help the victims. With your last point, you're absolutely right. You'd say that everyone knows on their own what's right, what's right, what's wrong, what's wrong. But we also have an Ombudsman in the Netherlands, for example, where issues of sexual harassment and other issues can be raised. This is happening everywhere, including in the Netherlands. Prevention is very important. It is also very important to set clear standards. And, of course, it's just as important to follow that up. What I'm saying today is that I'm taking it very seriously. We talked about this this morning, too. I am also going to look at how we can be stronger, sharper and better aware of this within the government itself with other colleagues, for example with Mr Grapperhaus who was here just now. We must set an example ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	Last words, Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yes, Chairman, closing. It is really crazy for words that the Netherlands, using taxpayers' money, will continue to finance your taxpayers' money, I say to the public in the gallery. There is only one way for the PVV to respond adequately: the predators who have committed this abuse of power and sexual abuse must be given immediate lock-up and a life-long ban to get close to vulnerable groups such as children. All directors, executives and others at Oxfam who chose to put their own interests first and who preferred the prevention of image damage rather than the disclosure of these abuses, are also complicit in any abuse that may have occurred afterwards and must be immediately dismissed. Finally, we need to turn off the subsidy tap for this kind of organisation, today!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	I didn't hear a question. It was a comment, so I'm sticking to my last speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. I saw three MPs stand by the interrupting microphone at the same time. I'll start with Mrs. Chicken. Is that okay with you, Mr. Bouali? That is the case, so Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	It is, of course, disgusting that people in organisations who have to help and have a certain level of confidence abuse girls. They're violating trust there and here too: sex in exchange for help. I've already heard the Minister about looking back at the cases to see what happened. But of course it's much wider. We now hear stories about other areas and perhaps other organisations. How does the Minister view this? How's she gonna investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	Any case that is brought to our attention or that we see ourselves, of course, we are going to look at immediately. I have also spoken deliberately about protocols and about policy improvement. Where possible, there should be much more active monitoring. That will not happen, but that is a very important means. Secondly, with the humanitarian community, I am going to look at how we can designate an ombudsperson on a structural basis for countries where great aid is being provided and perhaps for other countries like this too. This must be done in each country, so that victims or people who know that there may be victims can hang on to the big clock and then take action. Without knowing that, of course, it's much harder to do anything. In such cases, the burden of proof is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	That's right, it's totally unacceptable. The Minister said this. It is good to hear that the Minister has taken immediate action. My specific question focuses on the role of Oxfam Novib. You mentioned Oxfam VK. Can you zoom in on the role of Oxfam Novib in this particular case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	Oxfam Novib himself has financed a number of Oxfam UK programmes in Haiti. There were no Dutch employees present. Oxfam Novib informed the Ministry in good time in accordance with the time period. But what I said is that I have a lot of information from Oxfam Novib. It is part of my duty and duty to bring in the many other documents that are available to see whether there are gaps or no steps have been taken, and to take them directly into an improvement process. Oxfam Novib's letter also shows the number of comprehensive measures taken since 2012, by Oxfam Novib itself, in the form of trainings, manuals, complaint notification procedures, that option of complaint notification is incredibly important and leadership training. You can also say that evil is in man and that you may not be training it out, but I know from my own experience in humanitarian operations that in a protective culture and as more people are trained, as there is a complaint procedure, as there is a hotline, as there are sanctions, directly measurable and immediately on this type of behavior, the risk that it will take place to an increasing extent, is significantly reduced. But prevention, including in the Netherlands, is not 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the Minister does not dismiss this as an incident, but is deeply digging with the development sector to see what can be improved in order to perhaps avoid this type of thing in the broad sense. The minister says she'll come up with protocols. The VVD's question is whether, if you require development organisations to report these kinds of incidents and they report them, they are finally willing to recover the money or cut down on these kinds of organizations, in order to end up having consequences with these kinds of protocols?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u18	The answer is yes. Thank you for the recurring question. On the one hand, I'm talking about protocols, protocols are for internal behavior, but I also want to deal with it in contracts. I've reported that before. Without it in a contract, I can't speak of breach of contract. I have to include this kind of behavior in the contract. Numbers must be proven and then it is a question of breach of contract. Based on breach of contract, you can also recover money. If this does not exist in the current agreements, it is much more difficult to obtain recovery. So I look at the large scale and the future, but with you, Madam President, I am extremely indignant. I can only hold my anger, because this is about the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too share the anger that the Minister can only just hold in. Of course, this is out of bounds. I would therefore like to thank the honourable Member for asking these questions. I think it is important, also for the sector itself and for the credibility of the sector itself, to make this as firm as possible. I ask the Minister, precisely in the interest of the humanitarian aid sector, whether she is prepared to hold a wide-ranging discussion in the Netherlands with the Dutch field as well, and not just to look at those protocols, which I wholeheartedly support, but also at a broader discussion about a cultural change in which the safety of women and girls is at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u21	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Madam President. This is a very useful suggestion. Of course, yes, because this is what we do together. It must also be said, of course, that in the silence where there are no scandals, a lot of people still do a great deal of good work, save lives, save women's lives, save girls. There are always a few who ruin it for the majority. So let us continue to look at this in perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr. Chairman. It is precisely to emphasise the importance of the latter, but above all to make it clear that aid money is not intended for this purpose, that sexual transversal behaviour is unacceptable and that it is evident that this has now been done out of a culture of impunity, I would like to hear from the Minister whether she can tell us, and perhaps not now, what this is about with the Dutch aid organisations that we are financing. What additional measures may be taken to penalise people who are guilty of this crime, even though it must of course be tried to prevent it, and above all: what financial consequences can it have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u25	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I cannot now state in detail the state of play in the Dutch sector. This requires better analysis and broader understanding. But it is also a first step and a commitment on my part to pick it up now and extend it widely; indeed, a follow-up programme from prevention to punishment to counter impunity on all fronts. It cannot be that we have a programme for sexual rights and sexual health and at the same time indirect or direct exploitation of women, girls and boys is being financed de facto.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I thank the Minister. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m., then we shall vote.
