ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	I'm moving on to the next item on the agenda. To this end, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is among us. The Chamber held a written consultation on the Telecoms Council of 4 December 2018 and needs to continue that consultation in plenary. Two members of the Chamber have registered for this purpose. The first speaker is Mr Weverling, member of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and one question. In the written consultation, our group asked questions about foreign influences on digital infrastructure and the potential dangers that it poses. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the auction of 5G frequencies is about to take place and the frameworks and starting points for this are still to be established;]] [[whereas according to the AIVD annual report, China is engaged in espionage activities in the Netherlands and Australia has decided not to use Chinese technology anymore;]] [[Whereas foreign hardware and software could not only be used for sabotage and espionage purposes but could also cause disruption of the Dutch economy and society;]] [[noting that a risk analysis into the vulnerability of the Dutch telecoms network is essential;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate the dependence of foreign technology (hard and software) on current telecom networks and to identify the countries in which Dutch telecom networks are managed and to share the results of this study with the Chamber by May 2019;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss this issue with other Member States..............................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Weverling, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Bromet and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-734]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	Let me ask you a quick question. Yesterday it was announced that the merger between T-Mobile and Tele2 Netherlands could continue. I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to this. That does not need to be done orally now, but it can also be done in a letter. I can imagine that the Secretary of State will deal with the following points. What does approving the merger for the roll-out of 5G mean? What period is the merger actually going to take place? Can the Secretary of State send the Chamber a timeline on this? What are the likely consequences for investment in innovation according to the State Secretary? What are the expected consequences for consumers, as we have three parties left over in the Netherlands? What impact does the ACM's telecom regulation have on this? Is there anything going to change that from the Ministry? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. The second speaker withdrew. That means I'm suspending for a few moments so that the Secretary of State can prepare her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. It is good to see every time what efforts are being made in the public gallery to inform visitors to the Chamber about the progress of events here. Great class. Mr. Chairman. I have been asked to respond in writing to the European Commission's communication on the merger of Tele2 and T-Mobile. Of course. I'll be sure to. I think that before Christmas, the letter could be at the Chamber. What has always been and remains important to me is that there should be sufficient competition and sufficient choice based on price and quality. I am also looking at the news that has come to us from the European Commission regarding the proposed merger. Then the widely supported Weverling c.s. motion, in which the government is asked to investigate the dependence of foreign technology and hardware and software on the current telecommunications networks, to map the countries in which the Dutch networks are managed and to share the research with the Chamber by May 2019. It is good to pay attention to the risks associated with the use of foreign technology, including the vulnerability of these telecommunications networks and, of course, to our society. It's good to pay attention to this. That's what's gonna happen. Telecom operators have a duty of care in order to secure and integrate networks. For the sake of national security, the Cabinet also monitors the security of systems used in telecommunications networks. In that sense, therefore, this motion supports policy. With regard to informing the Chamber, I would, of course, like to point out that such an investigation could include company confidential information or information that might compromise public policy or national security. We cannot therefore share them in public, but I would, of course, like to share that with the Chamber. This also applies to what I said earlier: of course I would like to discuss this issue with Member States of the European Union. The question is whether you should put that "baffle" in a Telecom Council, but perhaps that is just my sport and I will at least make sure that this is discussed with other Member States at the right time. In that sense, therefore, this motion will receive a ruling from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	That's what we were looking for, in your opinion. Thank you, Secretary of State, for coming to the Chamber for this plenary session of the written consultation on the Telecom Council of 4 December. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	The vote on the motion tabled will take place today at the end of the afternoon sitting. After the suspension, the Chamber will continue with the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs and Employment.
