ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the presentation of the accounts for the 2017 state budget. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court, Mr Visser. This morning we had the responsible breakfast in the Old Hall. There were a lot of MPs present. I was wondering where the other half was, but it was in Nieuwspoort offering a book on the lessons of the Rutte II cabinet. So there's a lot of hard work in the Chamber. Welcome. It is already the nineteenth time that on the third Wednesday in May the accountability documents are offered to the House of Representatives. It concerns the annual reports of all ministries and the reports of the General Court. The Court of Auditors is helping us as a Lower House in financial control through its accountability research. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I know my place. As a member of the Rutte III cabinet, I was only responsible for public finances and the Treasury for 67 days last year. The Rutte II cabinet was a missionary cabinet for 225 days. 2017 was a transitional year, so I can only overestimate my influence on last year's state of public finances. Nevertheless, I am very pleased with the good report that I can give you and through you to Members, Mr President. Because the Netherlands was even better in 2017 than the previous cabinet expected when it drew up the 2017 budget. If things are going well in the world, then things are going very well with the Netherlands. But those good figures were mainly due to all those hardworking Dutch people, who started to work in even bigger numbers than in 2016, because last year the Netherlands had even more jobs and fewer unemployed people than a year earlier. This automatically leads to more tax revenues and less public expenditure. But consumption and exports also increased, as did business investment. That, too, is beneficial for the treasury. Eventually, the economy grew by more than 3%. That is a growth that we have not experienced since the crisis, and let me say that it is also rare in this millennium. Mr. Chairman. Last year's milestone was that our government debt fell below the 60% of GDP threshold. Quite well below that limit, because at the end of last year we had a debt of 56.7% of GDP. That's very good news. This means that the burden of Dutch public debt is getting smaller and smaller. This will lead to lower interest rates in the short and long term. Last year, for example, the government paid 3.2 billion less interest rates compared to 2012. 3.2 billion, that's a lot of money! If we reduce that debt, we will have room for other spending and investment in the issues we consider so important: security, education, care, sustainability and climate. All this expenditure, and all this expenditure on other budget lines, we are paying with taxpayers' money, the citizen. So we have to deal with each other thoughtfully, wisely and with integrity. That's just our duty as a politician. Mr. Chairman. In that light, I am pleased to be able to tell you that in 2017, too, more than 99.5% of all expenditure and revenue was lawfully spent and collected. That is an unprecedentedly high percentage in the international context. In the international context, therefore, we are dealing with the taxpayers' money of our citizens in an extremely legitimate way, and that is something that can be said. At the same time, all that good news should not blind us, because in addition to the good investment in our collective facilities that are in the pipeline, a sensible government also builds buffers in good times. I would like to recall that the government debt for the crisis was less than 43% of GDP. It was precisely because of this that the government was able to cope with the worst blows of economic unsavory time. That is the role of the government, a role which it must also play. That's why the government needs buffers. Public debt must therefore continue to fall further in the coming years. That wish has already been achieved by your Chamber through the Council of State, and that wish also exists in a large part of your Chamber, as I noticed in the General Financial Reviews. Then there were two spokesmen in your chamber who quoted King Joseph, the Viceroy of Egypt, who in the good years decided to fill the grain barns. Other spokesmen used a little less biblical terms, but I think they meant the same thing. That is also my express wish, because public debt is not yet at the level of the crisis. I want to be prepared for the moment when all the green signals will suddenly be on red. We know that when that is, it's always a surprise, but sooner or later the economy will be less. Some experts are already seeing the end of the boom. Moreover, the Brexit is at the door and international geopolitical tensions are causing unrest, as are the barriers to trade that are sometimes above the market. Mr. Chairman. The open, volatile, Dutch economy benefits fully from a growing global economy, but is also hit more strongly when things go bad. As soon as the less pleasant times begin, we must be ready. Let that be a lesson of the years of crisis and let that also be the main motto for me in the years to come. Mr. Chairman. It is an honour for me to offer you a financial report of the Empire for the first time, the Financial Report of the Empire 2017. I'd be delighted to do that. I look forward to the debate with your Chamber on this FJR next Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to the President of the General Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	Madam President. Thank you for inviting us to explain our investigation into accountability here. It has indeed become an adult tradition, now the nineteenth time. Let me begin by removing the tension with the Minister of Finance: the General Court approves the national accounts. And indeed, as the Minister has just said, more than 99% of expenditure and revenue is legitimate. That's good news and worth a compliment. Even the final laws are getting better and better. Your Chamber therefore needs to approve less than previously expenditure which was not previously authorised. Less injustices there, worth another compliment. Now the Minister gets restless and thinks: always dangerous, a speech that starts with compliments. In business we encounter almost as many imperfections as last year, namely 35. And as in previous years, a large part of it has been caused by problems with the Tax Administration. Trajectory is there in the delay; again. And it's really gonna be years before this thing gets settled there. Then I would like to draw your attention to two serious shortcomings this year. I'll light one out. During our research we encountered a special problem at the Dutch Caribbean Office. It was about information security. In short, in the field of information security, we found a back door that was unlocked and may have been ajar for a long time. Therefore, for the first time in years, we have objected and given the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations a month to respond. The Minister's response confirms that that back door at the National Authority was indeed ajar for a long time, until we found that out and objected. In the meantime, the Minister has taken measures and closed the door as it were. We have therefore been able to lift our objection. Mr. Chairman. As last year, many of the business problems have to do with this issue of information security. That is a problem this year in nine departments and in the Lower House. Society depends to a large extent on the services of the government. And those services are being organised digitally. This requires a government that has information security in order. Last year, four ministers denied that there were problems. Now none of the ministers do. That is better than last year, because solving a problem always starts with recognising it. We expect information security to be high on the political agenda at a time when digital crime, digital espionage and cyber war are a real risk. Stand still could be deterioration. So those nine shortcomings in the departments indicate a serious problem. Mr. Chairman. That is what the law requires us to formally investigate and formally inform Parliament about: control of legality and investigation into business operations. But the question is whether this has been said enough for you to give the ministers discharge. Well, technically, yes, but I hope your interest goes farther. Last year I told you about Madame Bovary, that famous book by the French writer Gustave Flaubert. In that book, a married woman steps into a carriage with a man who is not her husband. They drive away and the curtains are closed. And what happens inside is left to the imagination. There's nothing on it on paper. Nevertheless, that book was found so scandalous that it was blacklisted and banned. With that, the readers walked into the trap that was set for them. Because it was the prosecutor's own imagination and imagination that was exposed. There wasn't anything unbecoming on paper. I asked you the rhetorical question as to whether it is desirable that you should fantasize about the performance of the Empire, because there is not enough or too little on paper. For many topics, if you are looking for results or achievements in the accounts, you will still have to come to that conclusion. It's not there. Closed curtains! Mr. Chairman. Imagination and fantasy are part of literature, politics is something else. Fact free politics are not an attractive perspective. That's the second thing I want to tell you today on Accountability Day. This is by far the best visited Accountability Day ever, period! What matters is that we expect the ministers' annual reports to state exactly what happened, so that everyone can see what the promised result is and what the promised policy has achieved. And that is often hard to draw up from the annual reports that the Minister has just presented. The crucial question is: how are we doing and do we want to continue along this path? The question is: what is the route between the third Wednesday of May, today, and the third Tuesday of September and beyond? Mr. Chairman. A former Minister of Education said: a good annual report is not the end of a year cycle, it is the beginning of a discussion. Is the citizen getting what he owes for his money? That's the discussion. But the answer often does not appear from the annual account. And even after our investigation, much remains uncertain. At the same time, the amount of information we can collect thanks to new technology has never been so great as to be able to process and analyse. We live in the information and communication age. Can you now determine, on the basis of the information you are offered and provided, how today's route continues through the third Tuesday in September and beyond? With that question in mind, let me briefly explain three findings from our research. Then I start with the policy of the Minister of Social Affairs to help people with benefits to work. For this purpose, EUR 206 million was made available to the UWV. 25% would not have been spent, but the Minister does not mention in his annual report that the UWV has bought much less reintegration pathways and work facilities than expected. That's what our investigation revealed. It can't be traced from the annual report. Let alone the fact that it is now clear what has been achieved and has not been achieved with those purchased routes and the objectives of the policy. And yet you need to know that to determine what the results are, to determine whether you want to reserve EUR 206 million for this policy again on Princess Day. The annual report does not give the answer. The second example. The Air Quality Cooperation Programme, in which Rijk, provinces and municipalities collaborate on a cleaner air. Last year we concluded that it was not clear whether you could have achieved more with the same money or achieved the same with less money. And yet that is the political key question. That is why we were the first to examine the coherence between costs and results of eight measures under that programme. Our research shows that these measures have led to a 2% reduction in emissions of harmful exhaust gases. The cost of this was 400 million euros. The health gains, we've had them calculated, are low. And we conclude that the Minister could probably have achieved the same with less money. When you take up the annual report, you will not find that answer. Then there's a whole different example. We have also looked at the management of public real estate. We come to the conclusion that the proposed austerity there, 136 million structuralally, will not be achieved. We also come to the conclusion that implementation costs are not decreasing, as intended, but increasing. And we come to the conclusion that the sale of 83 properties did not yield 102 million but less. Because in the years preceding the sale, 100 million more has been written off. So the return on the book value prior to that operation was 2 million euros. If you had relied on the annual report, you would not have known it. The annual report doesn't tell you that. So a recurring problem is that we don't get relevant information for evaluation. You don't know, we don't know, the citizen doesn't know, and sometimes the minister doesn't know. Mr. Chairman. I don't have to tell you how important information is to your work. And yet our investigation shows over and over again that information you need to look ahead is not there. Money is sometimes hard to follow or not to follow. Policy outcomes are often unknown. Or the results can't be linked to the money. Sometimes it's not even known how much money something cost. And yet we live in that age of unbridled possibilities of information and communication. We don't think that's weird, we think that's especially special, Miss Ank would say. Mr. Chairman. The legality is in order. Business is much better than ten, fifteen years ago. The next step will be better understanding of public money and the societal results it achieves. First of all, there is a complete view of public assets and their costs: roads, bridges, fighter jets, frigates, armoured vehicles, real estate. We see that there are initiatives to improve the picture. Consideration will be given to the possibility of introducing a benefit-to-burden system. There is an Operation Understanding in Quality. Also think of releasing open data. Look at the initiative waarstaatje gemeente.nl. And today you will also receive the Monitor Brede Prosperity of the CBS. They are all steps in the right direction. And yet, do you now have that carriage with open curtains? I fear something else will happen unintentionally. You don't get a glass coach, no, there's a future of soldiering. You'll have four carriages. In the first carriage is the Minister of Finance. He'll give you access to the approved state account. It's 228 billion. This is not the same amount from the Spring Note and the National Financial Report. It's about more. So the front curtain partly opens. The second coach will find out with the Minister of the Interior, who will tell you more about the state service, the state staff and the state real estate. The left curtain partly opens. Then there will be a third coach with the Minister of Economic Affairs. It swings from the right window and says that this afternoon there will be another vehicle, a very modern vehicle with more insight into social developments. But don't ask what the relationship is with that first carriage, where the money is transported. Then there's a fourth coach. It belongs to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, because it opens the curtains from the back window. Then we can follow the developments at the UN Sustainable Development Goals in 2030. Four carriages, four times an open curtain, but we don't see everything and we don't know for sure if we keep looking at the same thing. At that time you will receive a letter for this day from the Minister of General Affairs, who writes: "You already have a whole procession. You have a whole caravan. My carriage doesn't add anything to that." Mr. Chairman. Enough about carriages. The fact is that we don't know too much too often. It's not there. You will not find the route of the third Tuesday of September in the annual reports. But it is up to you to decide whether you are satisfied here, exactly 30 years after your initiative to put the figures in order, or whether you are taking up the glove just like 30 years ago, working out the initiatives mentioned, bringing them together into one whole and seeing the whole as an up-to-date approach to integral accountability. With that message, I'd like to offer you our reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court for the documents presented regarding the accountability of the 2017 state budget. Not only you as members of the House of Representatives but also 100 citizens, the so-called V100, will look into these documents in the coming period. The V100 consists of citizens from different layers of the population. They spend a whole day in the Lower House on Friday to ask questions about one part of an annual report that they have to deal with in daily practice. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on responsibility is on the agenda for Wednesday, 23 May 2018. In the following weeks, the individual annual reports will be discussed in the committees, with a final plenary decision-making in the last week before the summer recess. Finally, I would like to point out that today the Annual Report 2017 Scheme Big Projects of the Permanent Committee for Finance and the Monitor Brede Welvaart of the CBS, Central Bureau for Statistics, were also offered to the Chamber. I trust that the reports and explorations presented today will help to assess the policy pursued in 2017. I wish the Chamber every success. Thank you.
