ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34746, Amendment of the Criminal Law Act, the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws to strengthen the criminal law and criminal law possibilities to combat terrorism, i.e. strengthening the criminal law approach to terrorism. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u3	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I had requested a slightly different time than this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u4	I'll change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. Organise a debate on something that we have no or at least no measurable influence on, the climate, and the speakers' lists are full. But today we are talking about terror, the security of our people, and we are talking about three speakers. How bankrupt would you have wanted to see democracy? "I am in awe in the hearts of unbelievers. Beat their heads off. Mutilate them in all limbs." Sura 8, verse 12. Mr President, today is 11 September, 9/11; a more symbolic day to discuss an anti-terror law, a law, is not conceivable. Seventeen years ago, ten Muslims attacked the United States. Muslims who, until then, behaved inconspicuously and integratedly. That date didn't seem like a coincidence. It is the day that in 1683 the army of the Holy League, consisting of Poland, launched the attack on Vienna, besieged by Turks, in a happily successful attempt to expel Islam from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mr Dercksen appears to be measuring the democratic content of the number of speakers. I did not hear him speak about the number of minutes, but I could have. Has he also taken into account the possibility that groups simply agree with this bill and think it is a good bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u7	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But especially on important issues, we are talking about terror and the security of our country, and I would have expected more parties, more groups, to take the trouble to support the cabinet in the measures it is taking or perhaps to criticise it. But that just didn't happen; we have three speakers. For the rest, this debate is going to blow over. Mr. Chairman. "The battle against them until idolatry no longer exists and religion belongs only to Allah." Sura 2, verse 193. Since 9/11, there have been some 34,000 Islamic-inspired terrorist attacks worldwide. The cabinet manages to make an anti-terror law without using the word "islam." "When you meet the unbelievers, take their necks. When you are victorious, tie them up. Those who are slain for the sake of Allah, He will not render their deeds fruitless." Sura 47, verse 4. The government's response to these calls for terror is a law that says that terrorists are no longer allowed to vote. That'll teach them! The government agreement states that there is a threat of returners, given what they have experienced and may even have participated in. Those returners, those jihadists, loathe and despise our way of life. They knowingly travelled to terror areas where women, mostly young girls, are traded as sex slaves. They travelled to a place where journalists, unbelievers, are beheaded, blown up, burned in cages and drowned. That's why they went; that's what they were looking for. That's why we need to denaturalize them, take away the passport. A cabinet that cares about the security of its own people will no longer let these jihadists, these terrorists, in. Mr. Chairman. The Minister writes that terrorism must be combated by all means possible. And then he comes up with a little law that allows DNA to be taken from terrorist suspects, terrorists to no longer vote, the pre-trial detention that is being stretched out and there is a broader obligation to report to those who have knowledge of imminent terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u8	The PVV Group extensively describes the terrible acts committed by jihad fighters abroad and says that these people should be denaturalized and not be able to come back. Does Mr Derksen believe that this is the whole threat of terrorism? Someone can still cause insecurity in the area he's in. But besides that, we have a globalised world, the Internet and everything. From abroad you can still pose a threat to security in the Netherlands. Wouldn't it be better to pick up, try and punish people instead of draw a line and say we're safe with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u9	I did not, of course, suggest that if we do not let those jihadists come back, there will be no more threat of terror in the Netherlands. Of course it's not like that. But those people despise our way of life, they hate our way of life. If we then see what penalties they get here in the explanatory memorandum to the law, it says that there are major problems with the taking of evidence, then for us the best step is not to let these people into the Netherlands anymore. Then we'll make the Netherlands safer. I'm here for the Netherlands, not Syria or Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u10	Finally. I also mentioned the threat you could mean from abroad. You don't necessarily have to be physically here to actually pose a threat and turn people on to mean something here. As long as they have Dutch citizenship, we have jurisdiction, jurisdiction, and therefore the ability to deal with these people criminally. Isn't it a missed chance that we don't take advantage of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u11	No, because the Netherlands will be safer if they're not here. Of course there is the Internet, but countries like Iraq and Russia have very different penalties for jihadists. That solves the problem to a much greater extent than our system does. We shouldn't let those jihadists into the country. Is that the end of the threat? No, of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u12	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u13	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u14	Then I find that the PVV Group prefers to allow an insecurity to exist, because it has not been said at all that they will be punished elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u15	That's a good chance. Or at least there is a greater chance that they will receive a decent punishment or a much more severe punishment than in the Netherlands, because we have serious problems, including with the taking of evidence. If you can't prove someone's a jihadist, he'll be on the street in six months. I am here in front of the Netherlands, I am not here in front of Eastern Europe or Syria. I'm standing here in front of the Netherlands and the Netherlands will be safer if those jihadists don't come in here. Mr. Chairman. I talked about the broader reporting obligation that this law requires. I'd like to hear from the Minister what punishment it's gonna be if you know there's a threat of terror and you don't report it. Will there be a record of that? How should one report when almost all police stations are closed? Can you do that on the Internet? Or is it, as with 70% of the declarations, going into the trash via the Internet? In short, what priority will it have? Because if it isn't a priority, nothing will be done about it in this country. Mr. Chairman. The family's right to change will also continue to exist. So someone who knows about the massacres as in the Bataclan or at the Ariana Grande concert with dozens of deaths, doesn't have to say anything if his brother is going to. How proportional does the Minister consider that? Can he explain that to victims in advance? In addition, what is the likelihood that there will be an actual report? Has he gone a little deeper into the Islamic group culture where not, as in the West, individual values and development are at the top, but the grouper? Salah Abdeslam, the killer of the attack in Brussels, could effortlessly hide 126 days in Molenbeek; 126 days the entire community in Molenbeek held him over his head. Everyone knew where he was. Terrorists and jihadists released from prison or returning from Syria are welcomed as heroes, says Professor Edwin Bakker. Does the Minister really think that an information campaign is going to change these people's minds? He won't be that naive, will he? Mr President, the cabinet later comes up with a bill on how to deal with those who are leaving for terrorist territory, but if the omens do not deceive, it will also become a pap-and-wet law for total deniers. But worse than laws that hardly mean an improvement is a government, a judicial system that doesn't even recognise terrorism. The attacker on a Jewish restaurant in Amsterdam, a lucky seeker from Syria who lied to a residence permit, is seen as a vandal instead of a terrorist. A terrorist set fire in Amsterdam, a few weeks after the attacks on Charlie Hebdo, in a building where a Charlie Hebdo poster hung in front of the windows. The police shut up about the case, fake news media shut up about the case, the municipality shut up, justice shut up, and the terrorist is only convicted of arson by D66 judges. And in the meantime, he's back on the street. A survey in seven countries in Europe shows that jihadists in the Netherlands get the lowest penalty; often less than half of what they get elsewhere. How is that possible? So, Mr. President, what if the entire judicial chain is demonstrably blind to Islamic terror? What if justice only recognizes the terrorist if he identifies himself as such? How can we take this cabinet seriously in the fight against terrorism if we continue to work with one of the biggest financiers of terror, Iran? It is even so bad that the EU is releasing tens of millions more to circumvent the sanctions of the United States, apparently with the agreement of the Cabinet, because I have not heard the cabinet about them. This happens while the population revolts against the Islamofascist regime. We're sending a military attaché to these terrorist financiers. In doing so, the EU and this cabinet also take a stand against the people, who are longing for freedom. Then how can you insist that you want to do everything you can to fight terror? The cabinet has the taxpayer pay for terror. Dutch taxpayers' money is also sponsored by terrorists in Israeli prisons through the Palestinian Authority. How does that exist? And we also donate tens of millions for equipment to armed groups in Syria. We can't know anything else about it. First it was the Free Syrian Army. He started working with Al-Nusra, so it soon disappeared into the cover-up. And yesterday we heard that the Sultan Murad Brigade, war criminals, and Jabhat al-Shamiya received material from the Netherlands. Our military must shout "pang, pang" when they are sent to a sandbox with inferior material. They have to go to the army dump for a decent uniform. And we're sending equipment to terrorists in Syria. Speaking of failed states. Mr President, the political Europhile elite is therefore not only a danger to its own people, but also to other peoples in the meantime. How can we take this cabinet seriously in the fight against terror if, for example, the El-Tawheed mosque in Amsterdam is left unhindered? It's been a terrorist clubhouse since 2004. And since 2004, politicians of many colors, not only from the PVV, have been calling for closure, but nothing is happening. The city's lying to the council. That's not so crazy, because in the meantime, they employ fraudsters and jihadists. That's where they invite arsonists to put out the fire. There were dozens of jihadists leaving that mosque for ISIS. The arsonist-terrorist of that Charlie Hebdo poster I just mentioned was a child at home. Mohammed Bouyeri, Theo van Gogh's killer, came on the floor. Terrorists of 9/11, including Mohammed Atta, were at a conference in this mosque in 1999. Sheikh Al-Aqeel is connected to El-Tawheed and he has ties to a terrorist cell. People sell books that conjure up hatred of women and gays. The Al-Haramein Fund, which financed the mosque, has a link with the terrorists of Hamas and Al-Qaeda. Two mosque directors of this mosque were charged with funding Bin Laden by relatives of 9/11. The president of the mosque called Jews and Christians "firewood for hell." A youth worker attached to this mosque was convicted of terror in Belgium and now hate preacher Fawaz Jneid also appears on it. IS travellers, recruiters: it all gathers in the El-Tawheed mosque. And the government isn't doing anything. The city doesn't do anything. Justice doesn't do anything. Police aren't doing anything. However, there is an agreement that only Moroccan agents may enter. And this minister, familiar with these facts, also does nothing. It is fine if Minister Blok takes all kinds of other countries into account, but how much better is it in the Netherlands? I have two questions, Mr President. When's the mosque gonna close? In any case, in the second term, I will come forward with a motion to close this hotbed of terror. My second question: do more mosques in this country have appointments with the police who can or cannot enter? I'd like a response. Mr President, the list of mosques that have a link with terror and jihadgoers is long. For example, a terrorist investigation at the Arrayan mosque, including in Amsterdam, was frustrated by agents from the Moroccan network in Amsterdam who leaked. How is that possible? Have any measures been taken against these agents who leaked, and if so, which ones? An agent leaking a photo from a Moroccan man's file who ran people over in the square in front of the Central Station was fired. Then what happens to people leaking out of a terrorist file? I would like to hear a concrete response, also to the question of why there is even a Moroccan network within the police. Mr President, the coalition agreement states that the cabinet will do everything in its power to prevent hate preachers from being offered a stage. How much hatred has the Minister already declared an undesirable stranger? Or perhaps a more practical proposal: if I now come up with a list of hate preachers, by name and name, with the hatred they preach and the stages, the mosques where they preach, can I agree with the minister today that those hate preachers will be expelled from the country or get a ban on entry, and that those stages, those mosques, will be immediately closed down? Can we arrange that today, I will ask the Minister through the chairman. And don't tell me you can't. France does it. Austria is doing it with a prime minister of the same colour as this minister. So don't say you can't. Trying to identify someone as an unwanted stranger isn't very complicated. To designate the mosque in question as a criminal or perhaps even a terrorist organisation is also not very complicated: Article 140 of the Criminal Code. How can we take this cabinet seriously in the fight against terror when we pick up jihadists from Turkey? Where's the Prime Minister's tough talk that he prefers them to die? The facts are, we're picking them up. Why? In addition, these jihadists have two passports. Have Morocco pick them up if necessary. Why do we have to do that? Neither costs nor effort are spared; the Netherlands will arrange your passport. And why does the Minister bring them here if they can no longer be prosecuted in the Netherlands even then? Does the Minister not think that I am here for the interests of the ordinary Dutch people and I must guarantee their safety? And if so, what would that prove to be? Or do we see the citizen here, Grapperhaus, who thinks you're gonna get these terrorists straight with a chat? Does the Minister know the interviews with these jihadists when the camera is off and the microphones are disconnected? Then they say they don't regret leaving for ISIS at all. The only thing they regret is that ISIS has fallen, or has almost fallen. And we're gonna let those people go back. Does the Minister know these interviews? And how naive does he think his own policy is? How can we take this cabinet seriously in the fight against terror when the borders are wide open? A victim of trafficking, a minor girl, came across her own rapist in Germany. She fled back to Kurdistan and the unsub lives in freedom at the expense of the taxpayer as a pathetic refugee. And this terrorist, with the fantastic open borders of the EU, could be here anytime. And he is not alone: in Germany there are 767 jihadists who are known to be jihadists, and there are 700,000 refugees, immigrants who are not known who they are and where they are. And in the Netherlands it's not much better. A guest of the Wir-schaffen-das-Belchant also stabbed people here at the Centraal in Amsterdam and the murdering migrants in Chemnitz also stayed in the Netherlands. And who are we supposed to blame for that? Of course, that terrorist, but of course also those who brought this about our country. For, President, terror and terror is not a natural phenomenon, which the political elite have called upon to sit here over our country and over our people. Mr. Chairman. In Poland and Hungary, no Merkel-lego, concrete blocks designed to protect pedestrians. There they are careful of their land, of their people, of their culture. Will the Minister at least acknowledge that this terrorism is there, through decades of disastrous policy? Mr. Chairman. Finally. In the Lower House, the minister did not want to engage in ideological discussion about jihad and Islam. He has been able to explore Islam during the summer vacation, and then he knows that a Sharia calls for jihad, for terror. Does the Minister nevertheless know one mosque in the Netherlands that openly rejects Sharia? Does the Minister also know that Sharia is not just a noncommittal thing for Muslims, but that Sharia is obliging Muslims to fight, to wage war against infidels? Publicist Hafiz Bouazza................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. He who sows Islam shall reap Shariah and jihad. How can we take a cabinet seriously in the fight against terror that doesn't realize that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u17	The bill we are debating today aims to further strengthen the criminal justice approach to terrorism. It has received broad support in the House of Representatives and will undoubtedly be accepted here as well. Against the threat to the democratic rule of law by individuals and organisations who see in that rule of law the opposite of what appeals to them is an essential task for society and the government. This bill also makes that clear, in those areas where citizens' obligations to prevent terrorist violence are mentioned. Those who know of cases which may lead to terrorist violence do not have the right to remain silent, but have a duty to speak to the competent authorities. Anyone who doubts whether the provision of certain services could be related to this type of crime bears his responsibility. And anyone who raises suspicion as possibly involved in a terrorist offence must be sure that the rule of law will not be played with, but will act hard and decisively, in order to protect our society. My group sees the importance of this robust defence of the democratic rule of law and will therefore support the proposal. But not until the Minister has given a proper answer to the fact that this bill is also risky. As the Council of State says, it violates some fundamental fundamental rights. And that is only right, as my group repeats to the Council of State, when these infringements are absolutely necessary in a democratic society. If our group, but I assume the whole Chamber, receives such a warning from the highest government advisor, then we are obliged to question the government critically and thus give it the opportunity again to realise that we are going on thin ice here and that we have really realised that this is a special legislative proposal, which deals with the foundations of the democratic rule of law. Protecting these foundations is, after all, one of our main tasks in this house. Does the Minister therefore wish to take the time to re-examine, at the end of the legislative process, the unbridled criticism made to the government by the Council of State at the beginning of this legislative process and to make it clear, also in this Chamber, that the government fully understands the criticism of the Council of State and would like to indicate how the government will ensure that this bill will eventually be implemented in such a way that the criticism of the Council of State has been met and that this bill is certainly needed in a democratic rule of law? The Minister will agree with me that it is not very common for the Council of State to come out so firmly, and even says that if the government is unable to respond to the fundamental criticism of its principal advisor, then the bill would be better put in the closet. Can I also ask the Minister, on behalf of my group, how he intends to deal with the criticism of the Council of State that, if this Chamber agrees today, we have once again a new law in the context of the criminal law against terrorism, without any insight into the effects of legislative proposals adopted earlier here with a similar purpose? Is it not high time we understood the effects of the legislation adopted so far in this area, or missed it? Will the Minister undertake a thorough review in the short term, so that we know what legislation is leading this violation to fundamental fundamental rights, in order to protect the democratic rule of law? And will he promise that, should an evaluation show that the effects are different than expected, he is prepared to consider with Parliament whether certain measures can be reversed or adapted? For one thing is certain: our country will not be safer and our rule of law will not be strengthened by paper laws without a practical positive benefit. I believe that the Minister will follow our group in that direction. Specifically, the SP Group has the following questions about the bill to the Minister. This concerns questions on: the extension of the reporting obligation; the extension of provisional detention without serious objection, and the withdrawal of the right to vote. I shall begin with the extension of the reporting obligation. This bill extends the obligation to report in Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure by stating that the obligation to report also applies to anyone who is aware of a terrorist offence. Could the Minister state why the addition of this phrase is necessary? The reporting obligation is already governed by Article 136 of the Criminal Code. All the more so because an infringement of Article 136 of the Code of Criminal Law is punishable and infringement of Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure constitutes a non-sanctioned legal obligation. I'd like the Minister's response. In the note following the report of 24 January 2018 to the House of Representatives, the Minister writes: "Unlike the members of the CDA Group supposedly, the bill does not create a reporting obligation (as referred to in Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure) in respect of crimes covered by Article 83b of the Code of Criminal Law." Article 83b of the Code of Criminal Law states that "crime for the preparation or facilitation of a terrorist offence" means any of the offences defined in the articles referred to in the Article 83b of the Code of Criminal Law. In addition, 129 Code of Criminal Procedure provides that where a crime is referred to, including the accessory, attempt and preparation of the crime is understood. Can the Minister undertake, in a future law in Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to specify which crimes the Minister means, for example by referring to the crimes referred to in Article 83 of the Code of Criminal Law? I'd like the Minister's response. In the explanatory memorandum, in Section 4.3, the Minister raises the question of whether a bank employee should investigate further a payment to a person in Syria. According to the Minister, Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure does not refer to that. It concerns the obligation for those who have knowledge of a crime to report it. This would not be the case in the case of the bank employee. The Minister repeats this in the note following the report to the House of Representatives. Why is a bank held to report in this case? After all, the bank is aware that funds are being transferred through its account to Syria. Isn't a bank obliged to investigate and report on this? After all, the bank may be involved in terrorist financing. I'd like a response from the Minister. In the note following the report of 24 January 2018 to the House of Representatives, the Minister writes "that the usefulness of the proposed extension of the reporting obligation lies in addressing, in the sense of exhortation, persons in the immediate vicinity of perpetrators of terrorist offences, who at some point become aware of concrete plans to commit an attack or other terrorist offence. They must feel the pressure of society to report it." Can we not simply be satisfied with a public campaign or a campaign on target groups with the aim of having a duty of reporting which poses a threat of punishment? As far as I know, these target groups only read the Official Journal. The question is therefore whether this change of law will be known to those concerned at all. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then I come to broadening the provisional detention without any serious objections. The proposal is to substantially extend Article 67 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, paragraph 4, which provides that, in the event of suspicion of a terrorist offence, serious objections are not required for a detention order and a first detention order for a maximum period of 30 days. That is an extension of 14 days to a maximum of 44 days. Extending such provisions gives rise to a significant risk of long-term detention for suspects against whom there is no case at the end of the day, while increasing the risks for those concerned. There is an increased risk of losing their job, benefit or home, apart from the fact that the person can be deprived of his or her freedom for 44 days, in addition to the three days of insurance. In the opinion of the Dutch barristers, the lawyers write that they have the impression that the investigation services, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the probation, possibly due to a lack of manpower, are not doing enough active and proactive research and are overly guided by the next council chamber moment. However, the solution to this lack of manpower and organisation cannot be found in a longer period of deprivation of liberty for the citizen. The Advisory Section of the Council of State also states in its Opinion that the reasons given for the extension are not such as to satisfy the need for the proposed restriction of the right to freedom. The section also refers in its opinion to the 2014 Review of the Terrorist Crimes Act. In a four-year period, in only four terrorist cases, pre-trial detention of terrorist suspects has been applied on the basis of suspicions to prevent a possible acute threat and to collect information. In none of the cases has the extra time due to detention without serious objections led to the adoption of serious objections as one of the conditions for detention or to legal and convincing evidence of a proven statement. Because of lack of evidence, the investigations have been discontinued. For this reason, the section asked the government to justify the need for enlargement and, if this is not possible, to refrain from doing so. In the opinion of the SP Group, this further statement of reasons has been supplemented very briefly. In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the government provides that it is highly conceivable that sometimes, after weeks of intensive investigation, the role of certain suspects should be clarified. This may therefore take longer than 44 days. For the SP Group, the question of whether enlargement is necessary is all the more apparent from the Minister's announcements to the House of Representatives that the current regime has so far provided sufficient results and that no terrorist suspects have been released in recent years in the absence of serious objections. I'd like a response from the Minister. The answer given by the Minister to questions from the GroenLinks Group in the Lower House states that, after the 2014 evaluation, there was no record of the application of pre-trial detention for the period 2007 to 2011 without serious objections. Nor could it be looked at in how many of these cases this led to a conviction. Could the Minister undertake to instruct the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary to determine whether, in terrorist cases, pre-trial detention has been applied in which there were no serious objections and whether there have been prosecutions in those cases, and to inform the First and Second Chambers of this matter annually? I'd like a response from the Minister. In the Council's opinion on the case-law, the Council states that in such cases the judge is faced with a dilemma because he must take a far-reaching decision on the basis of facts which are not verifiable for him. In doing so, the judge runs the risk of robbing an innocent person of his freedom for a long time or of releasing a person who poses a serious threat to society. Could the Minister indicate where the judge should be judging? I would also like to mention last night's report in Nieuwsuur on the support of the Netherlands in recent years to terrorist organisations in Syria. The SP Group is very shocked about the coverage. This does not contribute to the confidence in the Dutch government, a government which, on the one hand, with the present bill, declares that terrorism and support for terrorism need to be tackled hard, but on the other hand appears to support this terrorism itself. How does the Minister see this? Can a person at this time still be taken into custody and held and prosecuted and tried if the Dutch State has facilitated the terrorist organisation to which the person has joined in Syria? I'd like a response from the Minister. The SP Group looks forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, terrorism is not a new phenomenon. Also in the last century we were often plagued by this. Yet today is a memorable day, because exactly 17 years ago the world was shocked by a new form, an attack on aircraft that killed almost 3,000 people. Afterwards, many victims of terrorism have also been killed worldwide. The threats of terrorism, which are sometimes unfortunately also met, have rightly made us more alert. At the same time, it is important to remain vigilant that we do not also fight our own rule of law with the fight against terrorism. If we sacrifice our legal guarantees, terrorism has achieved an important victory. There is also a need to remain vigilant in trying to prevent and combat terrorism with an integrated approach. There are often multi-layered and complex causes to terrorist behaviour and behaviour. With simple legislation or even enforcement alone, we are not gonna make it. We therefore welcome the government's comprehensive approach and call for continued proportionate attention to be paid to all these different aspects, including the prevention of radicalisation. Of course, our possibilities for detection, prosecution and trial must be kept up to date with developments in terrorist offences. In the explanatory memorandum, the government points out the increasing frequency of attacks by soloists, attacks by returning jihad fighters and organised trips to Europe to conduct attacks there later. In order to cope with these developments, the government considers it necessary to allow suspects of serious terrorist offences to be held in remand for a longer period without serious objections, up to a maximum of 30 days. After all, it would take longer for the evidence for these serious objections to be complete. In addition, in addition to a broad reporting obligation and more severe punishment, including the withdrawal of the right to vote, DNA material could be taken from all suspects of a terrorist offence, without a strong suspicion against them, in the form of a serious objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u20	Do I understand that in the meantime the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also recognizes that there have been terrorists in the vast stream of immigrants who have entered Europe in recent years? That was a lot of discussion within your party, but I understand now that you acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u21	GroenLinks has never denied the existence of terrorist offences and terrorists in different ways. Mr. Dercksen just turned it in, too. There are also people born and raised here who end up committing a terrorist act. I don't quite understand Mr. Dercksen's question of what we would ignore and what I would suddenly recognize here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u22	Well, I have to think of Mrs Sargentini's famous tweet from your group in the European Parliament. She said there was no evidence that there would be terrorists under the flood. We are now a few years further, but I understand, once again, that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is now aware that they are not only immigrants, most of whom are economic, but also terrorists. Don't you think it's a good idea to stop that power?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u23	Mr. Dercksen, potential terrorists are always everywhere. I therefore call for a comprehensive and comprehensive approach to prevent this. I do not see any connection between terrorism and the migration policy being pursued. I don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u24	Now things are getting really complicated, because you just said that the flow of immigrants is bringing terrorists along, and now you're saying that you don't see any connection between terrorists and immigration. Then you are back at three or four years ago, when Mrs Sargentini said in the European Parliament that there was no reason to believe that terrorists would come along with the flow of immigration. The perpetrators of Bataclan, Ariana Grande, all of them; many of them have come along with this stream of immigrants to commit terrorist attacks here, and you are standing here denying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u25	I do not really understand what Mr Dercksen wants from me. I have just indicated that it is never possible to exclude migrants entering the Netherlands, and certainly not to rule out the possibility that terrorists who were born and raised here will at some point proceed to a terrorist offence. In that sense, there is no connection. You can't think: if I close the borders, we'll be free of terrorism. If only life were that simple, but unfortunately it's not, I have to tell Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u26	Finally, a very small point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u27	Yeah, it's a very small point. What I want from you is only that you acknowledge that the flow of immigration that has begun since the Arab Spring, terrorists, and especially Western Europe, have flown into Europe. That's all I want from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u28	This cannot be ruled out, as it has developed and has come from different parts of the world in many different ways. Mr. Chairman. I was at the point of DNA. My group is not clear as to why a retention period of up to 80 years would be necessary in the collection of DNA material from terrorist suspects without any serious objection and retention. Can the Minister explain this in more detail? We understand from the parliamentary treatment that the DNA material will be destroyed as soon as the prosecution stops. That is an important commitment. But can the Minister also explain why after acquittal the data remains in the files? Surely the same reasons could have led to the abandonment of further prosecution? My group is also happy to endorse the questions raised by the SP Group on reporting obligations. Mr. Chairman. My group is pleased that the government has decided to remove the criminalisation of residence in a given area following the firm criticism of the Council of State. However, my group is surprised that this cabinet has then returned to it. The criticism of the Council of State was so fundamental that it seems difficult to remove it in an independent proposal. So we are very curious about the proposal as it will be sent to the Chamber. However, my group's main questions and doubts regarding this proposal concern the possibility of pre-trial detention for up to 44 days, in the absence of serious objections in the event of suspicion of a serious form of terrorism. Freedom is a major responsibility for the public authorities, which must be dealt with with with great care, even before there is a condemnation. Such a long time usually also has far greater practical consequences for a suspect, as Mrs Wezel has also pointed out. My group welcomes some tightening up, such as interim review by the Judge Commissioner instead of a single 30-day review, but the Human Rights College has also pointed out that research shows that this judicial review is not always so thorough. The Minister expects that this legislative proposal will make this test more intrusive. Can he explain this further? What exactly can the rc test? If there are no serious objections, there is less to test, you would say. Can the Minister be more precise about these criteria? Even if there is no need for a serious objection, say a strong suspicion, should it not be the case that as the detention takes longer, its continuation will be more critically reviewed? What are the criteria available to the Judge Commissioner? Even if the crimes for which this extension applies have been defined, it is far from possible for all the suspects who committed these crimes to be eligible, our group seems to be. In order to do so, the judge-in-chief will also have to assess the gravity of this suspicion and what exactly they are suspected of. Please provide a further explanation of those possibilities of review. Maybe one more technical question. The proposed paragraph 4 of Article 67 of the Code of Criminal Procedure expressly states that the maximum period of 30 days can be held without serious objection. But those first 14 days of pre-trial detention have also been applied without serious objection. Does that formulation of up to 30 days mean it should be 14 plus 16? Or is it 14 plus 30 days, giving you 44 days? That last sentence of paragraph 4 could also mean that it should be a maximum of 30 days. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The criterion of serious objections is an important guarantee that pre-trial detention will only be used if it is really necessary. In order to depart from that guarantee, the Minister must provide solid support. This leads us to more fundamental doubts, namely the need for this legislative proposal. With the Council of State, we are also missing the justification, especially in comparison to other crimes. In the case of a terrorist offence committed in the Netherlands, police and justice are subject to the same restrictions and possibilities as in other crimes. That is why our question is whether it is particularly difficult in the case of serious terrorist offences to support those serious objections, and if so, why. The Minister mentions the argument of encrypting information. That takes time, but we also see encrypting in other crimes. Or does the seriousness of the crime justify giving the prosecution more time to support those objections? In view of the far-reaching nature of longer pre-trial detention without strong suspicion, the Council of State pointed to the fact that there has been no need for it so far. According to the advisory body, therefore, there is no added value. The Minister acknowledges that it does not appear to have been necessary before, but nevertheless points to criminal investigations at home and abroad which would show that sometimes weeks go by to bring up sufficient evidence to support a serious objection. Can the Minister explain what these domestic experiences are to which he refers? That would not be consistent with findings from that earlier investigation. Mr. Chairman. The whole proposal seems mainly driven by the jihad fighters in the Middle East and the fear of their return. It is also explicitly motivated in the coalition agreement. In these cases it may also be best to understand that more time is needed, because it is about acts carried out abroad. That is why my colleague, Mr Buitenweg, has called for this bill to be limited to this group. Our group was therefore surprised to read that the public prosecutor has no difficulty with that group in providing sufficient justification for its complexity and seriousness. Do we have to conclude from this that the public prosecutor can really get out of the way with the current criminal proceedings? This point is crucial when it comes to the relationship between this bill and the Dutch repeal law in the interests of national security. That bill was passed here last year by a narrow majority and many senators expressed doubts about the administrative power to withdraw from the Netherlands without any criminal proceedings. The minister's main argument at the time was that this instrument is necessary because the criminal possibilities cannot always guarantee safety in the Netherlands. Because people couldn't be held long enough, because the evidence isn't always on time. That was the most important example. Is it now apparent from the answer given by the Minister in the Lower House that it was an incorrect justification for that bill that the public prosecutor can get away with the current possibilities, because in practice returners can always be detained for a sufficient amount of time? And if that is not the case, is our question: if this bill is to be adopted, will the Minister in principle give priority to the application of criminal law over the administrative measure of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship? For our group, the Minister may well know that an affirmative response to this is crucial to our support for this bill. After all, it would mean that former jihad fighters would lose their nationality less quickly without criminal investigation and that a careful criminal procedure and possible trial could take place. This fits into the rule of law and is also safer at home and abroad than leaving jihad fighters without conviction abroad. In doing so, the Netherlands would also make optimal use of its criminal justice instruments and thus also respect UN Security Council Resolution 2322 which obliges all countries to cooperate in international criminal law. If a longer-term pre-trial detention in certain situations is really necessary for the course of the criminal procedure, then we can justify it, but that criminal procedure should also be followed as far as possible. Or does the Minister want to keep all the options open and keep eating off both sides? So it's just up to him to decide when he's gonna withdraw the nationality or when he's gonna go for that criminal procedure. My group would find that more difficult to accept. So I'd like a more detailed explanation. Is the Minister prepared to choose that criminal law over the administrative measure, even if that is a little more difficult? We hope that he can be shown to prefer this route because there are more safeguards there. Withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is very far-reaching. The question that arises is whether this bill will lead the Minister to do so. I would also ask if the Minister could give us some more information on the situation with regard to these withdrawals. We have read the letter of 30 August, which states that seven times the administrative measure has been applied and about the same after a criminal conviction. Maybe he could go into more detail as to whether there has been an appeal and what the outcome is and what second nationality it is. So please answer about the relationship between these two laws and their application. What we read above all is that many Dutch former jihad fighters who want to travel back to the Netherlands are not facilitated or even hindered. That seems to my group to be contrary to human rights in order to be able to return to your own country. Can the Minister inform us about what the specific policy looks like and whether there is a difference between people with a dual nationality and those with a single nationality? Will the current practice of whether or not to facilitate or prevent the return of the bill change with the adoption of the bill? One of the reasons why these questions are also important is the large number of Dutch children staying abroad in appalling circumstances. The Dutch government takes the view that Dutch jihadists and their children are not helping to return to the Netherlands because it is too dangerous to remove them. But what if it is no longer as dangerous, perhaps when this last, but ludicrous phase of the war that has now been waged with the attacks on Idlib, is over? Does the argument arise that the Dutch government does not want to expose the Dutch to the danger of returners, and their potentially radicalised children? And how does he see the fact that the vast majority of these children are under four years of age in the light of their appalling circumstances and the fact that they suffer great psychological but also physical damage there that they will not be lost? At some point these children will be able to decide to travel back to the Netherlands, because of them the Dutchmanship cannot be taken away from them. Apart from the violation of their children's rights and the right to return to their own country, extending those vulnerable conditions of those children poses a greater danger to the Netherlands than a withdrawal action, after which they can grow up stable in the Netherlands, even if their parents are persecuted and tried in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u29	Why do you assume that the Netherlands is their own country? They left the Netherlands because they wanted to go to Islamic State. That's not Disneyland Paris, is it? They wanted to go to Islamic State of which everyone knew what atrocities were taking place. Why do you assume that the Netherlands is their own country? They left us because they despised our way of life. They wanted to go to Islamic State. The Netherlands is not their country at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u30	Every citizen has the right to return to his own country. They have Dutch nationality, so they have the right to return to their country. Those Dutch children remain Dutch. That's why they'll always have that opportunity. There is no difference between Dutch children with two nationalities and Dutch children with a nationality. The IVBPR and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights give all citizens the right to return to their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u31	You will not comment on my argument that they have nothing with the Netherlands. They don't like the Netherlands at all. They want to go back to the Netherlands because life in that hammock is the easiest place to live and because here the punishments for jihadists are the lowest. I have just said it in my speech and asked the Minister why the punishments for jihadists are the lowest. They don't like the Netherlands. If these jihadists have two passports, doesn't the Islamic State fit in better with Morocco than with the Netherlands? So why do we call or do you not call on the Cabinet to contact the King of Morocco to cash that passport? Then they can go back to their country which at least looks a little bit more like Islamic State than the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u32	Mr Dercksen asked what they would base their right to return. That is what I have said: that is what the treaties say, and it is true for every citizen that they can return to the country of their own nationality. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u33	Are you watching your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u34	Yes. I would like to mention two more examples. The U.S. government is pressing for the recovery of IS women with their children to counter further radicalisation. The French authorities are also actively pursuing policies to prevent, as the French prosecutor said, children from becoming ticking time bombs. We hope that the Minister will be able to provide a little more clarity. Effective counter-terrorism is also very important for us, as is the preservation of legal guarantees. We hope that the Minister will be able to give satisfactory answers in both respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-7.u36	I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes, pending the Minister for Medical Care and Sports.
