ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the Act Register of Educational Participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u2	I welcome the Minister and give the floor first to Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u3	Mr. Chairman. This was actually a hammer piece, but in response to a letter from the PO Council, the CDA Group asked for a brief plenary discussion of the Register of Educational Participants Bill. The point of discussion concerns whether or not to add the administrative number of the secondary school to the data set provided by primary schools on the study results of their former pupils. With this information, primary schools can test the quality of their school advice. The law now states that the primary school may ask the secondary school at the end of the first year of school to provide the study results of former pupils. This bill will ensure that primary schools will now receive a feedback on the first three years of their former pupils in secondary education. The CDA welcomes the fact that we are extending the feedback from one year to three years, as this will give us a better understanding of the quality of the school advice provided by the primary school. In addition, the school leader and the primary school teachers' team can draw lessons from this. However, we do not understand why this feedback from now on only contains data on the school year, the type of school and the learning path or the exit profile in the secondary special education, and not on the school to which this pupil has gone. The primary schools know which secondary schools their pupils attend after elementary school. Then why shouldn't they know which school their former students attend in second and third years of high school? In addition, we can very well imagine that it is relevant for primary school to know which secondary school it is about when assessing the quality of the school advice. That is certainly the case when one group of students, for example, does better or worse than the other group. Look at the students going to the havo. If one learner goes to one school and the other learner goes to another and there is a lot more outflowing or more students stay in one school, because they do not seem to have the right level, while the students who went to the other school do, then that can also say something about further education. That also seems relevant to me to know for primary schools. It seems to us that we can actually improve the analysis of the quality of the school advice, especially now that primary schools can watch for three years. However, the Minister states in the letter of amendment that adding the administrative number of the secondary school is not strictly necessary for the analysis of the quality of the school advice. Then how does he assess the arguments that we put forward? After all, is this not about the overall quality of the school advice? It's not just about the individual students, is it? It is also about improving equality of opportunity. In addition, primary schools are paid for the quality of the school advice. Then why is it not possible to add the administrative number of the secondary school, my group asks the Minister. We are therefore considering tabling a motion for a resolution to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u4	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have been talking about this for years, but inequality of opportunity in education remains a very persistent and very versatile problem. We haven't found the solution yet. If only it were so easy to make a law here, so that every child in future has an equal opportunity in education, regardless of the education of the parents, the family situation or the place of residence. Unfortunately, reality is more complex, but that does not relieve us of the responsibility to dwell on inequality in education and to think about solutions. In part, inequality of opportunity comes from the fact that children who are cognitively at the same level and who should, in theory, have the same school results or sometimes have the same ones, are still assessed differently. So it's not so crazy that some kids are subconsciously misjudged. Yet these children deserve equal opportunities. Mr. Chairman. Today, we are discussing a bill that contributes to this or a part of the bill that can help teachers in primary education to receive feedback on the school advice, so that the teacher knows how his or her former pupils perform in the secondary education. This allows the school with the teachers to improve the process of giving school advice to future students. In a letter the PO-Council wrote to us that he also wants primary schools not only to know how the former pupil is doing in secondary education, but also to find out which secondary school he or she is in, so I quote from the letter "possible notable differences of results." I'll ask the Minister how he looks at this. Is this necessary for primary schools and teachers to improve the delivery of school advice? Is this knowledge necessary? What does that knowledge add? What does the privacy laws say about this? Could this be possible from a privacy point of view? Mr. Chairman. We also reach out to messages that express concerns about privacy in the current bill. My group believes it is important to have this issue clear as well. Is it true that this law allows the Minister himself to decide, whenever he so wishes, to adapt the collected data of pupils? What happens if a student or parent doesn't want data to be returned? I would like an answer from the Minister to this question. For GroenLinks, equality of opportunity in education is a very important starting point, as is the privacy of students. We hope that this bill will contribute to equality of opportunity and that this will not be at the expense of children's privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u6	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The basic register of educators, now about 17 years old, looks a bit like the bookcase in my study at home. Ever started in a clear and functional way, but after many years of rebuilding and refurbishing shelves, drawers in and out again, the right hand side with the left side is now large and complex and I'm not sure if he's doing what he needs to do, saving books. So it is also the same with the basic register of participants in education. It was once one of the first automated projects. Now it has become somewhat unclear and may not be the best solution to the task. The VVD is therefore positive about this bill, which aims to create more simplicity and logic in the system. This helps to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy. And who doesn't want that? This room as a whole is, I think. Mr. Chairman. Of course, my group still has a number of questions on three subjects. First of all, it is convincingly stated in the proposal that this new law creates more opportunities for digital education and examination. The VVD would like to know from the Minister what ambition he has in this area and whether he can make concrete what steps he has in mind. How can this law contribute to greater flexibility for students and students? Can the Minister undertake to give explicit consideration to how digital opportunities can be addressed in the review of this law? Secondly, I have questions about the opportunities of this bill with regard to reducing school absenteeism. The VVD considers that too little policy-relevant information is yet to be collected in the field of absenteeism and early school leaving, while the register has the tools to do so. The VVD fears that there is still far too much hidden outage. Is the Minister prepared to raise more national figures, of course anonymised, and use them for evaluation and improvement plans, so that we can make much better and much more effective efforts to reduce failures and failures? Finally. In addition, it is widely known that the government has no spotless reputation for innovations in databases and similar ICT innovations. I would like to receive an undertaking from the Minister that he will regularly inform the Chamber about the progress of the implementation after the adoption of this bill. In doing so, we would like to draw specific attention to the use of the new digital possibilities, the cost and the privacy of the educational participants. Specifically about the latter: to what extent is or will it become possible for each educational participant to have access to his or her stored data? Can the Minister confirm that no more data is collected than is laid down in the law? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u8	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Bertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill integrates a number of existing registers at DUO, the Implementation Education Department. In terms of content, it is not a new register. We therefore believe that this proposal is purely to streamline existing registers. This creates a more coherent information structure. Previously, the exchange of information was mainly sector-specific. This proposal will involve cross-sector and domain data traffic. That is progress, according to the explanatory statement. But is that really true? The fact that this bill was rejected by the CDA gives us the opportunity to ask the Minister some questions about the objections raised by the Council of State. The Council of State even goes so far as to recommend that this bill should not be sent to the House of Representatives until these objections have been taken into account. Then came a letter of amendment. I was the most affected by this: of course, everyone wants more simplicity and accessibility of legislation, but education is highly sectoral. For this reason, the Council of State states that a general law on education is more complicated precisely because of sectoral diversity than a sectoral regulation and, moreover, that the layering of the scheme is increasing rather than decreasing. Does the Register of Educational Participants Act actually provide a significant improvement in approachability, transparency, regulation and regulation, as promised by the explanatory memorandum? Or is it actually becoming more complicated and layered by the sectoral diversity that exists in education? Does the letter of amendment sufficiently respond to the concerns? Can the Minister reflect on that for a moment? Is it perhaps appropriate to refer the amendments made to the Council of State again, also in order to avoid any possible reservations in the Upper Chamber? Thanks to the CDA we are here tonight, not without reason. I agree with the motives of my colleague Rog. The motion adopted by Van Meenen, Rog and Klaver was not included in the bill. Despite the fact that we did not vote in favour of this motion, it was adopted. This bill goes for the proposers of the motion, or at least for one of the proposers, the CDA, so not far enough. In the spirit of the motion, the registration numbers of pupils in secondary education should also be included. Is this gonna happen? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. Working on improving the quality of school advice should also be possible. Surely it should be possible for all individual performance data to be shared with primary schools? It must also be possible to discuss with parents exactly what information is then shared. Finally, none of this would have been necessary if we had kept in honour of the unsavory Cito test that wonderful matching instrument we defended until the last time, but unfortunately has been abolished by this Chamber. Mr President, that aside, I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u10	Very good. Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today the SP can make it short. We support the objective of this law. Merging all registers in which data are collected is not only practical, but also sensible. We believe that one law and one way of dealing with the personal data of educational participants also reduces the risk of errors in implementation. A simpler version is often also a less risky version. Well, we do have a few more questions. For example, there is talk of third parties who are given the personal number, but this will only be dealt with later by a general measure of governance. We are wondering which third parties we should think of more. Wouldn't it make more sense, then, that the Council of State has already referred to the fact that the purposes for which that data is to be used are laid down in a law, and not in underlying rules that would later come to the Chamber if we wanted to? Then you immediately know what else such a register could be used for. I wonder why that wasn't chosen. The debate on the system and the implementation to which it is applied is now separated, but we can imagine that these two are rather connected in practice. For what is the procedure to be followed in the future if the government wants to use data for something or change the scope of the register? If I am not mistaken, there will be a general measure of governance or a test by the Personal Data Authority. Is there going to be any further treatment in the Chamber? In this way, the Court is in any case in control of decision-making: if it wishes, we can always decide not to do anything. Finally. Why has it now been decided, for example, to automatically link traceable personal data from high school students back to their old primary school? Can't it be simple to ask permission when a student leaves primary school? The moment you choose to do so, you leave the choice with the parent and the student who goes to high school. I can't think of one-two-three of these serious reasons why a parent or a student would object to this, but that doesn't mean it's not neat to ask. This way you control your personal data yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u12	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make something right. Mr Beertema claimed that the Cito tests have been abolished, but they simply still exist. In fact, the final test is even mandatory. It still serves as a correction mechanism to the opinion. Perhaps Mr Bertema will sleep a little better tonight. Mr. Chairman. Earlier, I made an extensive plea for children's privacy. Because we have to stand up for the privacy of the youngest generation, whose baby pictures are on Mom or Dad's Instagram. Daddy may later when the baby is a teenager even get a push message if the little one gets an inadequate for math. In addition, as a D66 chamber member, I cannot stay away from criticism of privacy violations. But on the other hand, I also attach great importance to a good flow from primary school to secondary school. Information on former pupils gives schools the opportunity to evaluate and improve the accuracy of school advice. However, I have some questions about this bill, especially given that cyber security is not yet optimal at every primary school. The Dutch Data Protection Authority also advised the Minister to reconsider this change. It provides two alternatives, namely the possibility for parents to consent to the use of their children's data for the school advice, or the possibility for parents to object if they do not want their child to be followed. Can the Minister explain whether one of these two options is possible, so that the student concerned remains the owner of his data? Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal indicates that specific data are not included in the law, but are regulated by general administrative measure. Can the Minister specify in advance what dates are needed to achieve this, so that data minimisation and target binding are established by law? And can he promise that the Chamber will be informed if more dates are needed? I think that is the same as what Mr Kwint said. Finally, I have the question: how long can the data actually be kept? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u14	Thank you. I understand from the Minister that he can answer the Chamber directly. We welcome that and I am happy to give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u15	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber, and in particular Mr Rog, for the fact that this bill can still be debated in plenary. This seemed to be a hammer piece for a while, but looking at the content and scope of this legislation, it is good that we are discussing this with each other. It's about the personal data of students and students. It is important that we deal with this carefully. And that is not only because a GDPR entered into force a few months ago, on 25 May of this year, to be precise. No, we simply need to deal with this carefully and make clear what data we request, where they may end up and what they are going to be used for. That is also what this bill is about. We would like to make it easier, but that is not an end in itself, although it is always very nice if you can bring things that are complicated and complicated back to simplicity, as far as possible with subjects like this one. But we also think it is important to make it more transparent, especially for those who use the data and, in the case of children, also for the parents. It is also nice from time to time when things are a bit more flexible, knowing how complicated the trajectories are sometimes. If you see the need for a change, you still have to go through that whole trajectory. Mr. Chairman. Then make it easier. It's not about exactly what's in this schedule, but this is the situation now. We know that the registry provisions have all been incorporated into all kinds of laws. It is good to underline that. And what I'm pointing out now, that's what it's gonna be. You'll see right away that there's going to be a huge blow. We're just gonna put it together a lot more. The registry provisions we're going to place in this law are now spread over ten laws. It's very hard to see. If the bill were to be accepted by both Chambers in the near future, that is what we hope, of course, that it will be one law from which one AMvB and one ministerial arrangement will emerge. The second objective is transparency. It therefore provides a much more complete picture of the data collected and its use. Again, we think that's important. Mr Kwint also asked a question about the fact that we are regulating it in a law and that there will also be an AMvB. This also has to do with the fact that we can become more specific, because in the AMvB we can be very precise and I will come back to this later on separately. So it's very specific. That is something that is not happening in the current situation, with all the laws that contain those provisions. So we really see that as an improvement. I shall come back to the consequences of such an AMvB and what that means for the position of the Minister, who has just been made very large and important in Mrs Westerveld's contribution on this subject. There really are still a lot of'safety restrictions' around them, that's what I call them. But it is becoming more transparent. Because it is no longer spread over all these laws, it is much clearer where one collects data, who gets that data and what they are used for. So that's also neatly written out in those AMvBs. That can't be blackmailed. We can't suddenly do other things with it. No, it's about what's in it; it's got to be. Absolute clarity and transparency. It can also become more flexible. That too is not a goal within itself. But it happens from time to time that there are still issues of 'plugging up'..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the past, we had to add 'in that legislation'. You know how long legislative processes last. It'll take at least two years for you to get through that. We have really experienced that data was added, that changes had to be made and that it was ultimately just a hammer piece. In this case, there is talk about this law. Let me give you one example. If school doctors want to schedule school visits via BRON, everyone thinks that is a very good idea. Then it happens well. The data is being used. Those school visits and those researches should also take place. This is an example, but you can also think of other examples. You could take care of this in the AMvB. Then it just goes all the way, with all the due diligence. I'll get back to you in a minute. Then you'll have lost almost another year, even for the sake of care. But that's a little faster than a complete law should be in the revision. It will therefore be simpler and more transparent. This is also extremely important for parents, students and students. If necessary, it will also become more flexible under clear conditions. The AMvB in which it can therefore be described even more specifically what information is involved, for which it is to be used and who receives that information I see that as a clear added value........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's like, "That's convenient for us." No, you know how it is. An AMvB is modified. That's what happens in the Ministry, with all the advisors around it. Then we should specifically investigate the implications for privacy in these subjects. That happens, apologize for the English term, through the privacy impact assessment. This is a clear standard to check whether privacy points are met. And then the proposal for an AMvB for advice goes to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. It goes there, as you have seen in the comments she gave on the bill, with a great deal of scrutiny, and rightly so. They do what they do. Eventually, it goes to the Council of State. So the entire trajectory is being deployed. The involvement of the Chamber of Representatives, you know So it's not just pushing through. That too is a very careful process that needs to be followed and I would like to say straight away: that is a good thing with this kind of data too. With this law I will come back to a number of specific questions. We are really going to make a huge impact on making it simpler and clearer. That is a great deal of administrative burden for schools on a number of subjects. Where there is still a great deal of work to be done, it will be much easier to exchange. In addition, it will become more transparent and more flexible. At the moment when we would like to make use of this flexibility, i.e. the instrument of an AMvB, care is also explicitly guaranteed, including in the context of privacy. Of course, the legislation in this area also calls for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u16	Just to clarify, the Minister says: you know how it goes with an AMvB. It depends on whether the Chamber is involved or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u18	That's right, but that was exactly my question. Can we agree that if at least that basis is laid for the various applications, the Court will still have the opportunity to consider it, precisely because the distinction is made so clearly between the process, i.e. the law, and the possible places where it could be carried out? They are important to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u19	Of course, the Chamber can ask for that, if it wishes. You've seen the bill. It is ultimately up to the Chamber to indicate whether or not it wants to. So if you want, you'll have to see if you can get majorities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u20	I am familiar with the majority procedures in the Chamber, but I was curious to see what the Minister would be like. Does he see any serious reasons not to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u21	Mr President, once again. If the Court considers this necessary, there is, of course, a great deal of legislation that results from AMvBs. It is also up to it to decide whether or not it wants to. We do need majorities for that. That is an orderly way of doing things, so I would almost say that it is up to you and the Chamber to make statements about it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u22	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u23	Mr. Chairman. I think that we should also take account of the fact that when the Chamber uses such an instrument, it must also, of course, consider whether it sees that in the context of what is going to happen again in time and in such a way, in relation to the purpose it serves. Mr. Chairman. If this law is to come into force, as you have seen in the law, in Article 51, I would like to say that the evaluation is also expressly regulated, because it is indeed important to keep up with a law like this and the way in which we are hopefully going to start. An evaluation clause has been introduced into the law. Mr President, a number of specific questions have been asked. Let me start with Mr Rog. He's the reason we're standing here, so I'm the first to give him the attention he deserves. I go into the whole discussion about the opinion and getting back from the vo-school how it goes then those first three years when the student has received an opinion and went to a school. That's the execution of the motion. I heard Mr Beertema say that the motion is not being carried out. No, the motion will be carried out. It's part of this. It is true that the Chamber has specifically requested this and it has taken a while, but it is enshrined in this law that these data must also be returned. Well, "must be." At the moment, the situation is that schools are getting the data. Schools also know exactly where the students are going. Why do they know that? Because they are also required to file the student................................................................................................................................................................... To be transferred to the school to which the student goes. It's been taken care of at the moment. So the schools know which follow-up courses the students attend. The fact that we do not include that administrative number in the dataset now also has to do with the fact that you do not have to ask more than is strictly necessary. I am not saying that it is an enormous amount of data that we all collect, but if it is not strictly necessary, and this has to do with proportionality, then we have made the choice and the decision not to do so. Why, in our opinion, is it not necessary in this situation? Schools know where they're going about their students. The number of pupils who end up in another school is on the big total, I say not 'negligible', but still a very limited number. Those are students who sometimes move out. Maybe one of them's gonna get kicked out of school. I don't know if that's gonna happen these days, but you're gonna have to go to another school. Or you make your own choice: I don't feel at home here, I go to another school. But on the grand total, that really is a very small group. And to include such generic information in this law... Well, we've made the decision not to. Moreover, I believe that the way in which we now regulate it in the law is, in the end, much safer, also from a privacy point of view. Now this kind of information is very often sent by e-mail. Soon it will go neatly through DUO and there will also be all kinds of security safeguards around it when it comes to the exchange of data. So I clearly see that as a great added value. So, Mr. Rog, this is what we have considered, also in the context of the fact that because of the school advice and the whole file that goes with it, people are simply familiar with the further education. This law does not have as its main objective the promotion of equality of opportunity, but it is nice, I say to Mrs Westerveld and others who have talked about it, that such a technical law is actually about administrative exchanges and so it can strengthen an instrument. A number of years ago, the Chamber rightly asked for equality of opportunity to be further promoted and for good information to be provided, and that this information can also be used by the schools to think very carefully about whether their advice is correct and whether the pupils will end up in a good place. That also helps with the necessary quality improvement, which is a daily task for everyone who works in education, and also outside, I say right away. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Tielen has drawn attention to digital education and opportunities. In this respect, we must not make this legislative proposal any bigger than it is strictly intended, but it is of course very important that if digitalisation is to continue and, as far as we are concerned, we know that the curriculum review will also consider it, and that the school itself will have to get a place in education, in its administration itself, in a good digital way, and that the proceeds of the registers, because they are the registers, can also be used. As you know, the data can also be used very well for certification, for example. So it's not about educational content. This is, of course, taking place in another field. You know that, not so long ago, before the summer, we had a wide-ranging discussion on this subject. You know that, as far as we are concerned, schools will have to be further encouraged to do so. But also in administrative management, which is important, the school must go along with the times, making it easier, more transparent and more flexible. It is true that one of the registers has to do with absenteeism and premature dropout. This is a sec to ensure that students find themselves in a different row, for example in the case of early school leaving or something like that. So it's purely meant to have some grip on that. When dealing with school absenteeism, those bare figures are not very helpful, because there are no names and such behind them. We really don't want to end up in that area. There are other tools that are already useful for schools to think more specifically about the underlying causes and what they can do about them, if there is a great deal of absenteeism. You cannot use purely this data for that, but it goes without saying that the approach to school absenteeism for schools is a very large subject. It goes without saying that we would like to know what is going on. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Tielen has asked the question, which I would like to put to a question from Mrs Westerveld: should we or should we not allow this information? The handling of the data we are talking about is in principle already in practice. We are only going to organise it in a different way, with the addition that the feedback of data on the students from the vo-school to the p.o.-school will now be arranged in this way for the first time. But it was already practice that those data were simply requested. What we do here, whatever data we want to have, is completely GDPR proof. As far as we are concerned, it is important that we do not suddenly create the situation in which we say: well, say it; do you want it or not? In any case, this will mean a completely different situation in terms of administrative burden, including for schools and the whole field of education, but it could also undermine the objective of having this data in our possession. Because we really have an interest in not knowing just a little bit on average from a group where students have ended up, what problems might have arisen, whether they have all landed properly and whether the school advice was good. Well, then, averages don't do us much good. Then we should be able to know exactly. Then it's important that we get that data, too. Another point is that of the question put by Mrs Tielen, whether access is available. In any case, this law offers parents, students and students the opportunity to see exactly where it is. That's not shredded anymore, but it's in one place. They also know much more specifically through these AMvBs: hey, he gets that data from me and for that reason. That's just profit. That's very clear. Such access is already available, but someone can also ask the authorities at the personal level to give access to the data they have on that person. It is also the result of the GDPR's obligation to provide access to it. So that too is settled in a good way. Mr Bertema indicated that the Council of State was quite critical. That's right. That has also been clearly noted. The Council of State has expressly stated that it was better to regulate a number of issues in the law. This concerned the use of the special personal data and the appointment of the legal tasks for which the Minister may use the register. That's what we did in the end. So the Council of State has been well listened to. We have followed the points that the Council of State felt were better placed in the law. In the letter of amendment, you were able to find that. In this respect, we believe that we have fully complied with the intrusive opinions expressed by the Council of State in our direction in this legislative proposal. It is also good that we use the advice in this way. That's not just a mandatory number. It is also important to focus on each other and to weigh up what wisdom is when we are going to amend legislation, as is the case in this case. Mr. Chairman. I have just answered what Mr Beertema said about the parents. In particular, Mr Kwint has put the finger on the AMvB, and I think rightly so. He was wondering, how does that work? I just answered that. I understand that if it is a law that results from another AMvB, the impression can very quickly arise that things can be realized a bit easier and faster. Basically, that's true, as I just said. It matters in time if we make use of it, but that does not mean that care has suddenly disappeared, because this is subject to clear conditions. That can't just happen for a second. Mr Van Meenen has specifically asked how long these data are kept. There are clear deadlines for this. For the data we are talking about here, for example the feedback of vo and po, there is basically a period of five years. I think I've answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u24	Mrs Tielen will remind you that she would like another point answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u25	Exactly. Actually, two, if I may. I had asked the Minister if he would explicitly include a few points in the review of the law. Is he gonna come back to that? And what is the progress of the implementation after the bill, referring to ICT-like debacles, which we also discuss here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u26	We have, as I indicated, included in the law an assessment clause. If there are any desires to include certain issues in the evaluation, the Chamber can, of course, express them, but I would like to know, as I said to Mr Kwint, to what extent that is shared or not widely. But, of course, there is a careful evaluation. It is also very important to do so in this law, given a number of sensitivities surrounding it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u27	I had asked another question about the PO Council's request to return more specifically to which secondary schools these pupils end up in. The Minister has said something about the data, but I simply do not have a clear answer as to whether the request made by the PO Council was included and, if not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u28	That was my answer to Mr Rog, who looked very disappointed, because I indicated that we are not going to do so. I motivated that. That really has to do with proportionality. We're talking data here. If that data is necessary, and we can also demonstrate why we need this data, then I think it is important that we do so transparently and clearly and further regulate it in the law or in the AMvB. But if that data isn't strictly necessary, then I just don't want to do it. Then I think it is important to keep an eye on proportionality as well. Eventually, if we peel it off, they just know which secondary school they're going to. Then all we're gonna do is talk about those students moving or changing schools in the meantime. That's just a very small group. We have not chosen to include that generic again with all that data in the law. That's the trade-off we made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u29	Thank you. I am looking at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall then give the floor to Mr Rog for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for the answer. This law is just an improvement. I think we find that broad in this room. That was also the reason why we had initially registered him as a hammerpiece. But I still have some difficulty with the Minister's reasoning on the point that I have made and that by the boards in the p.o. has been brought forward. The minister says it's not strictly necessary. No, but it's helpful. In fact, it has been precisely a reason for primary school administration to take responsibility for following that pupil in the first three years of secondary education. The Minister himself, of all people, makes the argument that we will no longer do it via e-mail contact, which, according to the GDPR, is all extremely dangerous today, but via DUO. So I don't really understand what this minister's fear is. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a secondary school may, at the request of the primary school, provide information on the student's study results enabling the primary school to assess the quality of its school advice;]] [[noting that the present legislative proposal limits the transfer of data to the school year, type of school and learning path;]] [[Whereas the secondary school itself is an important factor in the analysis to determine the quality of the school advice, as without this information it becomes more difficult to determine the quality of the school advice;]] [[calls on the government at AMvB to ensure that the administrative number of the secondary school will also be part of the data set that is linked back to primary schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34878-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u31	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. We welcome the Minister's answers. We are especially pleased that he states so clearly that this new law is totally GDPR proof. In reply to my question whether it is true that this new law can be amended very easily and at any time, the Minister made it quite clear that this should be done through a careful procedure. But it is still not quite clear to our group why the Minister would reply rather evasively when asked what the role of the Chamber is in this. Can the Minister comment on this in the next reply? Shouldn't there be a pending procedure by default at the time the data is changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u32	Thank you. Mrs Tielen and Mr Beertema do not need a second term. Mr. Kwint does. Go ahead. You speak on behalf of the SP, let me add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u33	I am extremely aware of that, Mr President, but thank you for the reminder. Before you know it, a debate like this is gonna go south. Mr. Chairman. There's only one point left. That is the distinction between what is agreed by law and by underlying measure of governance. Not only do we think that the difference between these two is very large. The Council of State felt the same way. So the most common procedure seems to me to be that I am going to write an amendment to that effect, as the Minister suggested. He can guess what the meaning of that will be. That will be that there will be a pending procedure for the underlying measure of governance. I am counting on the warm support of my colleagues so that we can look again at whether the data entered in that register is not used for things that we do not want to be used for at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u34	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen. You don't have to. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u35	Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a question. I would ask the Minister to comment on the possibility for parents not to consent to the transmission of their data. Can we do that now? What's the deal with that, exactly? As for the retention period, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to protect children's privacy;]] [[Whereas apprenticeship data contain sensitive and personal information;]] [[Whereas the flow of information from secondary education can improve school advice;]] [[calls on the Government to make the retention period of apprenticeship data as short as possible in the general management measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34878-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its second term. I would like to say to Mr Rog that there is no fear. I have just explained that the word 'property' has ultimately made the difference between what is and what is not. That means I'm going to have his motion in part number one. 8 detachment. I would like to say this to Mrs Westerveld. I find it a bit patronizing sometimes to tell Members of Parliament exactly what they can or can't do, because I have been a Member of Parliament myself, a Member of Parliament who knows that too. If you see a law in which no veil is laid down when you do want a veil, then you do what Mr Kwint just announced: you submit an amendment. It is, of course, up to the Chamber to decide. It is to the credit of the Chamber that it wishes to follow this issue very carefully. I am not looking at such an amendment either, and I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber, if it were to come. Mr Van Meenen asked another question about the possibility for parents not to give their consent. I have just indicated that as far as everything we ask here and the data we want here is concerned, we are entitled to request and use that data. We think it is very important to be very transparent about this so that everyone can see what data is involved, who they may be given and what their purpose is. In the first place, I have also made clear statements about this. I have made it very clear that we do not think it is necessary to seek individual consent in all these situations. That kind of pulls the rug out of it when it comes to why we want and want to use that data. This is without prejudice to our view that parents, but first of all the students and the students themselves, must know where the data is and have full access to it. I think I have also made that clear: that is settled as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. If I take Mr Van Meenen's motion to item No. 9 to explain that, in fact, it indicates that the period I mentioned is very long and that we must bring it back to the point when the data must be kept and used in a reasonable manner, I leave it to the Chamber to judge. Then we will eventually take that into the AMvB and work it out. It is before us again, so you can also assess it again if the amendment is adopted. We'll just have to wait and see. It's even gotta be fixed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u37	Exactly. This brings us to the end of this debate on the Register of Educational Participants Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-22.u38	The vote on the legislative proposal, the two motions for resolutions and the amendment which may be tabled will take place on Tuesday 25 September. Then you all know it's only then. At 9:15 p.m., we will continue the 30-member debate on the report that a detective leaked to criminals.
