ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the attack on freedom of expression and the free press. I welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing the concept of fake news and the restriction of freedom of expression as a result of the task force set up by the European Union to smother the debate. That's what's happening here. The search for truth, for what facts are, for what exactly is the case and what is not, is the guiding motive of every free society. We are talking to each other on a daily basis, so are the people in the Netherlands. Each time you come across new perspectives, new discoveries. That is what makes scientific progress possible. That's what makes tolerance possible. That is what makes democracy possible. The fact that someone is going to determine what is true, what is factually correct and what is fake goes against all the principles of a free society that we stand for. And if you have a state that does, that's much worse, because a state has power over civilians. A state can slow down and suppress civilians. And the media in a free society should control the state, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u3	I agree with the latter. Mr Baudet would like a good ideological debate, so I would like to put a question to him. We have freedom of speech. That's what he's standing for. I stand for that, but the world is changing. And you'd like to base your opinion on something. That also means that the data on which you do so and the news must be correct. Does Mr Baudet agree with me that at this time, when the media is changing a lot, you should almost have some kind of right, in addition to freedom of expression, to hear the truth? That's a philosophical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u4	Yeah, I totally agree with the principle that the truth is important, that facts are important. If you were to ask anyone at random whether he or she is a proponent of falsehoods, he or she would of course say: no, of course I am not in favour of falsehoods. Only the question is what exactly are the truths. What exactly is it? We are constantly arguing about this. A lot of people in the Netherlands disagree on this. In a courtroom one sometimes spends months trying to figure out exactly what actually happened and then even years later they can find out "distorted, that person didn't do it" or "it was different." That quest for truth is the guiding motive of our pilgrimage through the ages. That is the holy grail, which we will never completely catch, but which we will always be looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u5	Finally, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u6	We do not agree with each other, because this is the first debate we can have on this, but it is an essential point. Do we not have the social task of ensuring with everyone who can contribute that we are not fooled by all kinds of powers from outside this country - state actors - we call that with a technical word - who want to manipulate us? You can say that the government should not do that, and perhaps I can come very far with you, but you cannot put the whole disinformation debate next to you and pretend that nothing is going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u7	I recognise that in the media there are constantly lies, disinformation, colored representations of things in every possible way. You just have to open up the NRC Handelsblad and pretty much everything you read about us isn't right. You only have to see a random speech by Minister Ollongren and hear what she says about us; the dogs do not like bread! There's a lot of untruth. There's a lot of spider. There's a lot of colored information. Recently I read a piece in Vrij Nederland about the youth movement of the Forum for Democracy. Well, I've really laughed the tears over the cheeks about the insane presentation of things being debated there. So I totally agree with you: there is a lot of untruth in the world. But I would never go so far as to say: I'm going to label that as falsehood, I'm going to impose sanctions on it. If you're the government, if you're a state, you definitely shouldn't. There is a good word about that, once attributed to Voltaire, although I do not think he ever said it: I disagree with you on the ground of my heart, but I will defend your right to say so. But we always make the exception, I also welcome the fact that it exists that you have the right to take criminal action against defamation or slander. After all, if someone deliberately spreads lies and slander on you, you can go to the criminal court. But in the Netherlands and in other free societies, the judge is independent. It is therefore completely independent of the Dutch government, so well even that, as you all know, we are currently involved in criminal proceedings with the Minister and an independent judge is going to consider whether she has indeed been guilty of defamation, slander against us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u8	It was Voltaire, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u9	So he didn't actually say that, but it was attributed to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u10	Yeah, it was attributed to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u11	It wasn't Voltaire indeed. We're gonna have to talk about that report against the minister some other time. I found it surprising to see that the petition that Forum for Democracy had started earlier to delete the articles was taken offline in one go after the trial. I couldn't find the petition anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u12	What petition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u13	The petition to change the law to extend the freedom of expression you started at the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u14	Yes, but that was about Article 137c and d. That's another article. Mischief is Article 261 of the Criminal Code. That's another article.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u15	Good. Mr. Kwint, what was the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u16	In that case, I will ask Mr Baudet, outside this microphone, once again what happened to the petition. Mr Baudet says: I stand for these freedoms; even if I fundamentally disagree with people, I stand for the freedom of people to express their opinion. How do you see in that light the call for the resignation of a teacher, what was it, an extremely left-wing hate teacher? I mean, even Gerrit Hiemstra had to be fired from you. That's pretty much our national hug meteorologist. How secure are these freedoms for you if you call for the dismissal of people too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u17	I never called for Ivar Gierveld's resignation. On the contrary, I have always said that I like to have a debate. That is a very important error that is being debated here. I said this must be denounced. I went to that school last week, too. Unfortunately, the lecturer in question wasn't present, or at least he didn't make himself known, so I haven't been able to exchange views with him. But I didn't call for the teacher's resignation. When it comes to the weatherman, I think there is a problem with the NPO in general in the Netherlands. The NPO is paid out of taxpayers' money. It's 900 million a year. The NPO is guilty of non-objective reporting time and time again. Part of that happens in the daily talk shows, in the NOS-Journaal and that sort of thing. That's all colored coverage. You also have it in the weather and in the way meteorological developments are designed. I believe that the State, and also the state broadcasting, has the task of being neutral, as neutral as possible. If we have a weatherman who is indeed in a very clear position in an incredibly complicated climate debate and who also has a company of his own that is well-deserved in pushing up the fear of climate change and so on, then there is a conflict or interest there. There really is a conflict of interests that should be much more mindful of. I think it is also very good that you bring it up, so let's talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u18	Mr. Kwint. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u19	Here's to it. After all, Mr Baudet needs a lot of words in order to ultimately not be able to explain why the freedom of expression, which he rightly applauded here, does not apply to Mr Gerrit Hiemstra. What's the problem there? Then why do you think Gerrit Hiemstra should be fired?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u20	Mr Baudet. A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u21	They were such interesting thoughts, I found myself, which I spoke out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u22	Mwah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u23	Because there is a difference between the NPO, so being in public service and having a conflict or interest in it, and defending freedom of expression in the free debate. I'll let anyone say what they want or what they want. I'll let anyone argue and defend whatever he or she wants. But that's true when you're a free actor. If you're in public service, if you're working for state broadcasting, there may be other situations. This is an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u24	I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u25	Perhaps Mr Kwint would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u26	No, it's okay. Maybe we can do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u27	Can I say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u28	You've just been here, Mr. Van der Molen. This is a 30-member debate, so you can't keep interrupting indefinitely. Mr Baudet was actually about a minute away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u29	I now hear Mr Baudet say that a person who is in public service would not be entitled to freedom of expression, as would a journalist who is paid out of public funds. That is, of course, the axe at the root of objective journalism, because that journalist must also say something that you or I are not waiting for. And that's what I see all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u30	It is a very interesting point that is being raised here. What is now being discussed here is that it is interesting to ask whether there should be such a thing as a state broadcasting in a liberal society in the end, or whether there should always be a possible conflict of interest there at any point. I think that is an interesting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u31	I also find it interesting, but that is rather because I simply did not expect this answer from any parliamentarians. If I understand correctly, Mr Baudet says the following about the NPO. Whatever he thinks of that, I think we could theoretically pull a whole end together. But Mr Baudet says: if the NPO exists and is paid with tax money among other things, then the journalists who work there, the reporters, the people who investigate there, have no freedom of the press and no freedom of expression; they should behave as we expect them to do and therefore should actually convey the messages that we consider to be correct. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u32	No, no, that's not how I would have summarized my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u33	Maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u34	Now I'm gonna do it briefly, it's not okay again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u35	No, this is too short!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u36	Perhaps Mr Baudet would like to take us along in how he would like to summarize his own words. I can really hear him say very clearly to my colleague from the CDA: well, interesting reflection; if an NPO is paid by the government with taxpayers' money, then freedom of expression and freedom of the press, on which our democracy, of course, relies, could be limited. "I think that a weatherman should talk the way I want to" and "I think that the news should mainly broadcast what I want," that is what is being heard at the moment. If that is not correct, I would like that corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u37	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u38	...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u39	Well, then I'll go to Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u40	Can't I just think about it for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u41	Okay. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u42	Well, why is it like this? I don't understand. Mrs Yeşilgöz asked for something, didn't she? Well, then, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u43	You wanted to think, but I don't know how long it'll take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u44	Yeah, well, can I just think about it for a minute and then respond? That's right...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u45	Yeah, you can, if it's short. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u46	Of course, most people here have already boarded everything up with informers so much that they are no longer reminded by questions. Um, look...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u47	Coffee?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u48	Let's suspend for five minutes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u49	Yeah, that's good. I'm fine with it. It's a very interesting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u50	No. No. Let's go... I suggest that... Sorry, this is a little weird. But a question has been asked... They're gonna ask me to suspend again. No, no. Come on! I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u51	Of course, there are two things that are separate from each other. The first is that we would determine what is and is not the facts and so on. That's what we're talking about right now. A second question, another question, is: within what range can NPO journalists confess to a certain conviction and then within the NPO also the NOS, so the news? I threw a bit of a stone into the pond there by saying: yes, this is not supposed to happen, that a weatherman takes such a position in a very complicated debate. I'm still in favour of that. How far do you have to go in there? I think it's an interesting point. I didn't immediately... I think we all agree that this always has a certain colour within a certain bandwidth. Pia Dijkstra is now in the Chamber for D66, but she was a newsreader for years. Is that a problem and to what extent do you, as a government, have to ensure that the NIS is neutral and so on? I didn't get that all ready, but I think we have a very interesting problem here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u52	Good. What do you want, Mrs Yeşilgöz?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u53	How do you see it, Mrs Yeşilgöz?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u54	She's gonna be next. Then you can interrupt her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u55	I am very pleased that Mr Baudet is using this space for philosophical reflection, but freedom of the press and freedom of expression are the foundations on which our free democracy is based. So I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u56	Yeah, okay. So suppose the NOS...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u57	I'm not done talking, Mr. Baudet! I think people outside have a right to know whether an elected parliamentarians supports freedom of the press or not. That's not a philosophical question. That's not an interesting reflection. I'm just curious if we share the same values about our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u58	This is another very rhetorical question, with "people out here" and all that. Suppose you have a newsreader who's going to read the news with a button that says "voice VVD." Then you can say, "But he has the freedom to dress as he pleases. That's just his dress style. He likes that." Then I think we all feel that this is a little bit problematic. That's one extreme. The other extreme is that you see here and there a personal preference that you think gives a little color to the NOS-Journaal or to the weather. Somewhere in between is the prudent attitude... You have to listen when I answer and not look on your phone, of course. Somewhere, I think and we all think, lies the prudent middle line of how the State should behave in relation to state broadcasting. In my view, this is a completely different subject from what we are talking about here, namely whether or not to refer to news as truthful or not truthful. That is really something other than someone expressing a personal political conviction and so on on behalf of the state journal. That's why I noticed that you might wonder to what extent it is sustainable in a free society to have something like a state journal at all. That's a very interesting question. Perhaps it is not the question that we should be discussing here tonight, but I am very open to it. I would strongly support a proposal to hold a debate on this issue. Perhaps we should conclude that it is ultimately incompatible: on the one hand, the neutrality of the State and, on the other hand, the fact that there is a state report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u59	Until then, we'll just have the public service as we have it now. We are holding a debate here at the request of Mr Baudet on the attack on freedom of expression. The question is whether he doesn't unleash it himself when he says that if you get a grant, I'll decide where your freedom of speech ends. I would ask Mr Baudet to distance himself from what he has just said, for the sake of freedom of expression and the free press he says he is celebrating here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u60	I don't think I'm saying that. I don't think I'm saying if you get a grant, I'll decide where your freedom of speech begins and stops. I do think that, as a Chamber and as a government, that is wider than I personally or whatever else has a role to play. This also includes all kinds of codes of conduct of the NIS and so on. It is therefore not the case that I am now calling in a vacuum that as a public service broadcaster you must have neutrality and present a broad and balanced spectrum. It is my firm belief, and I am not alone in this, that this has grown somewhat unevenly in the Netherlands at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u61	But then I hope to find Mr Baudet by my side when I say: we leave it at the NPO to settle that and we are not going to try to regulate it from the Chamber or from the box K. We leave it with journalism. They control us, we don't control them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u62	In part, I agree with you. We have presented on our site a ten-point plan for the reorganisation of the NPO. That's ten things, all kinds of things, that we can do. Among other things, party memberships should be made public. Among other things, there must be a form of feedback, in which people can say: listen, I do not feel well represented, I feel that there is one-sided coverage here and so on. This is therefore much more of a kind of Ombudsman who, as in some newspapers, monitors the level of reporting and so on. So as a state, you can do all kinds of things. Again, I believe that this is a different issue from what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u63	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u64	As a state, you can do all kinds of things to maintain that balance, which we all seem to think is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u65	I actually want to... Mr Snel, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u66	Mr Baudet is in any case served on the Ombudsman's behalf: he exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u67	I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u68	It does exist, only the degree of transparency and the degree to which people who look can put things there is very limited. Yes, I do. You should have a guarantee that you will receive a response and that it will be published publicly. We also have many other proposals, for example on boards of directors and so on. So I think that our reorganisation plan is pertinent and very important, and that we absolutely need to discuss it again. In fact, I think I should suggest that we talk about this quickly in a 30-member debate or a majority debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u70	The State may therefore in my eyes, and I think many share that with me, never make a claim to what is "the truth." The State can say in many ways that all kinds of state bodies must be politically neutral and politically neutral and so on. But the State must not say: this is the truth and not that. There is a second aspect to this. It is precisely the duty of the free media to control the state, the government. If Guy Verhofstadt, the high priest of the EU religion, tweeted on 22 May last, "It is up to the public authorities to determine what fake news is and what isn't," that worries me enormously. And it's not just the labelling, which in itself means a huge undermining of freedom of speech, because it means that all kinds of free media can no longer exist or lose advertising revenue and that sort of thing. That has already had a huge impact, but Stef Blok also stated in yesterday's Fact Sheet that the European Union is going to consider introducing EU legislation to force online platforms such as Facebook and Google to rank publications labeled as fake news much lower and thus make them disappear from the public debate. That's really unacceptable. It is an incredible undermining of our fundamental rights. Fortunately, two thirds of the House voted on this in a motion of March last, which states that the Netherlands must work to ensure that the hotline is lifted and that it is an undermining of freedom of expression. My aim with this debate is to jointly force the Minister to recognise that what is happening with that platform is undermining our fundamental right to freedom of information, freedom of expression, free debate and free news. If we manage to do so, I think it is entirely in line with the motion adopted earlier, then there will be pressure on the European Union. Then something really has to change and then we keep the free society that is so dear to us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u71	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Mr Sneller had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u72	Yes. The East StratCom Task Force was established at the beginning of 2015 at the request of the European Heads of Government, precisely because of the threat from Russia with fake news and disinformation. In fact, I can only hear Mr Baudet talking about the Dutch situation, while the primary objective for which we set up the task force is at the eastern border. What does he say to our allies there, for example in Lithuania?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u73	Enjoy the free society that is so dear to you, cherish it and do not abolish freedom in an attempt to defend freedom; that does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u74	They have given it a lot of thought, and they say, "We would like to help with that. We have a large Russian-speaking minority, which is vulnerable to this information war. Help us." And Mr Baudet actually says: figure it out for yourself. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u75	If 'find it out for yourself' means that we have a free debate where the truth can come out and where people are smart enough to figure out for themselves what they think is true and can also enter into the debate on it, if it means that liberal principle, then I support that idea. But of course the connotation of "I don't care" is "propose it yourself," and that is a misrepresentation of things. The free society is very close to my heart. Only you can't protect it by restricting free society...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u77	... and by saying: this is true and that is not. And there's another element.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u78	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u79	Over the whole of the world's history, competences allocated to problem a have always been extended by a sliding scale. A few examples of Dutch news that were presented to us as fake news did not turn out to be fake news at all. I mean that anyone even determines whether or not something is fake news is, of course, absurd. But even the EU Task Force has had to recognise that it was bullshit that they put that on it. So you create here a power that you can no longer control, a power that is far too dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u80	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The direct trigger for this debate was the discussion about the EU online database versus Disinfo. I honestly thought that the applicant for this debate, the Forum for Democracy, and we were pretty much on the same page, but I don't really know what line that is when the previous speaker says that the state shouldn't tell us what the truth is, unless we just have to tell it. I don't know. In the sense that it is about EU versus Disinfo, this debate is somewhat out of date, because the VVD and the SP have already arranged here in this Chamber that the cabinet is committed to the abolition of EU versus Disinfo. Because we were deeply concerned that a government body, in this case the EU, would want to interfere with the Dutch free press. The EU should protect the free press and not interfere with independent media. Fortunately, that found a majority of the parties in this house. I should like to hear from this Minister about the implementation of Mr Kwint's and myself's motion. I read in yesterday's letter from the Minister that the Netherlands is currently alone with the desire to abolish EU versus Disinfo. Can the Minister comment on how and where this wish has been expressed and show that there is no support for the lifting? What opportunities does it now see to effectively argue for the end of the EU's work versus Disinfo? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that, of course, we are not in favour of so-called fake news either. I can tell you from my own experience: if your words are distorted, if your points of view are ridiculed, enlarged or even misrepresented, that is quite frustrating and annoying. And yet I want everyone in this country to have the freedom to say or write down what they want, no matter how ridiculous. As long as the limit of slander and defamation, of hate-sowing or insurrection is not exceeded, freedom of expression is too important for us, if only because I prefer to fight idiotic ideas rather than shove them under the carpet. Of course, it is a good thing to use, for example, the East StratCom Task Force to expose state actors seeking to undermine the democratic rule of law. That is why we must protect our democracy. But when one then deals with the content of the free press and the free news collection, such as that EU versus Disinfo on its own news sites and newspapers are accused of fake news, the goal is completely missed. Because a journalist reporting to the Gelderlander meeting has nothing to do with a Russian state actor trying to undermine our democracy. It is clear from the BNC sheets that the European Commission defines disinformation widely, while the Netherlands' response clearly speaks of state actors or state actors. Can the Minister state whether there is indeed a difference of opinion here? As I have said, I take every opportunity to emphasise the importance of freedom and freedom of expression. As far as the VVD is concerned, no public body, whether it is a national or international body, should interfere with the content of our free press. Freedom of expression is a great asset that is not protected for nothing in our Constitution and in international treaties. We therefore find it very worrying that freedom of the press is under pressure in more and more countries and will continue to fight to protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u82	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The Tax Administration asks children for help with digital declarations," I read on the internet today, "because children are a lot more convenient with the computer." And last weekend I also read that South Korea uses a very original tactic on the World Cup football: confusing the opponent by using different back numbers. "Europeans have difficulty keeping us apart," said South Korea's coach. One of them is true. These examples indicate that it is difficult to see whether it is news or fake news. Sometimes the answer isn't that simple either; that just turned out to be from the debate. But it's not up to the government to judge what's real and what's fake. However, the government can encourage people to deal with news in a sensible way, or sometimes to do some research before they believe anything. Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate, as has just been said, was the fuss around EUvsDisinfo. Fortunately, however, a majority of the House stands for a free press without government interference. I don't care if things don't work out. Last week I asked questions about a journalist from the Brabants Dagblad. His phone records have been pulled and he's been bugged. Not because of a national disaster or a missing child. No, this was about the appointment of a mayor. Minister Grapperhaus acknowledged the D.A.'s error. But we still have a question about that, because the order did not say that it was a journalist, which is relevant. My question is therefore: did the judge commissioner know that he authorized the bugging of a journalist? I hope that this Minister will be able to respond to that. Let's talk fake news. International research shows that fake news spreads six times faster than real news. Technological developments are making manipulation ever easier and cheaper. Photos and videos are so cut and glued together, and a bullshit text is also sent. That is not something that can solve, for example, education alone. Previously, I tabled a motion with colleague Van den Hul calling on the cabinet to improve media awareness among adults. Has the cabinet already begun to implement this motion? At the same time, we were able to read in a report by the Rathenau Institute that there are risks and that the media wisdom in this country is lagging behind, and also that we know little about the way Dutch people follow the news. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this further? The Minister's letter states that the cabinet is committed to a strong and diverse media sector. And to give this an extra boost, the coalition agreement releases additional resources, as we read in the letter. Of course, it sounds promising, but if we take the coalition agreement, it turns out to be only 5 million. Is that enough to live up to the cabinet's ambitions? How can you guarantee an independent and diverse media sector with 5 million and stimulate investigative journalism? Mr. Chairman. I'm very curious about that. A free press is essential in a democratic rule of law. There are plenty of fine words, but GroenLinks has so far seen little concrete action by this government to guarantee free and independent press.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u84	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three months ago, a rather unusual cooperation between my party and the VVD led a majority of the Chamber to speak out against EUvsDisinfo, and to speak out against the interference of Brussels bureaucrats with what is good and bad journalism. That was necessary, because despite blundering, there was the call for this agency to be expanded. The cabinet went to Brussels with the announcement that we wanted to close this office, but found a majority against it. My first question to the cabinet is: why are so many European countries in favour of a Brussels assessment of what is good and bad journalism? And can the Cabinet at least guarantee that it will finally get its way, and the.. even though I have no reason to doubt it............................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because the point remains: the government must stay far from labeling good and bad forms of journalism. Unfortunately, however, this is not the only point where the free press is under pressure. We have already mentioned, for example, the drag law, which collects data in bulk, which can always include data from journalists and their sources. Can the Minister confirm this? As Mrs Westerveld said, last week we saw that the prosecution lacks any kind of urgency when it comes to eavesdropping journalists and violating their source protection. At the same time it became known that while international shareholders such as Mr Van Thillo of the Press Group fill their pockets with tens of millions, freelancers have to deal with the crumbs that fall off the table of those shareholders. Now perhaps you will say: what does that have to do with a free press? I'll explain that to you. A real free press is a strong press, a press that has the space and the power to really be critical of the skin. That's a press that exposes abuses, not a press that throws all kinds of crap online because of the clicks and advertising revenue. This model of the free press as a milk cow for foreign shareholders leads to a loss of that critical role. Moreover, there is clustering of a lot of media power in a few hands. For example, see Talpa's aggressive acquisition strategy today. How desirable does the cabinet think this is? And is the cabinet prepared to investigate how we can protect the pluralism of the media, not only against Brussels bureaucrats but also against Rupert Murdoch-like conglomerates? The big money can't hijack our news. Journalism must be strengthened and protected against the looting of shareholders with expensive suits and large villas. I'd like to hear if the Cabinet agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u86	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, no one doubts the fact that disinformation is a problem anymore. It has been playing on the eastern border of Europe for some time now, but also in the United States and in other European countries, Russia is spreading disinformation to undermine democracies and increase its own influence. Disinformation is nothing new in itself. If I am well informed, this term comes from the eighties, from Russian: dezinformatsiya. But the pace and the way disinformation spreads are new. That is not a reason for panic, but for alertness and appropriate measures. As far as D66 is concerned, we must do so by promoting media wisdom, encouraging pluralism of the media and increasing transparency. In the dissemination of disinformation, super platforms and social media play an important role as, sometimes paid, relay hatches. Facebook announced following the U.S. elections and investigations to make it clear who buys advertisements. I ask the Minister: what is the state of fulfillment of this promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u88	I suspect that the speaker believes that the doctrines of Catholic faith are false. Does he therefore consider that the dissemination of these teachings is a form of disinformation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u89	Well, I wouldn't categorically reject them all as fake news. I see the CDA's happy about that. On the second, my answer is also no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u90	Why not? Why isn't that disinformation? Why is telling about the story of Christ's suffering and resurrection and so on not disinformation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u91	I don't think that's so much the question. Mr Baudet actually blames me for saying that disinformation should not be disseminated, when I have not said at any point that we are going to ban it from the public authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u92	I was purely concerned with the definition. Does this fall within the definition of "disinformation"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u93	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u94	And why not? Why is it one when, in your opinion, it's not true, not disinformation and something else is, when you don't think that's true either?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u95	Anyway, I'm not gonna decide what disinformation is. That seems to me to be something we share. You were just trying to suggest that we are going to force public service broadcasting to determine what is and is not true, but that is something we are not going to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u96	You're just saying that a certain state actor is spreading disinformation? Then you'll decide what disinformation is, won't you? Then you have an opinion on the information, namely that it is disinformation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u97	As a category. I am not going to say from specific examples: this is disinformation and it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u98	But, then... Okay. Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u99	I just don't get it; I don't want to make a rhetorical point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u100	You can explain, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u101	So you're saying there's such a thing as information and inside there's some information disinformation. You're unbelieving. Then why is something which you clearly do not think is true, namely the doctrines of Christianity, not disinformation? In your opinion, that's disinformation, isn't it? I just don't understand why you're saying it's not disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u102	You ask if the teachings of Catholicism are disinformation. That's a completely different issue, isn't it? That's a lot of normative statements, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u103	Jesus was born on a certain day as a result of an immaculate conception. He died and resurrected from the dead, and so on. Those are statements about a particular historical event that are either true or not true. You believe that's not true. Then that's disinformation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u104	I think Mr Baudet used the word "belief." On the other hand, you have the interesting historical discussion whether or not that has happened. But I do not see the relevance to this debate and I do not see why the term 'disinformation' should be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u105	Then I'm going to see Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u106	Well, the D66 colleague is beginning to say that everyone agrees that disinformation is a problem. Then people ask themselves, at least I do, and I also think Mr Baudet is exactly the definition of disinformation. If you say two and two is five, is that disinformation? Should I be able to say that? Don't I just have the right to say that? Can't I just say that the earth is flat? That's the kind of thing I'm supposed to be able to say, isn't it? The government isn't about that, is it? It's not up to D66 to label things like that, is it? Surely it is not up to D66 to say that it is a big problem and that everyone agrees? Then what do we all agree on? Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u107	That there are certain state actors who see the dissemination of disinformation as part of their military strategy and use it in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u108	But that is disinformation: state actors and part of a military campaign? Because the VVD just said, "Yes, sometimes they write weird things in the paper about me that don't add up." So that example is not disinformation, I understand. I'm trying to get the definition straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u109	No, I said why disinformation is a problem. That is, in the context of the debate we are having here and when it comes to EUvsDisinfo, that there are certain state actors who are trying to undermine democracies in Europe by actively disseminating disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u110	Here we go again: certain state actors. In yesterday's letter from the Minister, one state actor is mentioned. That's Russia. Is this about state actors in general or, as the D66 Minister says, specifically Russia? What's it about? What's the definition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u111	I do not think it matters what the definition is when it comes to using it to undermine democracies. I believe that this is a problem, whether it comes from terrorist groups or from state actors. And yes, Russia is the most notorious example of that. If Mr Bosma and I do not agree on this, it is worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u112	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u113	It certainly is, because D66 moves and trades with that definition. This minister accused me of using disinformation. I'm just a civilian or something. politician. So apparently you can also distribute disinformation as a citizen, I read from the Minister's words. The Minister's letter deals specifically with Russia, but according to the D66 Group, it could also involve other state actors and now also terrorist organisations. That's totally new. I didn't read it in the papers. Is that right? So that definition is constantly changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u114	No, I am just saying a few times to Mr Bosma that it is part of the definition that disinformation is used by various actors, including state actors, to undermine European democracies and that this is a problem. He's asking me about my starting line. That was my starting line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u115	I see you again, Mr. Baudet. You may ask one question... No? Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u116	In the Netherlands, I do not think we need any further help from the East StratCom Task Force. The missteps of EUvsDisinfo in respect of some Dutch media have already been mentioned. But Russia pays hundreds of millions a year for this information war. Countries with a significant Russian speaking minority are particularly vulnerable to this. In 2015 the Heads of Government decided jointly that the EU should arm itself against this new way of warfare. A laconic attitude doesn't suit us, as far as I'm concerned. In February, I called for EUvsDisinfo to be reformed, to strengthen its functioning and to better serve its original objectives. This means, for example, avoiding interference in the free, independent press by choosing a different establishment, a more resource-intensive and more geographical approach, by focusing efforts on those places where the threat is greatest. I read that the Minister's plea for the abolition of EUvsDisinfo, at the request of a majority of the Chamber, has not yet been echoed by our European partners. I do like to hear the Minister or other countries say that they are in favour of reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u117	When D66 came to zero seats in 2006, Prime Minister Erdogan was Prime Minister of Turkey then launched an action through the Diyanet mosque, calling for D66 votes. As a result, D66 still entered the Lower House with three seats. Did that action of Erdogan, then Prime Minister Erdogan, affect the dissemination of disinformation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u118	I really do not know enough about the specific call that Mr Bosma seems to have on the retina. I was just trying to say to Mr Baudet that we should not judge, as a policy, what is and is not disinfo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u119	But D66 does, doesn't he? D66 says it's a big problem. Then I just ask: what exactly is the problem? Just define that problem. D66 has returned to the Lower House thanks to Erdogan's disinformation. That's well-known information. It had to do with the Armenian genocide. Mrs Koşer Kaya has had her seat. My question is very simple: was that disinformation? It meets all the elements mentioned earlier by my colleague from D66: European states, state actors and so on. Then that was disinformation, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u120	I can see that Mr Bosma is more likely to place that judgment on something than I am. So I would like to leave that with others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u121	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u122	Who's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u123	Finally, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u124	But when you say "we have a big problem" and then they ask "what exactly is the problem?"', Can't you get away with saying that other people have to define the problem? There seems to be a very big problem. D66 says hundreds of millions must be spent to counter that. Then you ask, what's the problem? And then it's said that other people have to define the problem. What exactly is the problem? The VVD says, sometimes there are things in the papers that don't add up. Is that the problem? Is it Putin? Are they state actors? Are they terrorist organizations? What exactly is the problem? What exactly is the definition of 'which is a danger to democracy and must be combated'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u125	Mr Bosma is now putting all kinds of words in my mouth. I'd like to leave that with him. But I would advise him, for example, to read the charges of Special Prosecutor Mueller. Then Mr Bosma will see what the Russian government has been trying to influence the elections there. There are a number of very good examples that I think would fit in with his definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u126	In the view of the speaker, is it true that only Russia is using this strategy? Or is it an overall strategy that in fact applies to all countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u127	Neither. It is not just Russia and it is not the case that all countries use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u128	Which other countries do that, except Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u129	In any case, I know that Russia has fairly clearly positioned it as part of the strategy. In the debate, Mr Baudet also mentioned EUvsDisinfo. This was established in response to Russia's attempts to undermine European democracies. That is also what I think this debate is about and what it focuses primarily on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u130	Well, no. This debate is about whether such an organisation has the right to exist. There are all kinds of issues. First of all, what are we even talking about? What is the definition of disinfo? Indeed, this organisation is exclusively directed against Russia. The objective of EUvsDisinfo is to counter Russian disinformation, i.e. Russian narrative. Then the next question is a very logical question. If you accept that there would be such a thing as disinfo... I'm not. I do not think that, as a state or as a state actor, the EU is, of course, a state actor at all. But what if you do? You seem to think that's okay. Why, then, should it only be directed against one state and not against Turkey, for example? Why not against China, for example? Why not against North Korea or against the United States, or against the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u131	That is what I said to Mr Baudet in an earlier debate of interruption: the countries bordering Russia, which are sensitive to this undermining, have asked for help from the European Heads of Government. As far as I'm concerned, we're responding to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u132	I shall now turn to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u133	What makes this rather confusing debate clear, however, is how terribly complex it is to put the stamp "fake news" on a certain expression. Does D66 agree with me that the path that is now being taken and the path it is leading, namely to strengthen an agency that has exactly that objective, when within ten minutes we have absolutely no idea what is or is not fake news, is actually a hopeless road that the EU should keep far away from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u134	I think we should organise this more remotely from the government, but I think it is very important that it is targeted and supported by the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u135	Then maybe we'll get somewhere. Do you agree with me that the way it is organized now, namely Brussels bureaucrats who turn on television in the morning and then put a stamp on news broadcasts, is too close to the government and that, for example, it is better to join other initiatives? I've mentioned it before. I believe that Alexander Pleijter at Leiden University is working on mapping from journalism how information comes to us and what is true of it. Do you agree with me that this is a way that makes more sense than this ever-expanding Brussels hobby club?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u136	I think the more civil society and journalists and scientists pulling up is a much better way, yes. I fully agree with Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u137	Finally, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u138	That's not my question. It's not about pulling up with. It's about where you put the primate. Is it primarily the European Union's task, for example, to do so, or is it primarily the responsibility of journalists and universities to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u139	It should primarily be the task of universities and journalists to do so. But in those countries that say that they do not yet have that infrastructure, when it is an acute problem, I think that we should support it from the EU. If it requires an EU agency to support it, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u140	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now turn to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u141	Mr. Chairman. I loathe what you say, but I will defend your right to say it with my life. So Voltaire already talked about freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u142	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u143	There's a discussion about this. Yes, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u144	D66, the party of intellectuals, arrived last week with this quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u145	But you don't think that's entirely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u146	But Voltaire never said this, so let's think of something else on that tear calendar or quote another Delft blue tile, but not this hypothetical. This is fake news, fake news. Disinformation, Chairman. If D66 finds out about this, we're gonna hang.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u147	It is attributed to him, but it is indeed a discussion of whether it is Voltaire's. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u148	The first fake news I've distributed is another fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u149	We also have a tear calendar here, by the way, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u150	We're gonna look it up. In his time there was a lot of criticism both underground and above ground of censorship and political leaders who wanted to influence written and spoken words. However, the Netherlands had to wait until 1848 for freedom of the press enshrined in the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Freedom of the press is freedom of press, the fundamental right to make feelings and thoughts public or public. It's there for everyone. But even today it is under pressure and it is still too often trampled. The NGO Reporters without Borders, who conducts worldwide independent research into the freedom of the press, therefore comes with a warning that is in line with the strong signal given by the report A threatening climate, initiated last year by the Dutch Association of Journalists, that the polarization of public opinion on immigration, race and our national identity has sharpened the debate. As a result, messages are quickly removed as fake news and journalists are framed as unreliable. Under the guise of the threat of the many terrors, in a country like the Netherlands, the government tends to form censorship and intimidation that do not suit a country that is so committed to tolerance and freedom of expression. In the meantime, we have a government that would rather eavesdrop on its citizens, including journalists, than listen to them, through the drag law, the much discussed Wiv in this house, but also simply through the public prosecutor, such as the painful bugging of the journalist of the Brabants Dagblad who was brought to light last week. The D.A. has not only requested the journalist's phone records, but has also tried to record a conversation between the reporter and the suspect. Well, so much for freedom of the press and the protection of sources. How does the Minister intend to protect the freedom of the press if the government itself treats this fundamental right so shamelessly? I'd like a response. Fortunately, a recently published report by the Media Commissioner shows that Dutch citizens are relatively little concerned about fake news and therefore have a relatively high level of confidence in traditional media. But that trust also includes responsibility, and according to the Party for the Animals it is pinching. Because much too often the journalism shows itself to be the lackey of power. We do not blame this on the laziness or disinterest of the journalist; it is the government itself that is no longer able to increase as a reliable source. It has become a party trying to avoid the commercial interests that have hijacked it as much as possible. Let me give you a simple recent example: the dividend tax deficit. As with the need to limit lobbyists' ability to influence government policies, there should be a ban on the close relationship between parliamentary journalism and the government, so that the press can once again be fooled by power. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u151	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Voltaire said it already...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u153	...in an exchange of letters with Jean Paul Sartre, who never replied... No, I'm not. Fake news, chairman; we hadn't heard that cry in a while. And it all started out so big and compelling. For the viewers at home: who is "great and compelling"? This minister had just begun, and she jumped on her horse and promised to fight the windmills. Putin said things that weren't true. Yes, the Netherlands was in danger and "La Ollongren" went to protect the country. Via the pages 1, 2 and 3 of de Volkskrant she put on her greatest pants. Klaroengschal, ketches, Wagner; it was D-day all over again. The damsel went on the beach of Normandy in her uppie; democracy is worth something, something great was done here, history was written here, statues would be erected for this. But just before the minister went to slaughter the dragon, it became silent, dead silent. The war of this minister on her horse died silently. It went out like a night candle. Apparently, the great danger that our democracy was going to eat was not such a great danger. As if someone had said to this minister: calm down Karin, there is no ghost under your bed; you have dreamed. The Chamber adopted a motion: stop that stasi called EUvsDisinfo. Stop judging that club that's amateurish from the living room or the bedroom TV shows and handing out minutes to people who say things aren't right. Why isn't that motion just being carried out? If the Netherlands has nothing to do with that club anymore, we just don't want anything to do with it. But then all the fighting seemed to have flowed out of the minister. Mr. Chairman. What exactly was the problem? At first, Ollongren accused citizens and politicians, including myself, of spreading fake news. When my group asked for a definition of fake news, it was'state actors', so governments. And now there is a third description, because yesterday's letter refers to 'a constant flow of disinformation from Russia'. Ah, it's Russia! And yesterday's sheet, Minister Blok, uses an even broader definition, or rather a description. Mr. Chairman. That story about fake news is dangerous. It is being used to restrict our freedoms. See yesterday's letter from Minister Blok. The state becomes judge of what is true and what is not. 1984, Nineteen eighty-four. Cut the dangerous bullshit! If Russia says things that don't add up, let the Secret Service handle it. If there is "a continuous flow of disinformation from Russia," then come up with a constant flow of evidence. The claroon noise of this populist minister has brought her nothing but the red lantern, i.e. her increasingly firm position as the most unpopular minister in the Netherlands, for which she deserves all the praise. That's not fake news, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u154	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u155	Mr. Chairman. It is good to talk about disinformation, good to do this debate and better to talk about disinformation than about fake news; that already comes a bit towards a definition. I've been through debates with this minister about being a murderer. But if you look at what the real assassin is when it comes to fake news and disinformation, that's the fact that journalism is under pressure from all kinds of developments. Because journalism is under pressure, people don't know exactly what they can trust anymore and what they can't. The confidence in journalism is in any case that they investigate and deepen things well. If that goes wrong, they'll be hung out to dry. And that's the way it should be. It is therefore all the more worrying that the club we have been talking about several times this evening, EUvsDisinfo, in the Netherlands, was targeting the journalists we should talk about in the end. Fortunately, there are a number of very positive things in the coalition agreement. First of all, the cabinet wants to invest in investigative journalism. $5 million will be made available. You can say that's too little, but at least we have a massive injection more. It goes towards local and regional media, where it is also important that there can be investigative journalism. It looks from the cabinet at what should be the earning models of well-oiled journalism of the future, because we need them to give us a little bit of that right to truth. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is also part of the freedom of expression that you base your opinion on things that are well chosen and can pass the test of criticism. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that the cabinet is not putting aside the fight against disinformation after this blunder, because the AIVD and the STIVD warn us in reports that there are indeed state actors who try to disrupt things with wrong information not only here but also in other places. We cannot allow this to continue, even if Europe regularly shoots a goat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u156	Did I hear Mr Van der Molen talking about state actors, plural?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u157	There's nothing wrong with your hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u158	What kind of actors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u159	You have just asked Mr Sneller that question. I speak of plural because I speak for my statement of the reports of the AIVD and the STUDY. If there are parties that can get to the bottom of something, it's them. They speak of plural, but they also speak of Russia specifically. I think that has to do with the fact that we know by now that that is a country that is most active in this wrong branch of sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u160	Was the presentation of Colin Powell to the Security Council in which he argued that Saddam Hussein's Iraq had weapons of mass destruction and that the United States had conclusive evidence of this, while he knew, so it turned out, even in his memoirs, that it did not, an example of disinformation? Was that an example of a state actor who, with a view to preparing a military operation against another country or not, distributes false information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u161	I'll just have to take it out of my memory. Even the current President of the United States, in debates around elections, has once again indicated that the information that was shared there was not correct and that the information that was not correct was used as a basis for fighting against the international community. You just had a little debate about what disinformation is. If that is deliberately misleading information to influence public opinion, but deliberately misleading, then I can in any case conclude afterwards that wrong information has been shared there. That has had a very big impact. That is why it is important that when we see state actors trying to influence us again on non-actual grounds, we try to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u162	So you acknowledge, I agree that that was an example of disinformation. Is that right? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u163	Not in the definition we use now in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u164	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u165	Every time you try to use examples from outside the scope of this debate, you try to do something about that definition. I am fine with that, but if I go into it in that context and then have to go back to the story, it creates confusion rather than that it makes something clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u166	Why? This is exactly the definition, isn't it? "A stately actor who deliberately spreads falsehoods to serve a political purpose." That's your definition, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u167	Whether or not that is the same as what is being shared in a United Nations Security Council, I cannot judge at the moment. What I base my position on on on behalf of the CDA Group is the subject before me. That is what we see, on various points in the past, and our security services say that we should not underestimate that, that there are countries that are still trying to influence states or public opinion through all kinds of channels. We can take action against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u168	I think it's really very important, this point. So what you are actually seeing here is that at that time, at that time, all kinds of Western security services, including the Dutch, went along with the disinformation story of the United States. They even participated in that war at some point. We now know it was all bullshit. We are now giving a state, the Dutch state, the EU state in the making power to decide what is true what is not. So what do we see? Western states too seem to be guilty of spreading disinformation. We are now going to give those Western states the power to determine which critical journalism is disinformation. You can't trust the state. That is the lesson we have learned in recent centuries and again in recent years. That is why we need free press, and that is why the state should not interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u169	You may respond, or I shall go to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u170	You always postulate a theorem. I would like to respond to that, but I will address questions in particular. Perhaps Mr Bosma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u171	Mr Baudet is asking for an answer. There's no question about that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u172	Then there is the point Mr Baudet mentioned. We can indeed make it very broad and say that different countries naturally have means for influencing public opinion. His statement is perhaps that, because Western countries have also shared information in the past that was not correct, Russia should now also have a free job. I refuse to accept that. I do not want to give Russia free space when it comes to influencing our society. The protection of democracy is, as far as the CDA is concerned, to build and support a critical journalism without journalism, democracy does not function as such, but also to prevent other state actors trying to disrupt our society. I'm not making any excuse for trying to do that. And if there is much to note about how the European Union is doing that at the moment, I share that with you, but I think you are exaggerating about what powers there are currently in this club or in the Commission's policy when it comes to influencing our journalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u173	Then I'm going to see Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u174	Well, the latter is a very interesting position, because if the CDA says "we do not want foreign powers trying to influence opinions here," then I assume that Mr Van der Molen also advocates the closure of all the Diyanet mosques, because Erdogan uses them for example to recruit votes for his party, but also to bring his ideas to the fore here. So I assume the CDA, like my party, says, "Let's close all the diyanet mosques."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u175	In a completely different composition, you must have a lot of debates with CDA spokesmen who are as critical as you are about the influence of Diyanet and the foreign funding of mosques. The CDA is certainly not the party that lags behind in that regard. But the conclusion you draw that then all mosques should be closed in advance is certainly not one that the CDA shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u176	I wasn't talking about all the mosques. I was just talking about Diyanet. Russia must be tackled for all kinds of reasons, but Turkish mosques must not be addressed. So that's what the CDA says. They just need to stay open. That is what Mr Van der Molen says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u177	So far, I have never understood that the PVV would be selective in closing mosques.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u178	No, but I'm gonna take this subject up now. It's just one example: the Diyanet mosques. Anyway... Anyway. Something else. Mr Van der Molen just said in his speech that Russia was going to what did he call it? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. When I look at the AIVD's annual report, which Mr Van der Molen undoubtedly read since he is also a spokesman on that file, it says that the AIVD has found no hard evidence that Russia has tried to influence the elections in the Netherlands, for example. If Russia and Putin were to make themselves heard somewhere, that is the theory of disinformation, then it would be around elections. But if Putin isn't even interested in influencing our elections, what exactly is the problem? Can Mr Van der Molen give us three clear examples, not in Lithuania, not in East China, but simply in the Netherlands, of three websites, three news or three stories that have helped the world with which Russia has tried to influence public opinion in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u179	We are talking about a European approach here for a reason. I agree with Mr Bosma that the examples of influence in the Netherlands are fortunately not very extensive, especially when it comes to elections. This does not mean that Russia has not tried to influence Catalonia's independence referendum in Spain. If you want to say that one has not tried...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u180	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u181	... to influence the elections in the United States, if you claim that there are no indications that Russia has tried to influence the Brexirefementum in the United Kingdom, then you also ignore all knowledge. Above all, I assume that the AIVD and the STUDY say that we should not underestimate it. These people won't write that down very easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u182	Now I get it. So we're solving a Catalan problem. We're solving an American problem. We're solving an English problem. But the Netherlands has no problem with something that cannot be defined. So where exactly is the problem? The problem is obviously not there in the Netherlands, except perhaps in the future, and we cannot define the problem. That's a bit of what we're wasting our cozy evening while Russia's playing Egypt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u183	I don't know. I really enjoyed your contribution. At least I wouldn't describe that as a waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u184	It's a very interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u185	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, I'll speak after you. For example, we recently had a discussion with this minister on the intelligence and security services and on the position of the Amsterdam junction in Internet technology. In a publication, a research journalist from De Groene Amsterdammer has indicated that there are a lot of abuses there, that there are much easier servers to rent here from Russia, that from there also disinformation is spread in other countries, and that we as the Netherlands also have a responsibility to act against, because we are that node. Again, I take that very seriously. I also take Russia's influence very seriously. So I welcome what we have to do in the Netherlands to counter that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u186	Were you almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u187	No, I wasn't quite finished, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u188	Then I suggest you finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u189	I had a few more questions, because I thought that the Minister shouldn't be sitting there all for bacon and beans tonight either. The chip that came into the Chamber at 9:30 last night is an informative one. This is very much about what the European Union intends to do in particular. There are a few things in there that I would like to ask the Minister about. It says, for example, that the Commission wants to implement a strategic communication policy. That was also where EUvsDisinfo went wrong: not only did we look at the facts, but we also wanted to defend European policy. Then you're confusing two things that I don't think belong together. If I have to read this as a 2.0 of that strategy again, I would like to distance myself from it. It says in the paper that the Cabinet is working until the summer to raise awareness about this whole fake news discussion. Personally, I haven't noticed much about that. Perhaps the Minister could give us some more information on that. As far as the CDA is concerned, the Minister is right to say that there should be no European legislation. Would she at least give one example of what other colleagues of hers might be walking around with and what she does not want to do at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u190	Thank you. This was the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for about five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u191	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also, of course, like to thank all Members for their contributions to the first term of this 30-member debate. Although not many questions have been asked to me, I think it is an important subject. I would therefore like to use the debate to highlight a number of issues which I consider important, not only for the cabinet, but also for this Chamber. This is, of course, about our democratic legal order and our open society, which are built on a number of foundations, namely the free press, freedom of expression, free and fair elections and the rule of law, i.e. the fact that the government is also bound by the law. It is of course a good thing that there is a lot of attention to this, here in the Chamber, in the media and in the public debate, because that is always important. It's not self-evident. We need to protect those values, and we need to maintain them. Let me stress at the beginning of the debate that freedom of expression and the independence of the press are fundamental principles for this cabinet. It is a right enshrined in the Constitution, in treaties, in EU law. The importance of the right of every citizen in the Netherlands to express his or her opinion in any form whatsoever without prior leave to do so is undisputed. This also applies to the importance of free news gathering and, therefore, to free press. It was also said here today: the press is not seen for nothing as the watchdog of any democracy. This is also emphasised, for example, by the European Court of Human Rights. So, to begin with, I really stress that this principle is central to me. Then there's that unwanted influence by state actors. The fact is that time has changed and new technologies have made it easier to disseminate information and also to disseminate disinformation and thus to influence public opinion. This can undermine people's confidence in public institutions, and that is potentially detrimental to the democratic rule of law. Its protection, where free and fair elections are, of course, crucial pillars, is essential. That is why we have said that we really want to pay attention to this, because it must never be the case that this right is abused by state actors who would like to disrupt or influence the debate in the Netherlands. That is why, in a joint letter from me and Mr Grapperhaus of 16 March last, the cabinet also said about undesirable foreign interference: we want to combat collusive influence on public opinion by state actors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u193	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mr Baudet, but I would very much like to know how the Minister has built up her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u194	Because there weren't so many questions, I prepared part of my story in an introduction, but of course I'm going to answer some questions. I just need a moment for my introduction, but I'm fine with being interrupted in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u195	I agree. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u196	I heard the Minister speak of "state actors." That's plural. What states is she thinking of?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u197	I say'state actors'..... you will find this in the reports...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Russia is often mentioned, but we are also aware of the fact that other countries try to influence or collect information in different ways in the Netherlands. This could be aimed at influencing, economic espionage, potential disruption by cyber interventions. So it's actually about a wide range of activities from a wide range of countries as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u198	What countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u199	You can review the annual reports. In terms of influence and also in all the other activities I have just mentioned, it is a question of being vigilant ourselves and of knowing about which countries are involved. But it's mainly about protecting the Netherlands from this kind of activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u200	What countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u201	That is Mr Baudet's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u202	Yeah, which countries? Look, I don't want to point a finger at anyone right now. However, I would like to point out that we are all responsible for the Netherlands, but in fact we are responsible for all the countries of the European Union; in any case, we are aware that we are vulnerable in this respect. We also know that there are countries in the world that look at that differently. That is what we must fight. Instead of talking about those others, let us talk about what we can do in the Netherlands and in Europe to prevent us from being put under pressure by other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u203	So it's all countries in principle. All countries may be covered by this definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u204	Fortunately, all countries are not engaged in this type of activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u205	Good. Then I suggest that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u206	No, but wait a minute, because this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u207	Not "wait a minute." Not like this! You can just wait a minute. Then I'll take a look at the Minister and see if she has anything to say about this. Otherwise, I actually want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u208	My punchline's still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u209	You need a very long run!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u210	Yes, if the Minister does not answer my question, I must repeat it several times, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u211	Well, ask your question, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u212	The point is that the organisation we are talking about today, EUvsDisinfo, focuses exclusively on Russia. It's in this organization's mission statement. It is only factually incorrect information that would come from Russia. One of the reasons why this is so relevant is because it has a very clear position in an issue that is much more complex than that alone. We have found that Turkey is guilty of trying to influence public opinion. With all kinds of information flows, we have found that the United States is doing so. Why only Russia? And why does the Minister deny that there are two states in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u213	I was still generally aware of how our democratic rule of law can come under pressure from outside influence. I come to the European approach and the European proposals which, for that part that Mr Baudet is talking about, are indeed also about Russia as a specific example of something that has been victimized by a number of European Member States. So Mr Baudet is absolutely right. But at the same time, for example, the annual reports of our security services and the letters sent by the cabinet are not just about Russia. They are indeed also about the Turkish authorities, about Eritrean authorities, about Chinese... Well, I can list a whole series of countries that we have specific signals about in specific circumstances. If I may, I would now like to continue with the European approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u214	Yes. Actually, I was gonna suggest that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u215	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u216	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u217	The Netherlands is not alone in this approach. This is a point that has the attention of many European Member States and of the European Commission. The European Commission has therefore ensured that proposals have been made to address this information. This is particularly true of the European Commission's recent communication on the European approach to disinformation. This communication was based on an opinion of the High Level Expert Group on Fake News, established by the European Commission in 2017, which consulted journalism and media companies on this issue. Some people have just said that it is also stated in the recent cabinet letter that, because of the cross-border nature of online news, the cabinet is in favour of giving attention to this in a European context, but always with respect to freedom of expression and the free press, because they are crucial. So it is not up to the government, nor is it up to European institutions, to determine the truth of news or to draw conclusions from it. The same applies to the fact-checkers proposed in the Commission's communication. This is about a network and about a European online platform. But these initiatives must always be independent of the public authorities and the European Commission. They should focus on what stakeholders themselves want. They should focus on independent journalism and the media themselves. They need to focus on the universities. They need to focus on the people who know how to do that. They must be given maximum space and not hanged from the EU or a state. That is what the Chamber has been able to read in the Dutch position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u218	I actually want to know if this point has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u219	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I will, of course, go into the questions that have been raised about Mr Kwint's motion and Mrs Yeşilgöz's motion. In a way, he's also talking about this. But this is what I wanted to say about the European Commission's communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u220	Short, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u221	But the organisation we are talking about today, EUvsDisinfo, is an organisation set up and paid for by the EU, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u222	That is exactly my next point. This is about the Kwint/Yeşilgöz motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u223	Then I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u224	Then I have another question. It is also relevant, but it is a different point from that of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u225	No, Mr. Baudet. I would suggest that this point be dealt with first. Then you will have an opportunity to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The European Commission's communication on a European approach to disinformation also affects the work of the EEAS, the European External Action Service, and thus that of East StratCom, which we were talking about when we were here at the beginning of this year. Mr Blok and I put in the letter that there is a distinction between, on the one hand, the competence of the European Commission and, on the other hand, the competence of the EEAS, which is the responsibility of the European Council, namely in the field of foreign affairs and security policy. That distinction is important, also in the light of the motion by Mr Kwint and Mr Yeşilgöz. It's about EEAS. It's about EUvsDisinfo making mistakes. Therefore, the cabinet has been asked to give a firm opinion on this and to make an effort to lift the website. Of course, the cabinet did. The motion has been adopted and we have said that we are going to implement it. Following this, the cabinet raised this issue in relevant Gremia in Europe and Brussels, in contacts with the other Member States and in bilateral contacts. We have always taken the starting point of what the cabinet always uses as a starting point: the independence of journalism must be respected at all times and we do not want an institutional role or a role of government in monitoring that disinformation or in verifying information. Mr Blok and I have noticed that, although there is an understanding of the position of the Netherlands, for the time being we are alone in the desire to remove the EUvsDisinfo website. Then of course you wonder: why is that? Our interpretation of this is that other Member States weigh the threat of state actors, including Russia, more heavily. But the cabinet will continue its efforts. We will continue to draw attention to it in the appropriate Gremia. We will try to find support for what the Chamber has requested. Mr Sneller added the question of whether there might be support for reform in other countries. In any case, it is not a formal position, because it has not yet been on such an agenda that further professionalisation, which means that mistakes that have been made, could no longer be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u227	If the EU decides whether or not to renew the employment contracts of the people working for that website, is it not an independent organisation? Surely you cannot maintain that it is an independent, neutral organisation when the EU decides whether or not that organisation will continue to exist and when the EU pays the salaries of those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u228	I think it's okay to pull two things apart. One: the Chamber has adopted a motion asking for the website to be lifted as such. There's no support for that. And two: how does the unit do its job? The idea behind the unit was that a number of people would work there who have a whole network of not employed by Brussels, EEAS, who are engaged in identifying and detecting disinformation. We have seen that last point did not go well. That is why it is right that the Chamber should have drawn attention to this. So I am not fighting what Mr Baudet says. There is a unit of people commissioned by the EEAS. There is a network of people who should contribute to this on a voluntary basis. That doesn't work optimally. That is why I think it is right that Blok and I should continue to draw attention to this in the light of the implementation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u229	A network of people who contribute to this project on a voluntary basis. Surely that is no way to remove the problem that the EU has control over this? Who selects that network? Who will ensure that certain journalists or certain fact-checkers are given the space to make a certain point? Who evaluates their functioning? That's the EU, isn't it? Isn't it obvious that this is the EU? This means that it is a state actor, in this case the EU, who is in charge of whether or not to label news facts like fake news?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u230	In 2015, this unit, this website, was launched on behalf of the European Council, which was also concerned about disinformation, especially among EU Member States located in Eastern Europe. The aim, as well as the sole objective, was to detect disinformation and to do something about what was really a problem in many countries in Europe. I might also point out that these are countries that have had to deal with totalitarian regimes in the past. Those countries really know what it is like to have no free press and no freedom of expression, and to be confronted by what you may and may not think. Those are the countries we're talking about. They want to arm themselves against it, and we think that is a good idea. On the other hand, if it does happen, it must be done by a free and independent press and by independent persons. It shouldn't be a government that detects the disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u231	You say that you think it is a good idea, but you also advocate that this website be removed from the sky.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u232	I have said that, in my view, European cooperation is a good idea when it comes to something that is cross-border. That is also in the cabinet's document, as Mr Baudet has seen. Disinformation doesn't concern itself with borders. The new technologies do not concern themselves with the borders of our countries. So the cabinet is in favour of working together on that in Europe, that we exchange information, that we pay attention to that and that we look together to see how best to combat it. At the same time, we have seen that the part called EUvsDisinfo is not in its effect what was expected and asked of it at the time. So we have said that we would like to carry out the motion of the Chamber on that point. However, we have noted that we have not yet found any supporters for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u233	That's a nice little bridge, because that's exactly what I wanted to hook up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u234	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u235	The Minister says, and I appreciate that: "It is an adopted motion and we share a great deal of concern. We went to Brussels with the story that the independence of journalism should be respected and that we see a conflict with the current functioning of the website." And then there comes that which scared me: "And we could not find any helper for it." Is the Minister really saying that all the other EU Member States considered the threat of disinformation more important than guaranteeing independent journalism?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u236	No, because that last conclusion Mr Kwint draws will not draw anyone. It's about the appreciation of the unit. It is about the fact that we in the Netherlands are faced with a number of mistakes, which have fortunately been admitted and corrected. I think this is important in itself, but the Court has concluded that it no longer wants the EUvsDisinfo unit. Other Member States say that they understand perfectly and that they want it to be done in a good, professional and independent way, but that they are not yet ready to stop wanting the unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u237	Those mistakes were an additional reason for tabling our motion. With our motion we made the main choice that we do not want a club of Brussels bureaucrats to stamp what is and what is not true information or good journalism. I hope, then, that the Minister will continue to engage in this discussion in Brussels. I am afraid that she says that the perceived threat of disinformation is apparently so important that a website of Brussels officials who are going to stamp or are not true is considered to be a pro-active means of doing so. In any case, the question is whether you want to continue to draw attention to this and whether you do not want to cooperate with that agency until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u238	I would like to reassure Mr Kwint a little bit. I think that we in Europe in general share the analysis that the best way of combating disinformation is the free and independent press and also strong independent media. What we have not yet got the other Member States into is that we could do without EUvsDisinfo. Others choose to improve, professionalize, further invest in the network of independent people who can check facts or assess messages. That is also a choice that we must respect. At least we can have that debate with each other in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u239	How did the Minister figure all this out? Has the Minister lobbied intensely and talked to the other countries that are members of the EU? Did she try to influence it, or did she just look at a few websites?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u240	If Mr Bosma's question is exactly what the cabinet has done to implement the motion, the answer that the cabinet, encouraged by the motion, has actually raised at all relevant levels, both administrative and political. That is what is happening in Brussels and in bilateral contacts, as I said earlier. Minister Blok often does this. He travels a lot and is often in Brussels. But every now and then I also speak to one of my colleagues. So we really do this in all kinds of ways and in all kinds of gremia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u241	So Minister Blok has spoken with all these EU countries and has he also informed about this in all those EU countries? I assume he has tried to sell the Dutch position of a majority to all those other EU countries, as it were. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u242	Mr Bosma understands me well enough that the Netherlands has tried in Brussels gremia... No, not "tryed." The Netherlands has drawn attention to this in the Brussels gremia. We have also seized other moments to put this issue on the agenda and to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u243	Grabbed it. Okay. This simply shows how the Netherlands has painted itself in the corner throughout the EU, because we as the Dutch do not want something. It turns out once again that this whole Brussels adventure is just a very bad deal. Mr Kwint said at the end of his question something like: then the Minister must do something else, namely to ensure that the Netherlands does not cooperate in any way with the EUvsDisinfo. We still have power in the Netherlands, though little. Is the Minister willing to do that? Is she prepared to ensure that the Netherlands does not cooperate in any way with this organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u244	Mr Bosma is talking about the Netherlands which should not cooperate. Look, fact is, it's there. The fact is that it happened on behalf of the European Council. The EEAS shall be the responsible organisation. We have a different view at the moment. That's what we're wearing. Mr Kwint also asked if I could at least ensure that more resources were not added. You were able to read that in the letter yesterday. We believe that it should all be done within the existing budget. So that's the position of the Netherlands now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u245	I suggest you move on. About the motion, Mr. Kwint?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u246	This might resolve a question later. I didn't ask if any more resources would go there. I asked, as Mr Bosma said, whether we could at least not cooperate and not make funds available for EUvsDisinfo ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u247	Well, I must remain guilty of the answer to Mr Kwint in that regard, because I do not know exactly how these funds are going to go there. But those are, of course, resources that have already been allocated, so to speak. They're with the EEAS. You could argue that there is, of course, Dutch money in that budget indirectly. But there is no direct contribution to EUvsDisinfo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u248	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u249	Yes, thank you. Ms Yeşilgöz asked if there was a difference between the definitions of Europe and the Netherlands. I would almost say yes and no; the answer must be almost yes. In the definition used by the cabinet, which I mentioned at the beginning of the debate, it is about 'collusive influence of public opinion by state actors'. The European Commission uses a slightly broader definition of disinformation, as it also mentions in its documents "the dissemination of demonstrably incorrect or misleading profit-making information." In our definition this does not have to be 'for profit'. The European Commission does not rule that out. Nevertheless, our definition also falls within the definition of the European Commission. And if we look at it a little more broadly, for example from the government's attention to, for example, media literacy, a multiform media system and the strengthening of investigative journalism, that is to say, for all the subjects that Mr Slob deals with in the cabinet, these are the same objectives that the European Commission considers important in the new communication. Then there are a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u250	I wonder what further questions you have. Yes, Mr. Baudet, I know you have something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u251	I'm doing what the chairman says, so I'm going to continue answering a number of questions. I was with Mrs Westerveld, who, on the occasion of the Breda issue, asked if the judge-supervisor knew that he was giving permission to eavesdrop on a journalist. Mrs Westerveld mentioned it herself: this dossier is really under discussion with my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. He's been talking about that, too. He's already said something about that. I really should refer to him for that particular question. I wouldn't like it if I didn't answer that very well tonight. In general, I would like to say that, as a cabinet, we naturally stand for freedom of the press and also for the protection of journalists. Mr Grapperhaus stressed this, and I believe that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen said something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u252	Did you answer all the questions with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u253	No, I haven't answered all the questions yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u254	Okay, I'll go to Mrs Yeşilgöz first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Returning to the Minister's explanation of my definition question. The European Commission has a broader definition. I would very much like to reassure you that the Netherlands will never go along if one tends to check the content of messages, to interfere with the content of reports. And I also think we're all kind of looking for how those conversations take place. Perhaps we can be more actively informed when the Netherlands takes this point and takes a stand on it, so that we can better follow up on how this motion is being implemented. That would help to prevent us from having to ask every PV for an update. It is sometimes difficult for us to see how Europe is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u256	It is very good that Mrs Yeşilgöz says this. I'm going back for this too. There are actually two things: there is EEAS, with the previous 2015 agreements on EUvsDisinfo and what is organised around it; and there is the new Commission communication. These are two different responsibilities and two different issues. My explanation of the definition was about the latter: the communication from the European Commission. I can really reassure Mrs Yeşilgöz on the issue of independence and not assessing the content of journalism by any public authority. That really doesn't work; in the Netherlands it doesn't, and in Brussels it doesn't. As far as following is concerned, I sent you that letter on behalf of Mr Blok. You've been given the BNC chip. It will, of course, also be dealt with further through the regular channels in Brussels. The Chamber is therefore also kept informed of this. I would also like to assure you that we will send you another letter with a stand of EUvsDisinfo later in the year or at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u257	Yes, Mrs Yeşilgöz? I'm going to see Mrs Westerveld now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier, we have asked questions to Minister Grapperhaus, who is dealing with this matter. Most of the questions were answered in Question Time. That is why we did not request a debate on this at the time. This question remains open. You say you'll pass it on to your colleague. I do not know whether to ask you or to the President: will we receive a letter on that? Because it is a question I would very much like an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u259	I have heard the question and the President agrees with it, so I will take the question and ask my colleague if he can answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u260	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u261	A number of questions have also been asked which I must also say: I am working with a number of colleagues. I have already mentioned Blok and Grapperhaus, but when it comes to media wisdom I would also like to mention Mr Slob. Mrs Westerveld asked if we're investigating media wisdom. A great deal of attention is paid to this, including through primary and secondary education. There's an expertise center. This is done by colleague Slob of OCW. I understand that the approach to media wisdom will be reviewed this summer and that the Chamber will be informed in the autumn. The same applies to the demand for additional resources for investigative journalism. That's what Mr. Slob is doing. Mr Kwint spoke about the concentration of power among private media parties. That is also what Mr Slob is about. By the way, there will soon be an AO on media and journalism. I understand that Mr Kwint has also asked written questions about it. So I'm told he'll have those answers and he'll get them soon. Finally. Mr Sneller and Mr Bosma asked what Mr Baudet also asked: is it just about Russia? The EU is also really focusing on the wider debate. So the Commission's communication really looks forward to the wider debate The EEAS section looks, as I said earlier, at Russia. Mr Bosma had one question. "Great and compelling I want to live" is Marsman's. Mr. Sneller asked about Facebook's promise to make insight into who ads come from. Facebook has indicated to run a pilot with this. In that pilot, they want to make that clear. In response to Mr Sneller's question on Facebook, I will look into the state of play. Finally, Mr Van der Molen has a number of questions. He asked whether the strategic network announced by the European Commission would be a kind of follow-up to EUvsDisinfo. That is not the case. This is a network of independent fact-checkers, which can support other fact-checkers upon request. He also asked if I could give an example of legislation and regulations that other Member States want. An example is that the French are considering making it mandatory by law that online platforms remove disinformation related to elections in election time. Mr Van der Molen said that he had not noticed so much of creating consciousness. That is perhaps because this has mainly been done through the line of Mr Slob: media wisdom, digital literacy and education. I just mentioned that trajectory. It runs until the summer, will then be evaluated and the Chamber will be informed about it after the summer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u262	Thank you. I actually want to go to the second term of the Chamber, but first look at Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u263	I thought the Minister was going over our question very quickly as to whether 5 million would be enough to live up to the ambitions. The Minister said that is what my colleague, Minister Slob, is about. But it's also in the sheet in the letter we got. There are many good intentions and ideas in the government, but at the same time there is reference to the coalition agreement and there is only 5 million in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u264	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u265	Maybe the Minister can tell us a little bit more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u266	I did refer to Mr Slob, who is responsible for the objectives and also has the resources. He won't be able to assess this until later. Of course, it's not the only thing. It is, of course, something that the media, training and universities themselves are already paying attention to. But I think we have noticed that if we are not careful, research journalism marginalizes too much; hence that budget is available. I would ask Mrs Westerveld to give Mr Slob the opportunity to fill that out and then to see with him whether or not that is enough in her view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u267	Mr Baudet, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u268	On page 3 of the letter from Minister Blok, I read that the first thing I am looking at is to increase strategic resilience to systematically combat disinformation and to cooperate with online platforms. That's what you said. But then it says that if this proves not to be effective, there may be a need for additional measures that may be "regulatory." Then it is said: EU legislation. So it's about rules, legislation, which should fight fake news. What kind of rules and legislation are we thinking about here? What are we supposed to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u269	Well, we're not thinking about that for a while, are we? We have informed the Chamber of the European Commission's communication. This is part of it. The position of the Netherlands is precisely that we do not think there is a need for regulation. I just mentioned the example of how the French Government is considering doing its own regulation. The European Commission says that if the measures it proposes are more effective than what Mr Baudet has just mentioned, it does not rule out the need for regulation at European level in the future. In their eyes, not in our eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u270	Yes, but the question was: what kind of regulation? What kind of rules, what kind of laws are they talking about? Can you tell me about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u271	No, because once again, the European Commission in its communication... We have only repeated what the European Commission says to inform the Chamber properly. The European Commission sets out a number of proposals and pathways that do not include further regulation or legislation, and only says that if this does not provide sufficient comfort, they will not rule that out for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u272	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u273	Yeah, but that's exactly the whole point. It is said: "Facebook, Google, Twitter, you should no longer publish our displeasure opinions. If you do not want to do so, then we will come up with regulations." That's what actually says here. You are full of it, everyone is full of it, but I think everyone who is following this debate has seen it very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u274	No, Mr. Baudet, keep it a little civilized. Did you hear what you said? You don't have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u275	Mr President, I did not hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u276	Then I'm going to see Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u277	Well, of course the point is clear. There's no clear problem. There's a Catalan problem according to the CDA. There's a Lithuanian problem according to D66. That is why we need a European, Brussels-based toko, which undermines our freedom. There's no problem, but we're gonna pay the price for it. That's why this minister is so vague. I have a question. From which... No, let me put it this way. The boss of the AIVD says that Russia has not tried to influence the elections in the Netherlands. That is what the annual report says, and that is what he repeated at the College Tour of State Broadcasting. How can this minister harden, where is the proof that these Russians are so busy here in the Netherlands, except for some vague circular stories...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u278	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u279	...that it's happening there and that maybe it's going to happen here? What exactly is the hard evidence? Whoever claims to prove it, proves it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u280	The hard evidence is, of course, extremely difficult, not only in the Netherlands but also in other countries. Nevertheless, I think it is a good thing that we in the Netherlands realise that we are vulnerable to this, precisely because we are an open society. That is why I have heard some of the speakers say that they are pointing out risks, pointing out that we have to take care of our case. I am very pleased that the services have noted that, as far as we know, the elections have not been affected in any way whatsoever. On the other hand, we do know that efforts have been made around the Ukraine referendum and that around a dossier that is very important and extremely sensitive to us, such as that of the MH17, such matters are happening. We know it happens in the neighbouring countries, in friendly countries such as France, Germany, Spain and the UK. So we should never be naive in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u281	We are again getting a list of all kinds of countries, of countries where it happens, and it is said: so we must be vigilant in the Netherlands. Yeah, I get that. But very specific: what has Russia pumped into public opinion around the MH17 or on other dossiers or around the Ukraine referendum, which has led the Netherlands to think differently? What story was launched? What people have been pushed? What money is there then... I'm just asking very specifically: who, what, when?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u282	Look, it may well be that Mr Bosma and I have a different appreciation of the things that are openly said or less openly done by the Russian Federation when it comes to MH17. At least I take it extremely seriously. It varies from a Russian ambassador who says for the Christmas tree that our independent research team is not independent up to and including at the highest level denying that the results of that same research team are what they are. Mr President, I can't make it any better either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u283	No. Mr Bosma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u284	That's what diplomats do. The guy was all wrong. He was wrong. But diplomats all over the world are saying things. I follow all kinds of Dutch ambassadors on Twitter. They all tell wonderful stories about the Netherlands. You get a very different picture of what the Netherlands is like. That's what diplomats do. That's what they're paid for. That's their core business. That's their job. That's what they have to do. If the Russian ambassador didn't do that, his boss would say, "Hey, buddy, tell us our story." Isn't that what diplomats do? What does that have to do with disinformation or fake news?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u285	Dutch ambassadors don't spread fake news.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u286	Thank you. We are now going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Speaking time is one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u287	We are witnessing an extremely serious development today for two reasons. The first reason is that the first steps are taken here in ending free society, the free conversations between citizens, between people who want to know what is going on, people who are wondering what is going on or what is not going on. The European Union and the Netherlands are moving in a number of steps towards more and more things that are displeasurely labeling them and pushing them away from the public domain. The second reason why we are witnessing a very sad development is that this is denied in an orwellian denial of elementary logic. We see this in the Blok letter, which states that freedom of expression is not under discussion, but we are going to use rules to determine what is and is not allowed in the public domain. It's a sad day. It's a bad day. I am almost unaware of how to respond to this, because the way in which basic questions are not addressed here is so debatable. It's a really sad day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u288	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I also welcome the commitment to keep us proactively informed on how things are going in Europe with regard to the handling of the motion. I also thought it was a bit of a confusing and sad debate. The question that needs to be asked is: do we really support the freedom of our free press and the freedom of expression? I do feel the need to emphasise once again that we stand for that in this house and that it has consequences, that we are committed to it and that we are not just dealing with it as a philosophical reflection, but that it is actually the foundation of our free democracy. I will table a motion together with Mr Van der Molen of the CDA, which he will explain in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u290	Mr Bosma has one question. A brief question, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u291	The VVD can file motions that it's a sweet lust. Mrs Yeşilgöz has done so before about the fact that EUvsDisinfo and that motion was adopted with a majority in the Chamber. It doesn't happen often, something like that. A beautiful motion, and this minister just says, "Fuck it, I'm not doing it. Yes, I've looked around Brussels a little bit and yes too bad, they don't want to." Is that enough for the VVD? Is now EUvsDisinfo no longer a problem, is it acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u292	I am very sorry that EUvsDisinfo still exists. We are also clear in the motion that we would like it to cease to exist and call on the cabinet to commit itself to this. I read in the Minister's letters and I have just heard her answer that she is in favour of it in several places, that she is committed to it and that she is also arguing it. I am very sorry that the rest of Europe does not yet want to go along with this. I am pleased to hear from the Minister that there are two ministers who will continue to work for this in Europe and will keep us proactively informed about it. But if you ask me whether I still want it to be abolished: yes, today rather than tomorrow. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u293	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u294	Does the VVD draw a broader lesson from this too? Because this is something very fundamental, Mrs Yeşilgöz quite rightly says: freedom of expression. There's a club watching talk shows, where people say things that don't add up and then they get angry. That crazy EU has nothing to do with it. That is a very, very, very fundamental thing. Does the VVD draw from the fact that something as fundamental as freedom of expression is no longer securely guaranteed by Brussels...............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u295	The conclusion I draw from what we have heard about this is that I am very pleased that the Netherlands is at least there and that our ministers are committed to the freedom of our press and to freedom of expression. So I'm happy with that bet. That shows that it only has more added value that that sound is heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u296	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u297	Thank you, Mr President. It was an interesting debate today in which we heard a number of special examples and a number of almost philosophical considerations, in which also the applicant for a debate on the attack on freedom of expression was sitting here wondering out loud whether this applies to journalists. I thought it was special. We have asked a number of questions and we also hear the answers from Minister Slob, because we are certainly going to ask the questions. There is one question where we clearly haven't had an answer and it's about how people find their information online. I asked the question as to whether we could perhaps get some more information on this and whether we could perhaps have additional research on it. The Minister did not go into that, so I would like to ask her if she would go into that further. That was my contribution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u298	Mr Baudet has another question, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u299	I still feel the need to respond. I do not think I have wondered whether independent opinion-forming should apply to journalists in general. The question that has been raised, and which I am completely open to, is whether you should say in the end, if you really want zero state interference in the journalistic debate, that you might have to get rid of that state broadcasting. Perhaps it is fundamentally incompatible with a completely free press. Then I added that I fully support the fact that it is, of course, a sliding scale, the extent to which the State may or may not exercise responsible supervision over that state journalism, once it is there. Then I mentioned the example of a newsreader with a button "Voice VVD."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u300	You've made your point, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u301	That that obviously falls outside of what we allow. Then at the other extreme perhaps you can call a weatherman who here and there shows a more or less personal slight preference. Totally different from someone like Gerrit Hiemstra, who does that insanely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u302	Mr. Baudet, thank you very much. You've made your point clear. Mrs Westerveld, you may respond briefly, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u303	Yeah, well, I'm happy with this explanation. I understand differently and I think if you call in to fire a weatherman, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u304	No, Mr Baudet has explained that now. I am going to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u305	Yes, this evening's positive news is that the Minister will continue to work in Brussels to end this squabble and that there is therefore a continuing commitment. The negative news is, of course, that in Brussels, the majority of Member States weigh such fundamental fundamental rights in such a fundamentally different way from our government. That worries me. I am particularly concerned about the possible announcement of regulations in this area from Brussels. If it comes to that, you can expect me here again. What concerns me further, I shall come back to this in the debate on the media, is this incredible clustering of media power with a number of parties, which gives a number of commercially-driven parties a very big influence on how information comes to us, especially when it comes to cashing shareholders while freelancers of a habbekrat have to live. But I'll come back to that last one. I want to end up with something positive. Tonight we went from "Gerrit Hiemstra must be fired" to "The Forum for Democracy is completely open in what needs to be done with people like Gerrit Hiemstra." So let me express the hope that we can still enjoy Gerrit Hiemstra a lot in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u306	Poor Gerrit Hiemstra. Thank you, Mr. Kwint. Then I will go to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66. I think Gerrit Hiemstra is following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u307	Yeah, to know how his future's gonna go. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and the commitment to return to the Facebook pilot. Especially with the forthcoming elections next year, I think it would be good to have that pilot in the Netherlands as well. Disinformation is a problem, especially at the eastern border, so I also understand very well that those countries that are vulnerable to it are asking us for help. It is good that the Minister is going to keep us actively informed about that abolition. I would like to ask you to include the possible adjustments that other countries are proposing, and what they are receptive to when it comes to working methods and geographical focus. And I was also pleased with the rejection of the government role in checking the fact, as indicated by the Minister. I think it is right that we should discuss this further in detail in committee, on the basis of that assessment of the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u308	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u309	Mr. Chairman. The folk writer Gerard Reve also loved Gerrit Hiemstra. He said, "Gerrit Hiemstra, the man of the weather, beautiful. When Gerrit Hiemstra's on the tube, we'll get down on our knees. Feel free to use the word excitement." I used some fake news myself in my text from just now. I said the Volkskrant had dedicated three pages to the minister, but it was De Telegraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u310	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u311	This is a correction. Mr. Chairman. Today was also in the news that pigs and cows are cooked alive in slaughterhouses. The Netherlands is also cooked alive; we see that again today. Yes, we can take motions whatever we want and think: yes, in Brussels they will arrange it for us. Let us spare ourselves that, please. You know, nothing happens at all, the train thunders and we're just sitting here separating a few motions. Stop it! There will be regulations from Brussels. It is not for nothing that the Minister keeps it all very vague what is going on. They only do that with one purpose, namely to keep their hands free. And soon the laws will come and the measures will come. Mr. Chairman. There is no Dutch problem. The CDA says there's a Catalan problem. D66 says there is a Lithuanian problem. The AIVD says: Russia has not tried to influence the elections. They want to keep their hands clear. I am very sorry about Nineteen eighty-four: EEAS StratCom, EUvsDisinfo. It's just Ingsoc, the Socialist Party in Nineteen eighty-four. That's where we're going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u312	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u313	Furthermore, I believe that state broadcasting should be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u314	Thank you. I have a new list of speakers here. I now turn to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I saw that Mr Baudet had a bit of a headache from this discussion. He did go all over the place. But the way it cannot go is that we are questioning whether a journalist in a medium financed from public funds would have the right to carry out his journalistic profession freely. Even if you're afraid to say that and say that you're at least open to the extent to which the government can make guidelines for that, then you're just going in the wrong direction. That is why I would like to table a motion with Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u316	But Mr Baudet wishes to respond to your comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u317	There's no headache. I just wanted to make that right. There is a kind of confusion that occurs in the brain at the time you repeatedly ask a simple question and don't get a normal answer to it. That has nothing to do with headaches, but that defies the basic laws of logic. It'll take some getting used to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u318	Then I would advise you to do this kind of debate with some regularity, then it gets very well. Mr President, then there is a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u319	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u320	This is an interesting guilt. I think this is exactly the problem of Dutch politics. If you get a question and you want to think about it and you say "well, that's an interesting point and we'll go into that for a moment," then you do something that has become very unusual in the House of Representatives, in politics. I'm sorry about that. If you say "you have to participate more often in debates, you will get used to them" then that flesh-becomes cynicism of the party cartel. That's exactly what I see as a scare. We will not be sealed up like D66, once again the party of freedom and democracy,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u321	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u322	...now the party of censorship. We're not gonna be sealed up like the CDA. We want to open the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u323	Mr Baudet, I share with you that debates in this Chamber may be superficial. I'm sure I'll be wrong about that sometime. But there is a difference between a student philosophy club and the work we do here with each other. People who sent us here don't want to know what kind of questions I have in my head right now. They want to know where I stand. You said at the beginning of the debate: I think that if you work in public service broadcasting, your guidelines can be imposed on you to behave the way we want you to. I just don't think that's possible. That is why I would like to make a second attempt to table a motion in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u324	Then I would suggest that you do that and not provoke anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u325	What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u326	Don't provoke me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u327	Mr President, I will try to hold back. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that freedom of expression and freedom of the press apply in full to anyone working in the Netherlands for media financed by public or private funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u328	The task of us as House of Representatives is to control the government. To that end, we write motions or make laws occasionally. I have the feeling that this motion is not so much directed against the cabinet as I have heard no plan from the cabinet to do anything in the sense of public service broadcasting. This seems to me to be a kind of motion of censure towards Mr Baudet. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u329	No, you can't, because you can't actually do that. It seemed sensible to us, as proposers, to send this signal unequivocally at the end of the debate, as we started the debate with that debate. Of course, it does not stand in the way of voting against it. I'm guessing the Chamberwide will be accepted. At least I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u330	Let us be honest and let us not call each other a pussy: it is a motion in the direction of Mr Baudet. You're free to do that. But that we are now going to table motions against fellow chamber members... Man, man, man, what are we all doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u331	I repeat: the Chamber is speaking out of which any motion begins anyway, and any Member of Parliament can, of course, decide after this debate how he or she wants to vote. It is certainly not to be regarded as a motion of censure against anyone. It's a motion of confidence in journalism. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u332	Thank you. I'll see if the Minister can respond right away, because there haven't been a lot of questions asked. A few, and a motion. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u333	Mr President, that is true: not so many questions, but still a single one, and a motion. Ms Yeşilgöz noted that the cabinet was committed to carrying out the motion. That's right. I'll tell her that if you find out you're the only one, it's not gonna make much progress. That does not mean that we will continue our efforts and will follow very closely in any case what is happening both at the EEAS and at the European Commission. On the positive side, I note that there is no further discussion in Europe about what I think is so important, namely the free press and the independent media. I think it is also right that we should not only say this to each other but also to the rest of the Netherlands, because where we are fighting for freedom of expression and the free press, that is the case throughout Europe. I also agree with the European Commission's communication in this respect, because that is something they underline. You've been able to see that. One of the eight points is also: "Encouraging Member States to ensure a pluralistic, varied and sustainable media landscape, supporting initiatives to strengthen the skills of journalists and traditional media with new media and clarifying state support rules for support media." That is therefore very much in their approach. Then there is Mrs Westerveld's question. In the first installment, he had asked how people would find information online. Do we know enough about that and should we investigate it further? A number of studies have already been carried out, including by the Rathenau Institute. The cabinet will come up with a response to that. I thought the plan was to do that after the summer. A Media Monitor from the Media Commission has also been published. Minister Slob also has an AO Media with the Chamber in July. He'll come up with a letter before then, too. I hope that I have answered the question a little more in detail than I have just answered. Mr Kwint: what I just said was certainly in his direction. I do notice that the budding love between the SP and the VVD seems to have become a bit less because of the words Mr.Kwint used of course. They were about the tow law, big business and stuff like that. Mrs Yeşilgöz has now tabled a motion with Mr Van der Molen, whom I still have to give an opinion on, but I have to check if I have answered all the questions before I do. No, not yet. I can promise Mr Sneller to include the proposals of other Member States in the letter. That is what we will be monitoring and involving. I thank Mr Bosma for his correction. I would have liked to have done that in the first term. Then there's the motion. What is in the motion is also underlined by the cabinet. That is what I said in my first term. Therefore, I would say: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u334	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-43.u335	We shall vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the staff, the people who have followed this debate in one way or another, and I close the sitting.
