ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u1	We haven't been able to find the Secretary of State. Efforts are being made to do this. Let me look at the Members of Parliament and ask them whether they are okay with us getting ahead without the Secretary of State. If you're saying you don't want to start without it, we're gonna have to wait for further notice. It concerns the Secretary of State of the United States of America. I look around and note that there is no objection to starting with this minister. Then that's what we'll do. It is a 30-member debate with a speaking time of three minutes per group. The first is Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. As she walks into the chair, I would like to say to everyone that I will allow four questions per group. How you distribute it is up to you. You may ask them in succession and you may also split them, but up to four questions per group. Mrs Kröger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Air quality and its health impact remain a major concern. I spoke to an expert who compared it to asbestos. Even when the enormous health impact of this was clear, it was a long time before adequate policies were in place, and many people are still dying of asbestos cancer. Air pollution is the asbestos of this century. There are two things that we consider to be important. How do we ensure that our policies focus primarily on effective health benefits? And how do we ensure that scientific insights about health effects are translated more quickly into preventive policies? All our economic, spatial, traffic, agricultural and environmental policies affect air quality. Everyone has a share. So we actually need quantifiable and accountable health targets for all these policy areas. The Court of Auditors was clear: individual measures without coherence or imputable targets are not efficient or effective. We have to reason the other way around: what is the health gain we want to achieve, and what is needed for that? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if she shares this logic. The Health Council, the GGD and RIVM strongly insist on generic measures to combat mainly agricultural and traffic emissions and on specific policies for hotspots, especially for diesel, which is responsible for the greatest contribution to all pollutants. For example, locally strict environmental zones are needed and generically, for example, a substantial increase in diesel excise duty. That is much more effective and effective than pumping car tyres. We would very much like an overview of all the measures proposed by the Health Council, assessed on the basis of health effectiveness and a social cost-benefit analysis. Can the Secretary of State agree to that? And then on diesel. In Germany, Volkswagen received a fine of 1 billion of which, as we understand, 995 million was for environmental damage. We have also suffered this environmental damage in the Netherlands. What are the possibilities for the Netherlands with regard to a fine? Then there is the second point. Recent research by Erasmus University shows, for example, that air pollution also affects the brain functions of fetuses and babies. More research is needed here. Further research is also needed into the functioning and interaction of various other environmental pollutants. More and more studies show that the health impact of different forms of air pollution is much more harmful than expected. How do we ensure that the results of these investigations are rapidly and effectively translated into action? Let me give you an example. The research on ultra-fine dust around airports is ongoing. Next year, as a chamber, we get the first results. What options, technically and politically, does the Secretary of State have to mitigate the health effects that are currently being investigated? Can the Secretary of State identify different policy options parallel to the research so that, when the research is available, it can be quickly switched off? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mrs Kröger wants to make health gains. That's what I'm all for. We only know that when it comes to disease burden, smoking and overweight at no. One and two stand. What measures do you have in mind when it comes to achieving health benefits in these two areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u4	I am not the spokesman on prevention health care in the broadest sense. We are currently having a debate on air pollution. We're talking about what you can do as a government. There are 20,000 premature deaths a year due to air pollution. I think it makes sense to really see how we can do something about that in all these different policy areas. I would very much like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u5	That goes for me, of course. But since you also mentioned asbestos, I don't even know if you're a spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u6	Yeah, you too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u7	It's about health, and it's about getting health benefits. I'm always very much in favour of starting where you can make the biggest profit. That is why I have just mentioned these two subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u8	Thank you. I think it would be useful to discuss the subject on the agenda with the Secretary of State for IenW and the I&W Committee who are here. That is the air quality and its health effects. Asbestos is a subject that also belongs on that committee. That is why I mentioned that example. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u9	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I call Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every year 12,000 people die prematurely from polluted air and many tens of thousands become ill. We can do something about that. I'm quoting the Health Council. "The amount of health benefits that can be achieved in practice depends on political choices." Political choices, Chairman! Air pollution is a multifaceted monster because of the different sources. The Health Council and very recently the RIVM have mapped these sources and the Health Council and RIVM agree that intensive livestock farming is one of the main causes of polluted air. Our neighbors can talk about that. The Secretary of State writes that air pollution does not stop at national borders. Dirty air from other countries can deteriorate air quality here. But the opposite is also the case. In Sweden, nitrogen from our livestock is measured. We need to take responsibility for our emissions, and we need to do so as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is now working on the Clean Air Agreement. This is a kind of agenda to plan for better air quality with external stakeholders and local authorities. The Animal Party is afraid that the Clean Air Agreement is yet another attempt to buy postponement. That is worrying, because this delay follows an earlier delay, which is followed by a delay, and in the meantime intensive livestock farming continues to break out of ammonia and fine dust. The measures taken so far are not working. Take the combined air scrubbers. It was already known that they are prone to fraud, often stand out and cost a lot of electricity. And a few months ago, the University of Wageningen showed that they are not half as effective as had been claimed. The Environment and Infrastructure Council reached a similar conclusion at the beginning of April. This conclusion is that all technological solutions have not sufficiently reduced greenhouse gas emissions from livestock farming and that livestock cuts are necessary. Can the Secretary of State explain how much money has been spent and is still being put into air scrubbers and low-emission barn systems? All these technical solutions do not seem to work, and yet we are stuck with money. For livestock, all signals are red. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Does she agree with me and the Environment and Infrastructure Council that the solution should not be sought in technology but in fewer animals? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna end up with wood stings. This is another important source of air pollution. The Minister replied to written questions from me at the beginning of June. I still have a few questions about it, because if we start burning more wood, RIVM believes that air quality will deteriorate seriously. We will discuss this later. A 30-member debate has been requested on firewood. However, I would like to know how it is possible that hundreds of euros will still be paid for the purchase of pellet stoves. As long as we're not sure whether pellet stoves are part of the solution or part of the problem, wouldn't that be wise? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I call Mrs Van Eijs from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u12	Mr. Chairman. Healthy air is vital for everyone. 1 million Dutch suffer from lung problems. Air pollution has many sources and does not adhere to borders. Sometimes it just comes from our neighbouring countries or from the open sea into the Netherlands. According to the Health Council, the air has gotten a lot cleaner. That's good news, but there's still a lot to improve. There is an important role for the government, because D66 believes that everyone has the right to clean air. That is why I am pleased that this cabinet takes responsibility for clean air. The Secretary of State showed that this week by spending 100 million on stimulating the use of the bicycle. In addition, it has been agreed that we will be committed to improving air quality on a permanent basis. We are going beyond European standards. We strive for the standards of the World Health Organisation. But there are also local responsibilities. That is why I am pleased that D66 has helped to give priority to improving air quality in many local coalitions. Are the stated air quality ambitions what the Secretary of State had hoped for? How do they fit into the nationwide pursuit of ever cleaner air? The General Court recently concluded that policies to improve air quality could have been better and more efficient, with less money. How does the Secretary of State intend to change the policy so that it becomes cost-effective? The Health Council also says that generic measures work best to improve air quality for all Dutch people. D66 aims at zero-emission, sustainable mobility. The government agreement already states that we are committed to ensuring that all new cars are emission-free by 2030 at the latest. That's what it takes. You would also look at the dirty diesel fraud, which I have also asked written questions about recently. And again I had to ask for a letter because something came up again. But we can do more as a government. Motorcycles also contribute to air pollution. Brommers make a small contribution to the emissions of nitrogen and particulate matter, but they emit all the more other dirty substances. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Does she agree with D66 that we should only aim for emissions-free transport and that it is therefore important that we move on to sustainable transport as soon as possible, including in the case of mopeds? Vulnerable groups suffer extra from dirty air. It is especially important for these groups that air quality improves and peaks in pollution are avoided. One of the causes of this nuisance can be wood-burning. D66 pleaded for the introduction of a fire alarm a while ago. When the weather conditions are unfavourable, people are asked to take a little account of each other by cutting back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u13	Mrs Van Eijs says that she is concerned about dirty diesel and that she has asked questions about it. It also recognises that reports actually indicate that it is precisely for diesel generic measures that would work. What measures does my colleague intend to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u14	The questions we had asked recently were also about the fact that the Euro 6 standard does not seem to be met now. We agreed that the diesels should be cleaner. They don't seem to be meeting that right now. I think it is right that we should ensure that they do comply and that the new diesel is as clean as promised. I think that would at least be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u15	Does Mrs Van Eijs agree with me that we need to move towards a phase-out of diesel?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u16	I think we are going to end up with a phase-out, because we want to move towards emission-free vehicles. That's what the cabinet said. Diesels are by no means emission-free vehicles. I therefore think it is very good that a number of car manufacturers themselves have already indicated that they do not see a future in diesel, because the government indicates that we will eventually have to get rid of it. Then manufacturers think: we aim our arrows at electric cars or hydrogen cars. So it's going the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u17	The cabinet indicates that new cars will have to be emission-free by 2030, but of course there will still be a lot of cars driving around. What year does D66 want the diesel to be phased out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u18	As we have seen with environmental zones, it is often a matter of people's ability to trade their old diesel for a new diesel. This may depend on how much more expensive a new electric car is. I find it difficult to predict what this will be like in 2030, but I think that we can now take a great deal of measures to stimulate electric transport in particular and that this will make it increasingly easier to switch from diesel. I hope that we do not have to ban people from driving their old diesel if that is their only option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u19	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u20	I have two more sentences. My group is pleased that the Secretary of State recently stated in a letter that she is working on such a fire alarm, together with the municipalities. D66 opts for clean air, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u21	I have heard Mrs Van Eijs mention various sources of air pollution: mopeds, cars and wood-burning smoke. That is all true, but two days ago a report was produced by the RIVM, which mentions intensive livestock farming in particular. It states, for example, that in the Netherlands the places with the highest concentrations of ammonia are located in areas with intensive livestock farming. That is explicitly mentioned. It is also written that livestock farming is the main source of ammonia in the environment. How does D66 feel about that? Does D66 agree with the Animal Party that we should also tackle livestock farming and that it should not be the elephant in the room that no one is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u22	I think the Animal Party is talking about this a lot, so I don't think it's true that it doesn't talk about it. My colleague Tjeerd de Groot also often talks about ammonia emissions in relation to circular agriculture. There are huge profits to be made, by looking critically at them and introducing another system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u23	We are talking about air quality. RIVM and the Health Council both say that intensive livestock farming is one of the main sources of air pollution. That also means extra deaths. Isn't this the right time for D66 to make a statement about that too? Mr De Groot is not here right now. I'm asking you... I ask Mrs Van Eijs: what do you think and do you think that livestock farming should be treated as one of the biggest sources of air pollution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u24	What I was trying to say by quoting my colleague is that I too think this is an important subject. I think there is a huge profit to be made with circular agriculture and by critically looking at how ammonia is spread and how manure is processed. I think we should certainly do that in the end, because it is indeed an important part of air pollution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u25	We are now going to listen to the input of Mr Van Aalst from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone, including the PVV, is for clean air and that clean air is fortunately also in the Netherlands. The Health Council rightly admits that air quality in the Netherlands has improved considerably over the past decades. We meet European limit values in virtually all places. Moreover, half of all our fine dust hanging over the Netherlands comes from abroad. Every generation of cars is a bit cleaner than the previous ones, because the consumer is asking for it. Mr. Chairman. You'd say these facts put things in perspective, but the opposite is true. This cabinet suggests that the situation is unsustainable, that the citizen is responsible and that additional policies are needed as soon as possible. In fact, the Council recommends low-speed inner cities, environmental zones and speed limits. And the Secretary of State says he prefers to follow this advice. The PVV will always fight hard to put a stop to the Secretary of State's freaked-out green thinking. Mr. Chairman. The proposed low-speed inner cities and environmental zones are unhindered attempts to drive the driver out of the city, but also the enforcement of lower speed limits is a wrong idea. Slower driving leads to more congestion and thus further deterioration of air quality. It is all symbolic policy that is counterproductive. If we are told that climate noise is going to take a prominent place in the Clean Air Agreement, then the PVV's latest hope for concrete solutions to the last problems will be lost, because we have not heard them. It is all profound, harmful and costly, without proven usefulness and necessity. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the Netherlands is moving in the right direction in terms of air quality and that no one has been helped with the draconian measures that are now being proposed. Mr President, stop scaring me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "It is a suspicious substance, but there is no reason to think that it now has consequences for people's health. Then we anticipate the facts and there is no acute danger." That's what a Schiphol man recently asked about ultra-fine dust. He wants to wait for the research of the RIVM into particulate matter and continue to grow until then. For convenience it is forgotten that in its report on air quality, the Health Council points out that all signals point the other way. The board speaks of proven and likely causal links. The RIVM also states something similar in a recently published report. Again, economic interests seem to go without careful consideration of health demand, and that is worrying. The Health Council notes that air quality in the Netherlands has improved in recent decades and even meets European standards here and there. On the other hand, he argues that after smoking air quality is one of the biggest drivers of disease and can lead to premature mortality. Every year, you have just heard 12,000 people die from the effects of air pollution. However, health standards are higher than the European standard. In fact, even at concentrations below this WHO value, fine dust and air quality in general can have a bad impact on health. It's okay for us to take care of each other, the government first. European standards also involve political and economic arguments. This does not necessarily mean that European standards adequately protect health. Is the Secretary of State prepared to argue at European level for further tightening of standards until they are equivalent to those proposed by the WHO? The Health Council also reports that approximately half of air pollution comes from abroad. Now we know the Secretary of State is busy with the Clean Air Agreement. That's great. The Secretary of State is in consultation at European level and states himself that health is not always at the heart of the issue. 50PLUS likes to hear from the Secretary of State whether that is her starting point. Will it pay more attention to the effectiveness and coordination of the various measures? But 50PLUS also thinks about aviation. The Minister of Infrastructure and Water State has recently said here in the House of Representatives that emissions will naturally increase in the coming years around Lelystad Airport. After all, 45,000 flights need to be increased. Surely it is astonishing that the government is apparently accepting this increase in emissions as a definite fact and is increasing the associated risks? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is maar welke keuze je maakt.]] Why does the government hold on to its own research into particulate matter that is only ready in 2021, when so much more is already known? Does this not endanger Dutch air quality and thereby the health of its citizens? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I call Mr von Martels of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about small groups, and I do not mean small groups such as DENK and Forum for Democracy, which are striking that they are not present today, but small groups such as fine dust, nitrogen dioxide and ozone. The Health Council has carried out research into its impact on health. One of the main conclusions is that air quality has improved significantly in recent decades. In particular, concentrations of particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide have fallen sharply. European limit values are met almost everywhere. In addition, the Health Council indicates that air quality can be improved and that many people's health would benefit. The Health Council advises to focus on generic and international policies. First of all, ambitions on this issue are important, and we need to see how we can solve bottlenecks. Well, it's a good thing to ask what we should be focusing our ambitions on. The amount of fine dust entering our air by human action abroad is clearly greater than the amount of fine dust from all Dutch sources combined. International agreements are then urgently needed. The Health Council advises to consider, in a European context and in consultation with neighbouring countries, whether measures that have proved effective in the Netherlands can also be more effective there. As far as European policy is concerned, the Secretary of State wants to wait for the fitness check that runs until the end of 2019. It'll take us too long. Can this be accelerated? And what opportunities does the Secretary of State see for putting good Dutch examples on the map abroad? Will the Secretary of State also introduce the new indicator to be developed at European level and advocate similar exchangeable indicators? My second point concerns the National Air Quality Action Plan. The Secretary of State states that due to its strong cooperation nature in the national cooperation programme air quality, she intends to proceed with this under the name Clean Air Agreement. The advice of the Health Council is the basis for this. What of the advice does the Secretary of State take and what doesn't she take? In short, what is she going to do in concrete terms? The Health Council recommends, among other things, a cost-benefit analysis of the policies. Is it possible to receive this before the Clean Air Agreement in spring 2019, with a further explanation of the State Secretary's commitment? Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns local initiatives. The Secretary of State also wants to set up the Clean Air Agreement as an agenda, to which local and regional parties can also contribute. I would like to know how the Secretary of State looks at potential undesirable fragmentation as in the environmental zones. I would also like to know what municipalities can and cannot do and whether the necessary agreements will be used to adapt legislation and regulations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u31	Mrs Kröger, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask my last question because it is in fact unclear to me whether Mr von Martels sees the 12,000 premature deaths as a concern, as he emphasizes in his contribution in particular that we are already close to meeting the standards and that things are going so well. My specific question is whether Mr von Martels wants us as a government to set a target of halve that number of 12,000 premature deaths within a given time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u33	It's what the CDA wants. Of course, the CDA also wants to give the next generation a good future. This means that we must pay attention to nature, to our whole environment, to soil, to water and to air. That's what we have to make demands on. We need to make clear in advance what standards we set ourselves for this, and we need to comply with them. That's my answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u34	Were you done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u35	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u36	Thank you very much. I call Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, it is the umpteenth thirty-member debate in which another item is on the agenda, and one might wonder whether we should discuss it at once in a committee debate. A lot of motions will be tabled again tonight. Next Tuesday we do not have to be bored by the enormous amount of motions that will undoubtedly pass. I regret that, because a general discussion is generally a stage on which you can go deeper than in a thirty-member debate with just a few minutes. But nevertheless... We can see that the Health Council in its opinion stresses that air quality in the Netherlands has improved significantly over the last few decades. Mr von Martels just mentioned it. However, there are a number of points I would like to raise on behalf of my group. Let me start with the air scrubbers. Many measures have been taken with regard to air scrubbers. These are, it seems, often taken on the basis of incorrect data, because in practice it appears that measuring stations are placed in such a way that they are not in the right position. The data are used to develop policies. That has nothing to do with thorough investigation. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore how they want to professionalise and assess the National Air Quality Action Plan and the Clean Air Agreement for effectiveness. Does she agree with me that there should be more research before any real policy is presented? Furthermore, we have found that the Court of Auditors has destructively assessed the limited understanding of the Minister of IenM. This will therefore be about the Secretary of State, in this case in the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of the Dutch air policy. Is the Secretary of State prepared to put forward measures to improve air quality ex ante, i.e. in advance, and also to assess several indicators? There is no doubt that it can come up with examples such as concentrations and exposure, health effects and cost-effectiveness. Is the Secretary of State prepared not to introduce measures which, after the ex-ante calculation, the ex-ante calculation, prove to be ineffective on costs and effects, even though they may be carried on an emotionally wide scale? In other words, will the Secretary of State base air quality policy on facts rather than emotion? I would also like to know from the Secretary of State what progress has been made on the uniform environmental zones. We see all kinds of wild plans appearing here and there in the cities, where it doesn't really show how to pour them back into a certain barrel. Furthermore, the message is to the Secretary of State: no additional headlines on European rules on air quality. Air doesn't stop at the border. We are going for clear measures and not hot air. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Seengs. Then we have arrived at the end of the first term of office. I propose a suspension until 8:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u39	We're about to listen to the Secretary of State's response. I would point out that in this period I will also allow up to four questions per group. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have this debate together at the moment when we are actually in the middle of a process of taking firm steps. Let me say that, in my view, some of the points raised in this debate strengthen me in the way we are dealing with it. Those points may also be taken into account here and there. But we are in the middle of a process of drawing up a Clean Air Agreement; that has already been mentioned by a number of your members. But we are also in the process of adapting the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme. And why do we do that? Because clean air is vital to everyone. That is also what some of the Members of your Chamber have said. I therefore welcome the advice of the Health Council. Because that advice puts people's health first in further improving air quality, and it also provides useful guidance for my policy. This advice is used as a basis for developing the Clean Air Agreement. That is what I do with municipalities and different interest groups. I'm talking to them about that. I also take into account the results of the policy review that is currently being carried out on behalf of the Ministry. This policy review is important because, like the General Court, we would like to know that the policies we conduct are effective, efficient and cost-effective. So when I look at the choices to be made about the policy instruments to be used, I also look at that cost-effectiveness, but also, of course, at social support. Mr Ziegs said: look at exposure, for example, and weigh a number of indicators. I think that's a very good suggestion. You take the health effects, the exposure, the cost-effectiveness. All that kind of stuff you need to have a clear picture of before you can just establish a good package with each other. So that's what we're all doing. I am expected to offer the Clean Air Agreement to your Chamber by spring 2019. In the meantime, we are eliminating the last exceedances of the European limit values. That is why I refer to the adaptation of the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme. I recently sent you a list of about 100 measures, which are now in consultation. I hope to be able to talk to your Chamber before the summer about the adaptation of that NSL, which will hopefully come into force after the summer of 2018. Mr Wassenberg said somewhere in between: 'These measures do not work'. However, many countries in Europe have now received a letter of formal notice from the European Commission because they had taken too few measures. In the Netherlands, we did not get it because we are really working very hard to take measures that eliminate those bottlenecks. And we're also going to have it calculated what its effectiveness is and whether that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u41	The Secretary of State says that we in the Netherlands are taking measures to remove bottlenecks, but that is not true. We do take measures: we invest in low-emission stables and in air scrubbers. But they don't work. They are deported, they are susceptible to fraud and the University of Wageningen has now shown that they are less than half effective if they are on. So you can take those measures, but if they don't work, it doesn't make any sense. That was my point. I'm not saying we're doing too little, but I'm saying we're doing the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u42	I know that Mr Wassenberg and I will never completely agree on whether enough is happening in intensive livestock farming. That is why Mr Wassenberg is also from the Animal Party and I am from D66. But I think Mr Wassenberg should distinguish between 'no working' and 'less working'. The sum total of all the measures we are taking is sufficient to eliminate these bottlenecks. In this sense, Mr Wassenberg cannot insist that the measures do not work, because if we manage to overcome the bottlenecks in the overall package we are taking, then we have finally taken measures with effect. Or all of which had as much effect as we thought at the beginning? Here comes the point of Mr Wassenberg's air scrubbers. It turns out that they actually work less than we anticipated at the beginning, and that is what the policy is being adapted to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u43	I was talking about that research at the University of Wageningen, but I was also talking about the Environment and Infrastructure Council. He said that they are not working to prevent greenhouse gas emissions either. I know that's a slightly different discussion, but they don't work there either, and you should think about reducing the number of animals. I think that is also the case in this debate on air quality. That's why my question was: why is the elephant in the room again? Why is there talk all around it, but is there not talk of a reduction in the number of animals? I think that is really a solution, without all kinds of side effects and without negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u44	I am aware that Mr Wassenberg is always thinking of this medicine. I think it is important to compare the cost-effectiveness of different means. We're gonna do the billing. Mr. Chairman. A large number of you have asked: is the cost-effectiveness of the various measures being mapped out? Yes. If we are to establish a package, in which we are going to continue to work on clean air, I think it is important that we ensure that we have a clear picture of the effectiveness of these measures. Then we can build a good package together. We are, of course, drawing lessons from the Court of Auditors' evaluation and research, and we are moving forward with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u45	Just to be sure, as long as that cost-benefit analysis comes before the Clean Air Agreement. I hope you can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u46	Yes, I do, because I want that cost-benefit analysis to be able to put together a proper clean air agreement. So for me it will be one of the instruments I need to put together that Clean Air Agreement. Some of you also mentioned the measures that municipalities can take. Local authorities, of course, would also like to know what the effectiveness of different measures is. It will also determine their commitment, so that will all have to be there for that Clean Air Agreement. The questions are a bit mixed up, so I don't walk away from the spokesmen one-on-one, I'm afraid. What measures does the Empire take in the context of further work on air quality? The Empire is working on source policy, emission standards for mobile machines will be phased out from 2018 onwards, as well as source policy and increased emissions for medium and large combustion plants. Fiscally, there is going to be an MRB premium for old polluting diesels. A fiscal advantage is inclusion in the MIA/VAMIL list when purchasing certain catalysts for heavy diesel vehicles. Further work is, of course, being carried out on zero-emission city logistics. Also the differentiation of parking rates and environmental zones can all contribute. I would like to start with the question of effectiveness and the European source policy, which a number of you have raised. Indeed, we are a net exporter of air pollution. That gives us a responsibility to go abroad. At the same time, we also import air pollution. That is precisely why these European agreements are so important. To Mr von Martels I say: sure, I am absolutely prepared to enter into this discussion in Europe too. There is a fitness check going on, but I thought your suggestion was very good to see which indicators we can develop here, following the Kröger motion, and to see if we can also introduce this indicator in Europe, to make health more and more central, including in European air quality policy. So I would be happy to share that knowledge with my colleagues, once we have developed that indicator, so that we can all benefit from it and thus benefit from it together, because air does not stop at the border, as Mr Ziengs said. So we have a real interest in having the right discussion in Europe too. From Europe to what can be done locally. A brief update on the environmental zones has been requested. I am indeed discussing the harmonization of environmental zones. I think it is very important that it is clear for a motorist what it means. At the same time, we see that a number of municipalities have said in their college agreements that they would like to establish an environmental area. In order to avoid any kind of patchwork in the meantime, I sent a letter to all the municipalities immediately after the municipal elections that I am harmonising this. I actually hear from all these municipalities: we like to look at the framework that you are going to develop, and we also want to avoid creating these patchwork. Before the summer, I will inform the Chamber of the steps we intend to take with regard to the environmental zones. We are also going to take account of transitional periods and the like. I want a simple system for the motorist, and at the same time it is of course up to municipalities to decide whether to introduce it or not. Mrs Van Brenn had another question about aviation; Mrs Kröger also asked for it. Is research being carried out on the health effects of ultra-fine dust? RIVM expects to complete its research on health effects by 2021. As soon as the mid-term reports are ready in 2019, I will offer them to the Chamber; Mrs Kröger also referred to them. I think that this is the time to consider whether we can already develop action perspectives, because it will take until 2021 before the final reports are ready. I understand some of the time savings that Mrs Kröger thinks she can book, but I do think we should give the research his place to turn the right buttons to investigate things. So I don't want to do that now. If the mid-term reports are available in 2019, we will see if there is any reason to do so. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kröger also asked about diesel and the possibility for the Netherlands to issue a fine in connection with diesel fraud. In principle, this is possible. However, the higher emissions are now being corrected, so that there is no more environmental damage. The basis of that claim will then be difficult. It is a subject that has a little margin on today's subject, namely the Health Council report, but this is the information I can now give Mrs Kröger on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u47	Mrs Kröger seems to have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u48	I have a question on both points, but let me start with diesel. I don't quite understand the Secretary of State's answer. There will also be environmental damage in the Netherlands because there have been dirty diesels driving around and still driving. Can we map that damage? What costs are we talking about? Then you can also map out whether you can make a company responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u49	The emissions of cars are now being corrected, so the environmental damage does not go any further. Mrs Kröger asks whether there is any possibility of claiming environmental damage in the past. That's not how I understood her question before. Let me see if we can find an answer to that in the second term. I can't judge it that way right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u50	Thank you very much for the answer in second term. I understand that the fine that was paid in Germany was also for environmental damage that had already been done. That's actually the analogy. Then with the ultra-fine dust. On the one hand, I understand that the Secretary of State says "we're going to see the research first," but on the other hand, there are already considerable indications that ultra-fine dust has a significant health impact. That is also the reason for the investigation. Mapping policy options as soon as possible, which always takes time, prevents us from spending a lot of time again when the research is there. Very often we see: first for a very long time scientific research, then standards and then perhaps effects. That's where I care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u51	I have already said that I understand what Mrs Kröger is referring to. Only, starting now, I think it's too early. I do think you should have an idea of where it's going before you can think about effective measures. Let's see what comes out of the mid-term reports and if that gives us any good clues. That's the time to do that. Doing so already, as Mrs Kröger actually asked, I think is too early. The final investigation will indeed not come until 2021. Technology is also evolving. I think it is really important to at least wait for the interim reports on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u52	Can I take this as a commitment, or can I get a commitment that from 2019 onwards, in the second phase of the research, policy development will start in parallel?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u53	I understand that Mrs Kröger would like to have a firm commitment. I said I'd consider it. I really want to get the mid-term reports first and then determine if it's useful, depending on what comes out. Again, I understand Mrs Kröger's question. If there are clear directions from the mid-term reports, can't you start thinking ahead? Then there must be clear directions and I don't know if they are there yet. I won't know until 2019. I am sure that Mrs Kröger will not forget this issue and will certainly ask the question again in the interim reports. Then let's answer it with each other. Mr Wassenberg asked about the pallet heaters. Why are they getting these subsidies? They receive subsidies because in the current system biomass counts for the renewable energy objective that the Netherlands also has. By the way, the new palette stoves for which subsidies are given are better than the old-fashioned stoves and fireplaces when it comes to fine dust emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u54	I have a little bit of déjà vu here, but with another ruler. At the time, it was about cutting back on coal-fired power stations. Back then, MP Van Veldhoven was also very critical of that. It was once agreed that all this was sustainable, but it turned out to be a lot less sustainable in practice. It's going down now, too. I am therefore also making this request with regard to the subsidy on those palette stoves. It's been agreed that they're sustainable, but is it? Are they not part of the problem, as I said earlier, rather than part of the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u55	It is perhaps a good thing that Mr Wassenberg is making this a little broader. The amount of renewable biomass available to the Netherlands to be used in this great transition that we want to go to with this climate agreement and where this cabinet also wants to go with the 49% reduction of COtoer is, of course, very broad. So you have to look very carefully where you use that biomass. I understand Mr Wassenberg's point. That discussion is going on. We are developing a climate agreement. In addition, we will also have to look at questions like "what is the amount of biomass that we can use sustainably?" And "how do we use it as effectively as possible?" Mrs Van Eijs asked a question about the moustache bikes. I certainly strive for zero emission requirements for source and moustache bikes. I am in consultation with the RAI and the BOVAG to see how we can quickly get to the sale of only electric moustache bikes. For mopeds it turns out to be a bit more difficult. There is a directly working European regulation, so you cannot just stop. The moustache bikes aren't, so we're looking with the RAI and the BOVAG to see how we can speed that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u56	I am glad to hear that we are already working on it for moustache bikes. I understand that it may be more difficult for mopeds, but it would, I think, be very difficult to explain to the people at home, and perhaps also to myself, that we are going to make the moped zero emission and not the moped. The car is now electric, the bike is electric, everything is electric, except the moped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u57	I understand that very well. The cabinet wants to make mobility more sustainable in width. There is a table of mobility under the climate agreement for a reason. We do not say there: the mopeds are excluded. Of course, we look at it in its breadth, but one makes it a little easier, for example, to lay it down in the regulations than the other. But in broad terms, the cabinet strives to make mobility more and more clean. This is also very helpful in terms of air quality, so I also share the opinion expressed by Mrs Van Eijs in her speech. As a result of Mr von Martels' question on environmental zones, I have just given an update. Mr Wassenberg asked whether there was any insight into how much money was being put into air-washers. In the past, air scrubbers with state money have been stimulated. Now air scrubbers are mostly paid for by the farmers themselves. We have just had the discussion about how effective these air scrubbers are, but they have, of course, contributed to reducing ammonia, odour and particulate matter. Mr President, I believe that these were the most specific questions, but I would like to look at my notes. Mrs Kröger had asked another question about research. She said that more research is needed and that we should also look at the accumulation of substances. We have also discussed this in an earlier debate. I also said that it was important to me at the time. It is really something that we in Europe need to build together because we still need a lot of knowledge development. The PVV said: I have not heard any concrete solutions to bottlenecks. I hope that with the rich measures that are part of the NSL I have mentioned a number of points, but in the cities there are also very targeted measures to address very specific bottlenecks. For example, it is ensured that on a certain quay in a particular city... I do not let them be called.. electric buses are used so that the emissions there at the place where a lot of buses run, also really go down hugely. This way we can really tackle certain hotspots very effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u58	The Secretary of State just went very fast. She reiterated from my contribution to the debate that more research is needed, at least that was my suggestion, particularly about the brain functions of fetuses and small children and about that interaction. In her response, the Secretary of State states that it must be done at European level, so my question is what the Netherlands is going to do to ensure that there is more research on these two specific themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u59	I think there's a lot of research going on. I wanted to emphasise that I think it is important that this investigation should take place. For example, RIVM already has a lot of knowledge. That is, of course, also being introduced internationally. The issue of cumulation mentioned by Mrs Kröger has also been raised in other debates on substance policy. At that time I said that I consider the investigations into cumulation to be important. We have also raised this issue at European level in order to ensure that we have a better understanding of it together with European countries. Research into the accumulation of chemicals, for example, is very complicated and very long-term. If you do that alone as a country, you are far less effective than working with other countries or at least sharing the knowledge about it. Mrs Kröger has therefore made this point before. I see that and the Netherlands is very much involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u60	Mr. Chairman. I think I have one more interruption left, so I'm going to use it now; I counted well. The Secretary of State said that in the past air scrubbers were subsidised, but not anymore. I've asked how many have gone in the past few years. I have a motion ready to ask, but if the Secretary of State says she can get that sorted out and report it to the Chamber, it will save another motion. That's gonna save you one more hand up, so that'd be nice. Perhaps she could also indicate something in that reply about what provincial money might have gone there. I know this is not the right address to ask, but perhaps the Secretary of State can check with the provinces how much provincial money and how much state money has gone in the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u61	Of course, I always like to make Mr Wassenberg happy, but I do not know if I can make him happy on this point. It is also a bit at the borders of what this debate is about to ask very specifically how much money has gone to the subsidy for air scrubbers in provinces. I'm willing to see if we can easily get that over the table, but to do a whole investigation now... This discussion may be better placed in the debates on agriculture, but we will do a quick check and let Mr Wassenberg know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u62	You said something about firewood, but not everything. Maybe we'll get another 30-member debate on this. Perhaps you could light up a little bit of the veil in which direction we should think, or in which direction the cabinet will think, because the Health Council says the necessary about it. What recommendations do you want to accept and which do not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u63	In my view, not only has it been announced for a 30-member debate, but I have also announced that I will return to the SLA on the recommendations of the platform. A number of recommendations dealt with measures that we can introduce immediately. It is then very much about such a fire alarm, for example. Municipalities can choose to announce that in their congregation, so that people are alerted: today is a bad day; don't boil today. It is also a question of providing further information. With a number of these measures, we will get right to work. I would also like to make a real assessment of the other measures in the cost-effectiveness transfer account. What is the impact on Mrs Kröger's health indicator to determine whether we are taking them with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u64	So, if I understand correctly, municipalities must take into account that there will be a fire alarm in the future. How do you think you're going to shape that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u65	We think it is very important to provide municipalities with tools that enable them to do something locally where it is a problem. I heard from the congregations: we don't have enough instruments now; we might want something at times, but then help us to do so. A lot of people don't know when it's a bad day to light the stove because of its effects on fine dust. The municipality can play a role in that by issuing such a smog alarm. In addition, we want to strengthen the provision of information and a number of such matters. I do not know exactly by heart when we will have completed that, but the intention is actually to do this for the coming winter. The idea was that you could get started on that as soon as possible if you wanted to use it as a municipality. We are also going to try to develop an indicator for municipalities, which allows them to calculate better whether there really is smell nuisance due to wood-burning or not. When is something really going on and when isn't it? If you cannot measure or determine that, it is also difficult for municipalities to see what they should be focusing on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u66	I had just come back to expanding the flight movements and what impact that has. I know the Secretary of State has an ambitious plan. I would like to know from her to what extent that interferes with the expansion of that flight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u67	The discussion you are having with the Minister in particular on air traffic is, of course, always taking very careful account of its environmental impact, so that is what we are looking at. I also think it is important that you take that into account in these discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u68	Would the Secretary of State have the courage to say whether that is desirable, because we see that the expansion of flight movements has a huge impact on fine dust emissions? I can imagine that she would actually want that to be reduced. We still hope for those electric planes, but can she say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u69	I think it would be desirable for mobility to be cleaner in width, so that also applies to air traffic. We have less direct influence on that, because that really is a global market. We were just having a discussion about where to use biomass or biofuels. I am in favour of concentrating on those sectors where we still have few alternatives, but where it can help to clean up this wide mobility. I'll see if I missed any points. There was another question from Mr Ziengs about how to involve the cities. As part of the development of this cooperation programme air, we look explicitly at the cities and consult a lot with them. I also have an answer for Mr Wassenberg on the understanding of subsidies for air cleaners. A few years ago, parliamentary questions were asked about the size of the subsidy for combined air scrubbers. I can send you that information again. I'd like to be willing to do that. Mrs Kröger asked about the mapping of environmental damage from the past. That won't be easy. I will have to look into that further and I will have to come back to that in writing. Unfortunately, that is all I can say at the moment. Mr President, I hope I have answered Members' questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u70	Looks that way. I note that there is a need for a second deadline for Members. Let's get out of line. I note that there will be a one-minute speaking time. If you're going to file a motion, you're going to have to file a motion in that one minute. Mrs. Kröger, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u71	I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many car manufacturers such as Volkswagen and others have proven and proven fraud with their exhaust gas technology;]] [[noting that Volkswagen received a fine of EUR 1 billion in Germany for this fraud and that its level was partly based on social damage and wrongly obtained profits;]] [[Whereas other car manufacturers are also subject to similar penalties;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, including the shuffle diesel industry, have suffered a great deal of damage by failing to improve air quality, by premature mortality, health damage, damage to agricultural crops and the need for additional measures;]] [[calls on the Government to calculate the amount of extra air pollution that the scavenger diesel has to account for, the material damage and whether this damage can be recovered from the car manufacturers concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in 2019, the initial results of the health study on exposure to ultraphine dust are published in children around Schiphol, among others;]] [[calls on the Government to start mapping technical and/or policy means that can reduce emissions of ultra-fine particles from aviation in parallel with the research currently taking place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-294]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-295]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u72	I have another question on the motion. You're talking about reducing the number of farm animals? Did you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u73	Yes. Well, I didn't say that, but that's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u74	That's a lot of them. Could you be more specific? Because now, of course, no one knows what you mean, and we all know that livestock, especially in dairy farming, has already been reduced considerably. Would you like to go further? I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u75	I know that there are still more than half a billion animals in livestock farming at the moment. A year. It is mainly a very large number of poultry, more than 10 million pigs, I believe 12 or 13 million pigs and cattle. That will indeed have to be a lot less. How many, let's take a look at that. Of course, the Party for Animals has ideas about this. We want a shrinkage of about 70%. That won't go from one moment to the next. That is something you must strive for for the long term. But at the moment there are more than half a billion farm animals. The total number has actually only increased in recent years. The air, especially in the areas around intensive livestock farming, is poor. That's what the Health Council says and what RIVM says. Moreover, air quality has improved, except in areas with a lot of industry or in areas with a lot of intensive livestock farming. If you want to improve the air, you can't escape a reduction in the number of animals. And that is what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u76	It is a pity that you are not more specific, because you are now shaving all the animals together. What I just wanted to add is the fact... No. I just think it is important that the standards are met. We don't have to repeat the discussion, but I hope Mr. Wassenberg can be a little more specific. I don't have an answer to that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u77	I can try to give you another answer. For example in poultry there is a huge amount of fine dust, but in pigs you have a lot of ammonia. You're gonna have to deal with that at some point. In areas with a lot of pollution, you also have a lot of nitrogen compounds. They also come from, or they are also related to, those ammonia emissions. I can't put a figure on that right now. I'm just saying, all the advisory committees say you can't escape a reduction in the number of animals. Why don't you go back and find out? Don't think of that as the elephant in the room that everyone does walk around, but isn't named. That's actually my point. That is what the motion puts forward, without any precise figures. I'll leave that to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u78	You have a second motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u79	I have one motion left, so I'll have time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wood burning releases harmful substances which are harmful to the environment and public health;]] [[noting that wood burning releases a high amount of CO, and therefore wood-burning is not a sustainable form of energy;]] [[calls on the Government to end subsidies for pellet stoves and biomass boilers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-297]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u80	Time went on secretly, Mr. Chairman. So, I have one more question for the Secretary of State. For that I wanted to reserve my last eleven seconds, but I see it's only nine now. The Secretary of State said that in the past a letter had already been sent to the Chamber that gave access to the subsidies for air-washers and that she would therefore no longer send them to the Chamber. My question is then: can it be updated? I do not know exactly when that letter was sent, but if it can be updated with the latest figures, I would be very pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mrs Van Eijs has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u82	Mr President, no motion from the D66 side, but thanks to the Secretary of State for her answers. We look forward to the general consultation Air quality, in which we will go even further and deeper into the matter and perhaps also have a little more time. We are also pleased that the Secretary of State states that she is critical of how she can get mopeds and mopeds to zero emission and that she is in consultation with the municipalities about the fire alarm. We're wondering what's gonna come out of that. I would like to tell the Secretary of State in the context of firewood that I do hear a lot of stories about worried about the pellet stoves. If the whole street changes sustainably to pellet stoves, that of course also means something for the air quality in that street. So I think it would be a good idea to take that and perhaps look critically at that subsidy as well. For the rest, we are looking forward to the Air Quality 2.0 National Cooperation Programme and the SLA. I have lost every time what that abbreviation stands for, but at least it is the new plan that will bring down the standards for the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u83	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u84	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion and I trust the Secretary of State will see it as a support for her policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that air quality does not stop at the border and that measures should therefore be implemented nationally and internationally;]] [[Whereas European air quality standards are less stringent than those of the WHO;]] [[Whereas health damage has already been observed at low levels of air pollution;]] [[calls on the Government at European level to promote a reduction in European air quality standards, if possible up to WHO values,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-298]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u85	Mr. Chairman. We want to encourage the Secretary of State to continue to set her ambitious goals and wish her every success. Let's make sure we're front-runners and stick with our air quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u86	Thank you, Mrs Van Brenn. I call Mr von Martels. He doesn't need that either. I'll take a look at the Secretary of State. Shall we suspend for five minutes? Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u87	We're good to go. The Secretary of State is ready to answer the questions put and an assessment of the motions submitted. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the motion in part No. 294 by Mrs Kröger, who asks me to identify the damage caused by the diesel fraud. I have already indicated that I would like to return to this in writing. I would therefore ask Mrs Kröger to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u89	Mrs Kröger, are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u90	I'm sure I'm willing to do that. Can the Secretary of State indicate when she will return to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u91	We'll try to do that as soon as possible. I don't know how long that's gonna take, but I don't suppose that's gonna take very long. If so, I'll let you know. Then you can decide whether you want to put the motion to the vote, but it would be nice if I could get to the bottom of this first and then I will return to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u92	Can this be done for the AO Air Quality, so that there can be a vote left before the AO Air Quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u93	We're gonna take a shot. If that doesn't work, we'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u94	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion (30175, No. 294). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u95	Then the motion to part No. 295.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u96	At the motion in part No. 295...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u97	Excuse me, Secretary of State. There is another question from Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u98	Of course, we need to know what the advice is. If that motion is now being held and then filed, we must have an opinion from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u99	Yes, if Mrs. Kröger had that motion in the interim... Let me put it this way: we are going to tell Mrs Kröger whether she can, so I am glad that she intends to hold the motion in the meantime. We shall therefore forward that opinion to the other members of the Chamber, together with an opinion on the motion, should it be put to the vote at that time. Mr Ziegs is quite right to say that all Members naturally need this information in order to be able to assess this motion. Then there is Mrs Kröger's motion on item No. 295 on starting the investigation in advance. I have already indicated that I am prepared to look at this in the interim report, but not already, because I think that we should first have as the only basis an interim report to see where we are going to develop it. So I advise against this motion. Then there's the motion in part No. Mr Wassenberg on the reduction of livestock farming in favour of air quality policy. In doing so, Mr Wassenberg is taking an advance as far as I am concerned. He says: I already know what the best measure is. I think it is too early to say that, and that is why I do not recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u100	Mr Wassenberg wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u101	The Secretary of State now finds it "too early" for this motion and therefore she advises against it. Then I would like to ask: when will she find it on time? If she says that it could be put to the vote in the foreseeable future, then I could simply hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u102	Of course, Mr Wassenberg is always about holding or not holding a motion, but I'm going to map out the cost-effective measures and then we'll come to the Clean Air Agreement with each other. We will then see what measures fit into it, but Mr Wassenberg says that this should at least be a part of it. We have just discussed that a number of weighting factors will play a role in this and this motion is ahead of me. Mr Wassenberg could also say: I shall first look at what will be in the SLA and then consider again whether I would like to put the motion to the vote. Then there's more ground to compare it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u103	Well, I feel like we've actually had enough indications in the last few months. So I'll just have the motion put to the vote next Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u104	So I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade her. Then the motion to part No. Mr Wassenberg on the subsidy on pellet stoves. That is actually a debate that belongs in the debates that Mr Wassenberg is having with Minister Wiebes, because this is really part of the renewable energy objectives. There are very strict requirements for which heaters receive subsidies. So that really is part of whether or not biomass is used for renewable energy. I must therefore discourage this motion, because it is part of another debate. Then there was the question of whether the information on the subsidy on air conditioners could be updated. There has been little or no subsidy for years, but I will see if we can find an update so soon when the old answers are sent. Should that really be a very extensive exercise, I will come back to Mr Wassenberg, because I know that he does not mean that either. Mrs Van Brenk says that we need to work together on cleaner air, including in the European Union. I agree with her. I also believe that we should work in particular to put health at the centre of our work. The reality is that the countries of Europe are still very different. Many countries still have a great deal of difficulty in achieving European standards at all. For me, therefore, it is more of a tactical consideration that I would rather concentrate the Netherlands' negotiations on putting health at the heart of the agenda than on further tightening up of the targets, of which a lot of Member States will say: we already have a great deal of difficulty in achieving the European objectives. From the point of view of which I use Dutch political capital, I would advise against Mrs Van Brenk's motion on piece No. 298 to promote the strengthening of European standards. I can also imagine Mrs Van Brenk saying that she will hold the motion until after the fitness check, to see what it all looks like. In that case, it may still consider having the motion put to the vote. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions and commented on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u105	I would like to thank the Members for their input and the Secretary of State for their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-15.u106	Voting on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
