ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is part two of the budget for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	A warm word of welcome to both ministers. Our first speaker has a plumbing bag full of readings with him, so we're gonna sit down for a while. I wish her every success. Oh, I see she's condensated it to two folders. That's good. We've got cubes. I assume they will be announced by the Minister himself. There's six of them. I think it's best if we interrupt after the end of those cubes. I'd be happy to do any interruptions in threes, because at least that way you can make your point. I propose that we limit the number of interruptions to four per group distributed among the two directors. Then you must be able to come a long way. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. But, oh, I get into a fight right away and we didn't even start. Not to the chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	I have a clarifying question. Do you mean four interruptions per governor or for both directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	Per each political group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	Both? So that means two per person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	Well, or three versus one. Or four, zero. You may also do zero versus zero. That's not up to me, but four is the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	By ruler?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	No, for both regiments. Shall I write it out for you? You want me to get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's really not enough. This is a very heavy budget and we have two directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u10	Do you want to do the interruptions in half?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u11	No, I just want more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u12	Yeah, I want more pay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u13	Anything else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u14	And I want more nice weather. Why don't we just start with four and see where the ship is stranded? Maybe we'll have time. The situation is now that we are working on this until 5 p.m. today. Initiators say it's gonna be late. Last night it was 3:00 a.m., but that was a completely different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u15	I was there last night at 3:00 a.m. and I'll do the agricultural budget after that. So no one benefits more from doing it fast than I do. And yet I say we need more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u16	I am going to listen to Mr Van Meenen, because he is a reasonable person. But you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u17	I do not know whether that applies to me, but at least it applies to my colleagues. I think that this request is reasonable, so I would suggest that you make six interruptions, for example, and then two if necessary. But this is really very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u18	Six in two I like. Is that a good compromise? Six in two?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u19	We're out!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u20	We're out. Give me a hand. Well, I guess I survived that again. I almost got my first motion of censure. Quickly to the Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Members for their input in the first term. Before I get to the block classification I would like to start with a list of the facts: just a dry list of figures on investment in higher education and on cuts, to give a fair and complete picture. In 2019, the proceeds from the study advance will be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u22	I don't want to interrupt you, but can you tell me what the cubes are first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u23	I'll get to that in a minute. We've got it all figured out that there's logic in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u24	It's been thought about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u25	From the revenue from the study advance, 209 million will be invested in 2019 up to 524 million in 2022. A further 248 million will be added for research. With the halving of tuition fees, 165 million is invested in the accessibility of higher education. This adds up to 622 million in investments in higher education, in 2019 alone. And then the cuts: 25 million reductions in efficiency and 20 million reductions in the lump sum. So a total of 45 million. If you factor in, we'll be net at 577 million in investments in higher education and science in 2019. Mr. Chairman. This may be a rather dry beginning of a long day, but I can see that there is a need for this. Because there are still people who want us to believe that it is trouble and torment in higher education that we are on the brink of the abyss. If you don't correct that image, it's gonna lead its own life. Then everyone will believe that an investment of 577 million leads to poor education. And that's the logic of the University of Kaatsheuvel, the logic of Holle Bolle Gijs, who crammed and spooked and still hungry couldn't sleep. This cabinet simply invests in higher education. You can't find enough of that. You can't agree with its use. But don't act like there's going to be cuts on balance, because that's just not true. To make it very concrete, also in response to Mrs Tielen's question: this means that the education budget per student will increase from €7,300 in 2019 to €7,700 in this period for wo students, and for HBO students even to €7,800 in 2022. And for those for whom it was all a bit fast on this early morning, I have summarized these figures in a clear infographic. It's about to be distributed through social media channels. Mr President, so much for a brief introduction. I will deal with the questions put by the Chamber together with Mr Slob. I've grouped my share into the following blocks. I will begin with accessibility and equality of opportunity in higher education. There is a block of education and the labour market. There's a block of finance, followed by the teacher shortage. Finally, there is a block of science. In the meantime, I'm gonna go into emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u26	Well, you set the tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr President, these were facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u28	That's not up to me. Mr Van der Molen has a small note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u29	The attack is the best defense. But I agree with you: the balance sheet of the government agreement and government policy is financially positive for higher education. That's not what I'm here for. I was there very soon after the first sentence, because I thought: she's doing it again! You used the word "study advance." We had just had a discussion from the CDA and the SP in which we said: we should stop using that understanding every time. It's a student loan or student loan, but not a study advance. I therefore call on the Minister to bury the word'study advance' after she has said this one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u30	Well, let's get back to the facts. The citation title of the law with which this was introduced officially states "study advance." I think it's nice to use it when a law has an official citation title. You rightly have a point concerning the information of DUO. On the site of DUO it is also neatly called a loan for students. I think that's right. We are also talking neatly about loans. These are the proceeds resulting from the measure of that law. It's called the Higher Education Act. That's what your Chamber decided at the time. I don't think it's more than nice to use the right citation title.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u31	I understand the Minister wants to abide by the law. Suppose it's missing, I'd almost say. Let's make the deal that at least after today you'll stop using that word. Then everyone knows it's about a loan. I shall then take a look in the Chamber with a number of colleagues to see if we can change the law on that point. It doesn't seem like a very complicated bill to me, but at least we'll get to the end of each other's lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u32	When I talk about the law, as long as you haven't changed it, I'll keep talking about the law on the study advance. Just as we do in the information at DUO, we are indeed talking to students about a loan. By the way, it's a very social loan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u33	It is interesting to see that the Minister has given up on good relations with the institutions. That promises a lot this year. I would point out, however, that the last time a D66 politician spread figures on social media about education, they turned out to be about 50% incorrect. But that's not my question. My question concerns the figures sent to us by the Minister. They're right, as far as I can tell. But the research part of the funding isn't in it. The minister's predecessor has rightly pointed out that the rapid and substantial increase in student numbers can ensure that, if you do not include that part of the research, the intertwinedness of education and research will be compromised, because the research part of the contribution will not increase. Shouldn't you, uh, I know this is a complicated discussion, uh, taking part in it in order to have a fair discussion about the pressure on universities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u34	I also spoke quite correctly about the education budget per student. We also invest in science. By the way, with what this cabinet invests in science, we are doing the European average well. Where it is left behind, it is mainly about private investment. But you have a point. That is why we have also referred to this as a point to which the Van Rijn Committee should look. How can we ensure that this intertwinedness of education and research is well reflected in funding? That's a complex discussion. I have spoken quite correctly here about the education budget. You are absolutely right that there is also science and that there is that connection between science and education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u35	Glad we agree so well, but if the Minister says that the universities are complaining and crying and that it's all Hollebolle Gijs and then I come to the point that it's something else because she doesn't have a certain aspect in her answer, then the Minister says: yes, but it's complex and I've just mentioned education. Isn't the Minister a little bit of a wrap himself around the facts? So we keep throwing mud at each other from two trenches, while as a SP'er I want to connect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u36	I can tell you that I have extremely good and fruitful discussions with the higher education institutions. So you don't have to worry about that. What I only wanted to show here is the fact that next year, 2019, there will be 577 million net investments in higher education and science. Anyone can say that this is too little and anyone can say that it should have happened in a different way, but this is just the bald fact. And it's pretty much 577 million investing in higher education and science in a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u37	The Minister does indeed continue to make comments on the facts before she begins her speech. All due respect for that, but I would also ask you to see that the subtext of that remark is, of course, that we did not have the facts in order. So I'm actually seeing a factually personal fact. So I would ask you, Mr President, not to include my question as an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u38	It counts double!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u39	You're also a creative mathematician, just like the minister. Mr Futselaar, of course, had a point. Suppose I give my son or daughter €100 pocket money and say that €80 of it is marked for clothing and €20 is marked for food and then I say: I only gave you €80 because I just don't count that €20 because it's not right for me. No one would accept that, but that is exactly what the Minister is doing when it comes to the state contribution per student in the wo. For convenience, she doesn't charge a part. I therefore object to the claim that the Minister has the facts and we do not. We have the full facts and not the selective facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u40	I do not believe that I have at any time claimed that anyone here has presented the wrong facts. I have just said that, because I often see that it is being pretended to be nothing but trouble and pain in higher education, I had the need to indicate the net amount invested next year. I've really made a decent sum of that, which I don't think anyone can beat. If someone says it's too little or that I have to spend it differently: be my guest. Nor have I reproached you, but I have had the need to put here what is in the budget at this point. That's all I've been trying to do. Apparently, that's a good thing for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u41	It came in very well. Thank you for the Minister's words. Finally, I want to end my personal reaction with the following. If we include the structural effects of the austerity of the Rutte I, II and III Cabinets for the coming years, which the Minister does not do because it may not suit her, we will see, for example, a net savings at the universities of EUR 65 million in 2019. Only in 2012 we see a plus of 7 million euros. So here too, when we include the full effects, we come to different facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u42	Maybe it's a good thing you're looking at these things again in a moment. Mr. Chairman. I've indicated what my cubes are. Before I go into these things, I have a reply to Mr Futselaar's question. Mr Futselaar asked me what my actions have been in the past year. That's actually a really nice question to answer. So thank you for that. In addition to these investments, we have achieved a great deal in the past year. I would like to give a summary of this, and I would like to confine myself to my own portfolio. Administrative agreements have been concluded with MBO and higher education, which form the outlines of quality agreements. Around internationalisation I have launched a number of measures and legislation. For example, the Higher Education Efficiency Committee has been advising for several months on the choice of language for new courses in relation to the labour market. Training courses should also explain their language choice as of February 2019 during accreditation. In order to promote accessibility and equality of opportunity in higher education, we cut tuition fees by half in the first half of the year and abolished the cascade payment in the MBO. For pabo-students, we cut the tuition fees by half for two years, and the influx increased by 11%. Legislation is coming up to stimulate smoother transitions and continuous learning in the professional column from VMBO to MBO. In this legislative proposal we also arrange for young people to obtain an MBO-2 diploma within the familiar environment of VMBO. Examination at the vmbo level may then be omitted. We have continued the Regional Investment Fund. 5 million extra has been made available for low-literacy. We give MBO schools extra support by helping them with Space in Rules, in order to stimulate innovation in vocational education. On 1 January, after years of debate, the financing of green education with other funded education will be harmonised. In doing so, we mitigate the mandate of the previous cabinet, and we have earmarked money for the smooth integration of green education, a total of 21 million. Mbo students are called "student" by law. And after years of discussion, there has also finally been clarity about the cost of studying these MBO students. We have extended cooperation with the Rainbow cities and increased the number to 49. Last month I also awarded the first two Stevin premiums for socially very relevant research to Prof. Beatrice de Graaf and Prof. Marion Koopmans. These are premiums of no less than EUR 2.5 million. So this was an anthology from the deeds of the past year. Last year, in the budget debate, I stated here that this cabinet is a knowledgeable cabinet. I believe that we have done so in the last year. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to move on to the block of accessibility and equality of opportunity in higher education. Last year I concluded an agreement with the colleges, universities and students on quality agreements. In this way, higher education has taken a new path, with returns no longer being the dominant factor. The aim is to improve the quality of education visible at colleges and universities. And students have an important voice in what good educational quality means at their institution. And I immediately agree with Mrs Tielen that return is a criterion, that it is important that education achieves results. But education should not only aim to obtain a diploma as soon as possible. Education has a broader societal challenge. I have referred to this as the 'bildungs- en liaison' of education. Studying is more than graduating. It's also about forming as a person and developing social qualities as a student. That is also what the labour market is asking for. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore prefer to talk about'studies success' rather than 'efficiency'. I believe that study success should be aimed at enabling as many students as possible who want and can, to successfully complete a higher education course. You can't do that if you try to push everyone through the same mold. Studies success is therefore one of the issues agreed in the agreement on quality agreements. By the way, we will continue to monitor progress on efficiency, but it is not all that matters to me. We must do everything we can to make higher education accessible to students. That is why I sent you a policy letter on this last week. Mr. Chairman. I note, together with the field of education, that in the dynamics of yield thinking the standard for binding study advice has been raised in recent years. In scientific education we see an average BSA standard of 45 credits, with outliers up to 60, and in HBO a BSA standard of 50 credits on average. This has the undesirable effect that talented students may be wrong in the first year and that the binding study advice has become increasingly selective. I find it undesirable for a student, due to a high BSA standard, not to be allowed to make a mistake anymore. I also find it undesirable if students are wrong to go to another institution and go to the same training there. Mr Van Meenen rightly said: that is pumping students around. So I do not think that is an efficient use of public funds. Students should be able to rely on good guidance within the programme, which responds to the student's support needs and focuses on that success. As Mr Van der Molen wrote in Trouw on 17 September: that ambition for better guidance needs to be raised. Together with them I also like to work on more space for flexible study. I firmly believe that the BSA standards are going to fit that thought. I want to talk about this with education. Previously, the inspection also set in the report a realistic standard of around 40 credits with both legs on the ground. I take this point into account in this discussion, in order to achieve a better balance between standardisation and support. The same applies to the new research I expect in spring 2019. I'll get back to your room on that. I see some of you thinking, "Wasn't she more definite before?" I can see Mr Futselaar thinking it. But sometimes to start a discussion you have to throw a stone in the pond. I'm certainly not going to make a habit of that, but in this case it had effect. I have noticed that this desire to do something about the study pressure among students lives wider and that students also like to be given more space for that development. Remember, these are first-generation students, who need extra time to adapt. That is why we want to use the time to come to arrive, together with the educational field, at a new balance between standards and good guidance. I am concerned that this objective is being achieved. If Mr Beertema calls me "the queen of accessibility," then I will take that as a compliment. I thank him very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u43	Then I'm gonna go with "Marquise of fine words but lack of action." Because I find it very easy to finish a big announced speech at the opening of the academic year afterwards with: yes, I wanted to throw a stone in the water to start a discussion. Surely it is not worthy of a minister to say this, if you stir up the whole field, if students don't know where they stand anymore, because they read that and ask themselves: does this mean that the binding study advice standard will expire? Universities and colleges of applied sciences will then have to explain this. Then you can't just stand here and say, "I wanted to start a discussion"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u44	I would have expected this question from Mr Futselaar. I have therefore read again very carefully and perhaps he can do the same as I said in Tilburg. I said yes, I would like to limit it. But I also said, and I ended with that, too, that I want to investigate how we are doing this in a good and balanced way. And I said, also from the point of view of the inspection, that I consider a 40-year-old standard to be realistic, because that was also the norm at the time that was said to provide a good basis for having that conversation with the student. But I actually said it there, as I thought afterwards, more balanced than some have thought. I had not discussed this with the institutions in advance, but I also think that a minister may occasionally start a discussion on his own initiative. I also gave that signal because we see that people are pushing each other up a bit. In the meantime, I am also very good at discussing this with the institutions and many of them recognize this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u45	It is now becoming a kind of exegesis of the Minister's words afterwards. But if my honourable colleague, Mr Kwint, is throwing stones at the Minister and I say first 'I'm going to cut back on that' and two months later 'I'm going to have a conversation with Mr Kwint to see if I can convince him to cut it down', then I think that's really two different things. I also think the Minister would see this as two different things. So I would like to say a little more about what she thinks of the unrest that she has created afterwards. Is that really just "a nice discussion"? Is that what the minister stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u46	No, definitely not. And my words that we have to put a stop to it mean that we have to look at it: how can you find a good balance when it comes to normalizing? That is what is not at all: standards. I'd like to do that, and that's what I'm talking about. If you say "there's a possibility of that binding study advice, but we're going to standard it, and we're going to set the norm in relation to good advice," then that's indeed a limit. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Hul has drawn attention to the risk of outage of students with a migration background and students with a disability. She's right to ask for that attention. It is important that in higher education attention is paid to groups that are particularly vulnerable, such as first generation students and students with a non-Western migration background. Good guidance can really make a difference for those students. This can be done with peer-to-peer guidance, but also with mentoring or coaching programmes and other guidance tools, for example. I refer, for example, to the Student 4-Students campaign, which I also support and which is also supported by ECHO, the Centre of Expertise on this issue. We are seeing good results and I certainly want to go down that road. So you had a point right there. Mr Bruins has asked for attention to be paid to a national study of performance pressure and psychological complaints among students. Recent research by RIVM also shows that there is no single cause for these psychological complaints, but that it is actually a accumulation of factors. This does not make it sufficiently clear which factors really have to do with education. What can you do from education? That is why it is necessary to carry out in-depth research, which the Secretary of State of VWS has also deported on my behalf. Together with the institutions, the student associations and the Disability Centre + Study, I have prepared a Joint Ambition Student Welfare, which includes the theme of psychological pressure. It was sent to your Chamber along with my letter on accessibility and equality of opportunity. It also agreed that we will continue to work for an inclusive educational environment. This also goes hand in hand with the fact that institutions and student associations will improve information on the facilities already available for vulnerable students, so that students can actually find the support offered. There is often a bottleneck there; one cannot find the help that is there. In the coalition agreement, 2 million additional funds were made available to institutions in order to provide the necessary financial support precisely for this group of vulnerable students. These parties will also exchange good practices. I support this with a grant to the Disability + Study Expertise Centre, which plays a binding role. Mr President, this was the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u47	I would like to thank the Minister for answering this matter. It is very good that she says that students should be able to find the low-threshold psychological aid. That information needs to be improved. I also need to know to what extent there is accessible psychological assistance in the educational institutions in the Netherlands, not only in higher education but also in the MBO. I would like to refer to the Bruins/Asante motion of February 2017, which explicitly calls for an action plan to be put in place to enable access to aid. The first step of such an action plan would be to identify the extent to which this psychological aid is available. Could I have a promise from the Minister that they will, preferably in the short term, be able to do so, because I have been waiting for almost two years for them to take that first step in identifying the extent to which there is low-threshold psychological assistance for students in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u48	That is what we have to do with all these institutions. I hear you want to do this for the MBO too, so that is a lot of institutions that we need to map out what facilities they now have. They're talking about it, but I'm gonna look at it, because there's a lot. Above all, we need to unlock that. Best practices need to be better shared. I am going to do my best to get you as much of what we can reasonably do about what that landscape looks like now, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u49	I'm glad the Minister keeps naming the study results. She calls it "studies success" and that is fine with me. We know that there is a relationship between the BSA and study success, so the binding study advice and study success. Now I have heard a whole debate about what the Minister had said and what she had not meant and so on. That is all very well, but I would like to hear very clearly once again in this Chamber what the Minister is and is not planning to do about the binding study advice. We have to look ahead and I do not want to have another discussion about what she meant and did not mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u50	I've announced I'm going to do more research. How can we achieve good standards, even in relation to good advice? I'm investigating that right now. I am also talking about this with the institutions. I will come back to you in the spring of 2019 on the question of which package of measures is included. This also means that conditions can be set, so that if you go beyond the 40, we will then make demands. It is about a balance between standards and good advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u51	I hear the minister say "we." She also talks about pursuing a generic standard. That's really not what I'm thinking. In order to prevent us from having another discussion in spring about what is and is not intended, it might be useful for the Chamber to give a ruling on what the Minister should and should not mean. But we will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u52	I think I've been very clear. I am going to see if we can find that balance and I am going to come to an agreement with the institutions on this. Mr. Chairman. I come to the block of education and the labour market, in which I would like to focus a little more on the MBO. But I'm gonna start with higher education. Mrs Tielen asked whether the HBO was sufficiently involved with the regional business community. Institutions are working much and more closely with industry to develop and keep up-to-date good training. Many training courses work with a so-called field commission, in which the relevant colleges and the declining profession field are present. The training profiles are also coordinated at national level. In their macro-efficiency applications, in which the training programmes argue the need for new training, it is also clear that institutions and employers are able to find each other well. These applications often refer to interviews with employers and often include statements of support from employers. In the NVAO accreditation procedure, attention is paid to continuing links between education and the labour market. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to secondary vocational education. I am truly pleased that some of your Members have so clearly emphasised the importance and value of the MBO here. Mr Özdil spoke warmly about the MBO and asked whether MBO graduates should not be given a title. I have already said that I do like that idea, but I would also like to know from students myself whether there is a need for it. I understand from the JOB that there is no such need. Mr Van der Molen said something very nice about this last Tuesday. He said: in this country you are not just someone when you can put something before or behind your name; you are especially someone because you can do something fantastic in society. With that, he hits the nail on the head. I couldn't agree more. If you're good at your job, you deserve appreciation, and not only if you have a title. Titles can of course be important or have a meaning in the international recognition of diplomas. I am talking about this international recognition with my colleagues in the Benelux countries and in Germany. This is primarily about the international recognition of each other's diplomas, so that MBO graduates can easily work across borders. So far, I have not received a signal that we need titulature to do so. If that is the case, I would like to look at it, because then it really has practical meaning, but so far the students say they do not need it. Nor have we so far received any signals in the debate on international recognition that it would be necessary. So: sympathetic but a little superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u53	Doctorandus Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Bologna criteria, I am Master of Arts. I don't think that's worth more or less than graduate MBOs. In my contribution I indicated that I, too, had a blind spot for the intellectual strength, the creativity that MBO students, our professional women and craftsmen exhibited. The Minister is quite right, of course, that support is important. That is why I have also put forward in my speech studies which we have had done and which others have done in support of. SBS6, Maurice the Dog, have it investigated among 2,000 people, MBO young people and their parents. Among those young people there was an overwhelming positive response. At our request, a poll was held among 142 MBO students, of whom 71% indicated that they consider Title very important in the appreciation and recognition they themselves claim to be entitled to, precisely because they are proud. I've been on the phone with the chairman of JOB, apprehending and talking to him. He says that in response to the media in a whatsapp group with board members he checked equally quickly what the sentiments are. The Minister is right to point out that acceptance is important. Is it prepared to have the support really examined before it draws any conclusions here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u55	I'm reluctant to do that. Once again, I believe that Mr Van der Molen has spoken correctly. It's the same reason why I rarely use both my titles, because I hope I'm just judged by what I do and what I can. What's important to arrange? What is at the forefront is the rapid international recognition of diplomas. That's how we make sure students can work. I haven't received a single signal that there is a great need for titulature. Before you came up with your proposal, there was also no sign of a great need in society for this titulature. At first, I responded to your proposal with: quite sympathetic. I can imagine that several people are reacting this way, but I really wonder if it would be wise to carry out an investigation in which I have not yet started an answer to the question of what problem I am going to solve with it. I have also shown appreciation for the MBO by calling them "student" in the law. That doesn't take this. I will get to work immediately if it is really necessary for the international recognition of diplomas, but I do not see the need for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u56	I'm sorry, but I'm really lost now, I say through the chairman. The Minister's argument for her statement is "very sympathetic, but not now" that there is no support for it. My question is then to investigate what the basis for that is. She replied: no, I am concerned about what they find abroad. What is it? If you are serious about this appreciation and image, I say through the President, then you also take the signals in society seriously. For example, this was indicated in a 2013 SER report. It is therefore documented that the low image and the low rating in the Netherlands, even more so than in other countries, is completely unjustified for professionals and that the image is very important to boost that appreciation. I would point out to the Minister that in our investigations we have received signals from MBO students who do. I do not understand why the Minister does not agree with my request that at least in the Netherlands we examine the basis of support. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u57	I think I've been very clear. Nor can I see that your colleagues are very confused about what I said. I believe you're the only one here. Look, it's two things that matter to me. There is no need for international recognition. I very much agree with you that this social appreciation for the MBO is very important, but we do not need that title. At the time when you presented your proposal, I did not receive any compelling signals that this titulature is really a very important element in the solution. Neither did the ESC. If you ask what is the most important thing we can do for the MBO, then this is not at the top of my priority list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u58	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u59	I would like to make a factual comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u60	One second, Minister. Mr. Özdil, you just said you wanted to do interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u61	I have a factual remark. The minister just said, just claimed, that the ESC would not have said that titulature is important. However, the 2013 SER report literally states that linking a title to the diploma would be an important step. As an example, the master title is used there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you. The point is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u63	I will read it back, but I have never seen it as the most intrusive element of the ESC's opinion. Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to Mrs Tielen's question on the link between business and vocational education. Of course, that also plays in the MBO. In the MBO we have arranged it in such a way that all qualification files require consultation between education and industry. This applies to all training courses in all sectors, and this is done within the cooperation organisation VET and business, which is also really supported by both of them. In addition, I encourage the integration of the regional labour market through the introduced choices. With the Regional Investment Fund, which we have continued, I also encourage innovation and public-private cooperation in the MBO. We do it all over the country. A good example is Zwolle when it comes to e-commerce. That's booming business in that region. Education and business are working very closely together at the E-commerce Top Centre to meet the labour shortages in this area. This cooperation is therefore very close and it is also at the heart of the agreements we made with the MBO in the sector agreement I concluded with them. This is reflected in everything in the regional cooperation between education and industry. Mr. Chairman. There were also questions about the practical learning scheme. I agree with the importance of this arrangement, but I also have a broader responsibility for my budget as a whole. In spring, decision-making will take place on how this scheme will be designed for the 2019-2020 school year. I would like to say to you that this is a multiannual scheme and that the series are in the budget. What I cannot promise you is that this arrangement, when it comes to spring and Princess Day decision-making, will remain outside the overall budget balance. That would really be contrary to our system of budgeting, in which we make an integral assessment of the whole budget twice a year. Mr. Chairman. That seems to me to be a logical bridge to the heading of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u64	But not until after we have heard Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u65	Yeah, 'cause that question didn't come for nothing, of course. The importance of this scheme is constantly being stressed. There are always proposals coming from the cabinet to the Chamber in which there is still a cut on that arrangement. Then the Chamber itself must act again to fix that. You can do it one time, the other time you can't. The cabinet itself gives a positive pre-advisation on 19 million extra for this scheme, which is de facto not covered because the gap is increasing. That was all fine, but we want to get rid of this mess. We want to get rid of this uncertainty for the MBO and for the companies that employ these people. Then it would simply help if the Minister said here: we are going to continue with this arrangement as agreed; we are not going to go any further on this, because we think it is important that these students can finally learn a profession in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u66	I think I agree with Mr Kwint on many points. Yes, I prefer a multi-annual arrangement, and I also say that the series are in the budget. But I have the responsibility for the whole budget. There are more organisations that contribute to education and would also like to have multi-annual security on all their money. I can't offer them either. I am bound by how we agreed on this in this country. There are two moments in the year when we make an overall assessment of the whole budget to see how we balance it and how we ensure that it complies with the budgetary rules. You all understand very well that I would go far beyond my bounds if I were to say here that we are going to put that between hooks. The budgetary system says 'an integral consideration twice a year', but my intention is as I said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u67	That's very nice. We're here at one of those two moments in the year. We are here with the budget. We ask for the commitment to that arrangement. Moreover, it is a relatively cheap arrangement. The children who are going to study in that company to learn a profession are cheaper than going to a regular MBO institution. That money all ends up, well, for two thirds of them, with small or medium-sized entrepreneurs who desperately need it for that support. In this way we can well train young people for a relatively low amount, but they are now in that uncertainty, that continuous uncertainty. Does the Minister agree with me, then, let me put it this way, that just this uncertainty, this fuss every time and that back-up might lead to the loss of these internships and learning places?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u68	I always hope that companies will see for themselves how important this is. It is people they employ and they also do work there. In a time of shortages, I think "well, you have a great interest in that too," but apart from that. Yeah, this is the moment we're here together. And yes, this is when we are discussing the 2019 budget. I have told you that there will be an arrangement, that it is multiannual and that the series are in the budget. But what you cannot ask of me is: at the time when you are going to talk about the budget of the OCW at these weighing moments in the cabinet in the next few years, you should not include this arrangement in the overall balance. That is something the Finance Minister, I believe, would not allow me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u69	We have a very good Minister of Finance; I would like to start with that. But we also have a sensible Chamber and the Chamber has a budget right. We are talking about the budget now. I am extremely pleased that this budget says that we want to invest at least until 2023 in learning places for MBOs. We have also really had a time, in the crisis, that they were nowhere to be found and that young people were trapped in their education. We don't want to repeat that. So where we can help the business community, we have to do so. The Minister states: I would get it up with the Minister of Finance. I understand that, too. But I ask the Minister that she should understand a Chamber that says: I understand that balance in the cabinet, but this is where we place the priority. We want to give companies and students the assurance that this scheme will remain in place, even though we will have to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u70	I understand that sense of the Chamber very well. I just hope he understands my position, too. Every year, we make an overall assessment of the whole budget. I cannot predict what considerations we will be faced with in the years to come. In fact, we talk about the budget here every year. Then it's decided. I have been very clear about my intention here, but you cannot pin me on the overall balance that must be made in all the budgets in the coming years. I understand your wishes very well, and of course I have them very well in my ears at that integral consideration. But you can't do it outside of that integral consideration. That would be fundamentally contrary to the way in which we weigh all budgets in full every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u71	I also understand the position of the Minister; let there be no misunderstanding about that. However, the simple fact that this Chamber, in the General Political Reviews Chamberwide, reverses a planned austerity, shows that the Court's opinion is that there should be a fence around it. I would therefore ask the Minister whether, when a motion is tabled for this to be settled, she says that she is leaving that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u72	I understand that wish very well, but if the Chamber comes up with a motion that is really different on this point from how we deal with the integral weighting of budgets in the cabinet, then I have no choice but to discourage it. You understand that very well. Of course, the signal that the Chamber is sending out to me at the General Reviews and here about this regulation is absolutely clear. And again, that's very good with me at the moment we make that integral consideration. But if the Chamber comes up with a motion from which this very sensible Minister of Finance would also say 'yes, Madam Minister, it is really contrary to the way in which I deal with the various budgets in the Cabinet', then I can only discourage that motion. I believe that this is a clear suggestion for possible texts. Mr. Chairman. Let's move on to finance. Among other things, Mr Van Meenen has drawn attention to the financial reserves of the universities. His question was: doesn't there really remain too much money on the shelf? I also asked the VSNU that question. I can tell you that the VSNU has shown its willingness to look at this. The September paper of the VSNU, Space for Investment and talent, states that universities will cooperate to ensure that money for education and research is not left on the shelf. If you were to ask me how many reserves are really available right now, I still owe you that answer. I don't know right now. We really need to look at that together and deeper. But if it is true that there is unnecessary money left on the shelf, then of course we agree that this is an undesirable situation that we really need to do something about. So, together with the institutions, their supervisory boards and the inspection, we need to see if we can use some of those financial buffers for education and research, and what are the responsible risks. The fact that the VSNU itself did that hand-off shows me that there is room there. But I really want to look at that in full precision, so that we can do it responsibly. But the fact that these reserves have risen over the past few years and that I really see institutions where solvency is far above the alert value gives me the feeling that there is room here. But I can't quantify it in any reasonable way right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u73	That's actually a very worrying signal. I have tried to do so by looking at general reserves. Does the Minister agree with me that you can expect a general reserve to have no destination, that you can expect no money to be stuck in stones there? And does the Minister agree with me that, if there is money stuck in stones, then that has been a choice and not an outside forced situation, but that you can also make other choices, as happens in HBO, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u74	I am not going to have a debate with Mr Van Meenen on exactly what exactly you should and should not put into which reserve. This also has to do with the way auditors look at it, but it does not seem to me to be a very fruitful discussion for this debate. He does have a point about how you handle the real estate. I would also like to have this discussion with the institutions. Is it wise at this time, for example, to first save everything and then invest per fund in buildings, or is treasury banking more sensible at the moment? If you look at all these resources, how can we achieve the most efficient use of them? I'd like to take a look at that with him. How can we use all these resources as cleverly as possible, so that there is as little money stuck in reserves as possible and the institutions are solid and do not take irresponsible risks? How can we liquefy as much of that money as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u75	That sounds extremely sensible to me. However, I do note that the Minister, who has the annual accounts in her ministry, cannot draw from those annual accounts what is actually available. This obviously requires a wide-ranging discussion with the institutions, and I find that very worrying in itself. I would therefore ask the Minister to look very closely at this point in the whole relationship with real estate in those talks. It is my belief that, especially if the universities themselves state that the need is so high despite all the money that comes towards them, they must do everything they can to make the money liquid. So they shouldn't have an attitude of leaning back, saying it's stuck and we can't reach it. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u76	I would like to say to Mr Van Meenen that we are going to take this point explicitly into account in these discussions. Mr. Chairman. As in many sectors, researchers and teachers in higher education rightly call for attention to be paid to their workload. I am also thinking, for example, of accompanying WOinAction, which I have spoken about. But also to the signals you received in the hearing on workload. The Rathenau Institute pointed out to you that institutions themselves are often responsible for this high workload and for the many flexible contracts. That is why, together with universities and colleges of applied sciences, I am also looking at the causes and possible solutions for this workload. It is very clear to me that we need to work on reducing temporary contracts. This gives rise to much of the feeling of pressure on teachers. It struck me when I visited institutions where I encountered WoinAction, that was especially the point I was reminded of. It's people right to be high up. That is what we are talking about with institutions, because there is a valid point. Mr. Chairman. Comments were also made on the ten-year interest rate. There were no questions about it, but I still need to say something about it. Honestly, I'm very honest about that. It's not my favorite measure either, but I do understand him. These are long-term loans with long-term commitments. You're gonna have to pay an appropriate interest rate on that. I fully understand that the CDA and the Christian Union have opted for this measure in the pass-through of their election programme in order to correct the sustainability deficit of their programme. This seems to some people, of course, very far away, but here, too, the question is ultimately: do we take responsibility for the sustainability deficit here, or do we transfer it to future generations? From that point of view, I understand that measure. Of course, no one really likes doing this, but let's also take a good look at the effects of this. It's a good thing to see that effect. With an average student debt of €21,000, the monthly refund amount will increase by about €12. This is an increase of €70 to €82, but please note: only if a student's income is sufficient. For example, with an income of €40,000 that is not a very low income.... the interest rate increase has no effect. It will have no effect, because the social payback conditions protect the former student from too high a monthly burden. I had that mapped out very clearly as well. For example, for people who have low income after their studies, the effect in their monthly expenses is zero. I believe that none of us like this measure. Yes, it is important that we also make public finances sustainable in the future and that we contain the sustainability deficit, but let us also be honest with the students about what this means in the future, and let us not unduly scare people. These are the clear facts again. I understood earlier that Mr Özdil would very much like a very quick decision on this bill. I think it's been signed up for plenary. As far as I am concerned, you can just vote on Tuesday, but that is of course up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u77	You must have some nerve. You must have some real nerve chasing the students on expense. For students that is rather quickly relatively much. It is then said that this is what we do to maintain the sustainability balance. If we do not correct all the expenditure of this cabinet with the occasional windfalls, the sustainability surplus is -0.4%. That's really irresponsible. Fortunately it is 1% this year, but that is mainly because there are many occasional windfalls. And then we take a little bit away from the students because of the reason for a structural shelf life surplus. That is really strange, because in the context of the reduction in corporate tax, we are giving away EUR 1.5 billion, which is not necessary at all. That's not necessary at all at this time. That's what the CPB says, and that's what the Council of State says. So I really think this is a bit of a false story, too, if I'm being honest. The minister had me at the beginning, when she said, "Let's look at the facts." But the facts are that we are taking away a very small amount of money, which is a lot for the students, and that we are giving this to the big companies in particular through the reduction of corporate tax. I think that is irresponsible, and I do not think I can explain it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u78	I can explain it very well, because we have the instrument of the study advance not only for this year but long-term. You can see that the outstanding loans are on the rise. These are long-term loans, which the government must also finance. You have to balance that somewhat in order to keep it truly sustainable in the long term. We are talking not only about the students of today, but also about tomorrow's students and the students of the day after tomorrow. Of course, no one really likes to explain this, but let's be honest about its effect. Only for students who will really have a decent income, this really counts in their monthly expenses. For example, if you earn more than €40,000, it goes to €12 per month. So let us be equally real about the effects of this, but I think it is very appropriate that this cabinet should say: we have a system of long-term loans, which should be subject to long-term financing, and we take account of this sustainability deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u79	I really do not understand how the Minister can explain why he is choosing to give EUR 1.5 billion a year to reduce corporate tax and then partly compensate for this by removing it from students. I just think that's weird. The Minister is looking at me, but that is how this communicates. Those are choices you make, including the reduction of corporate tax. That reduction is not necessary. In the neighbouring countries, corporation tax is often higher. It's not necessary at all. Nor is it necessary to drive the economy forward. We're in the middle of a boom. And then you say: yes, but we still have to ask the students for a small contribution. The cabinet makes choices. They're not meant to help the students. It's no use to them. They complain about it and find it unjust. I just think it's a bad story. I don't understand either. Why spend EUR 1.5 billion each year on a structural reduction in corporation tax and then say: we are going to raise interest rates a little bit for students?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u80	I explained why that is the case. The debate on the government's decision to reduce corporation tax has been held several times here in the Chamber. I don't think it makes any sense to do that here today. I'd be repeating myself. I understand that it is not your choice, but I think it is very much to be defended in order to bring interest rates into balance with the duration of the loan, with a very clear effect for students because of the enormous social reimbursement scheme that comes with the study advance. Mr Azarkan feels differently. That's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u81	The Minister once again claims that the increase in student debt interest rates is about the sustainability of public finances in 2060. The Chamber requested this by means of written questions by means of written consultations. The Minister himself has indicated that these are her own words: "The government does not consider that the study funding system is financially unsustainable." She turned that in herself. And, she says about the assumption that the increase in student interest would improve finances: there are no findings from independent parties to this. In answers to questions from the Chamber, she states herself that her own claim is not based on anything. How is the Minister able to make a claim that she has already acknowledged is not based on anything? How does she do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr Özdil must be a bit precise. I never said the system would become untenable otherwise. I did say that it contributes to improving sustainability. That's something else. Improving the shelf life is something else than saying: otherwise it will become really untenable. There's still a lot of space in there. So please be a little precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u83	This clarification by the Minister merely indicates that she is making a claim that is unsubstantiated. It's not about shelf life, but it's about shelf life. Everyone's lost it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u84	No. It is about improving sustainability. You can say every time you are wrong that everyone has lost their way, but I see colleagues who have not lost their way at all. There is a factual difference between whether something is completely unsustainable or whether you can improve its shelf life. There is often a lot of difference between whether something can't be done at all and whether you can improve something. That's often the case. Those are also gradual scales. I hope you have a bit of an eye for that nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u85	I thank the Minister. In other words, she says here: we're just going to milk students. Well, that's good then. My final question is this. Following the broken promise of pre-investment in educational quality, this cabinet, with a D66 minister, is now threatening to break a promise, namely that interest on student debt would remain low. Does the Minister agree with me that D66's promise as an educational party is not worth a slap in the face in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u86	I totally disagree with both Mr Özdil's statements. I have just tried to explain to you the effects that this has on students and on what incomes that is going to apply. I understand that this is an answer that Mr Özdil does not like, but I think it is a bit of a cheap trick to do this kind of text. I'm just trying to explain it in a very factual way. That you are not satisfied with that is your right. But let us continue to use a bit of normal words. Mr. Chairman. I've come to the shortage of teachers. If there is something that concerns Mr Slob and I daily, then that is the shortage of teachers. Mr Slob will deal with this in detail later. I am doing this briefly as far as my own area is concerned. Teacher training obviously plays a very important role in tackling the shortage of teachers. They are therefore themselves working on more attractive courses, inter alia by doing the differentiation within training courses and by training and guidance of students together with the schools. Training is therefore done more in the school. They are also working on more customization for side-intromers. With the halving of tuition fees for the first two years, we also contribute to making these courses more attractive. What is unique in the Netherlands is the part-time factor. It is large in those sectors where deficits are also high. This also offers opportunities because a lot of potential is still untapped. This concerns me not only as Minister of Education, but also as Minister of Emancipation. With the interdepartmental policy research, we are going to look at how so many women work part-time in certain sectors. Recently, McKinsey said that the deficits in health and education could largely be remedied if all women working part-time were to work more hours. The cabinet is working to improve the framework conditions for them, including a tax review, investment in childcare and the extension of parental leave. Of course, we can't do that alone. Employers remain the key factor in this. We want to continue to involve them in this. I would also like to mention the importance of the diversity of teachers. Mrs van den Hul, Mrs Westerveld and Mr Azarkan rightly pointed out this. I will continue to draw attention to the importance of schools and institutions. As a minister at institutions, where I am responsible for the appointment of supervisory boards, that is always something I consider very strongly. And I expect others to do the same. Diversity is not only good for the teams, it also ensures that students and students get good role models. So it is very important that we all strive for an image for the class that corresponds to the diversity in society. Mr. Chairman. There were many other questions in the field of emancipation, but they were answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u87	It is a fine aim and it is commendable that the Minister talks with lectures, boards of directors and so on as much as possible. She says she assumes that others think it is important. My question is what we are going to do about it. Are there targets? Is there going to be a plan of action? It is a persistent problem in many places in society. Are we really gonna do this now? Is the Minister coming up with a concrete action plan? 'Cause it's not gonna happen by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u88	No, it's definitely not gonna happen by itself. We really still have a long way to go, but for the time being I choose the way to continue to hold the conversation, to set a good example and to point out the importance of reflecting society for the classroom and the lecture hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u89	In my opinion, this good example does not appear in the government, especially in the higher scales. There it is quite dramatic; I have been able to walk around there for a number of years. I think it's a bit of a lame story. We think it's important because we see that several teams perform well. We think it is important because we see that people recognise themselves when there is a reflection of society. But we're just gonna talk about it. Is the Minister prepared to do more than just say that he is going to have the conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u90	First of all, let me say that I wanted to take a look at myself before I come up with all kinds of tough measures for others. To be honest, I wasn't proud of it when I found out that my own department isn't exactly the most diverse department. I have spoken to the administration about this: this must be a real priority. I think that as a minister, I really should set an example. But if you are asking me at this point whether I am coming up with a concrete action plan on this point, the answer is no, but I will continue to set an example and continue to emphasise it. And I will continue to ensure that it is an essential criterion where I actually have powers of my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u91	Mrs van den Hul may still be here, but then she really should be at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u92	I thought my neighbor wanted to ask another follow-up question. That's why I kept my distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u93	That's what he wanted, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u94	The Minister had completed her response in the field of emancipation. I am missing two points, first of all the issue of IHBT security. In the written reply, the Minister says that she is talking about this with her colleagues at JenV and that we will be informed about it next year in the feedback emancipation. Seven out of ten Ibtis face verbal and physical violence. Last year there were no less than 1,200 reports, which is estimated to be just the tip of the iceberg. 1,200 reports! So that's at least three a day. We think it is too long to wait until the feedback next year. Unfortunately, there are too many people involved in this. We tabled this motion six months ago together with Mr Sjoerdsma. We think it is too long to wait another six months for the feedback. Can the Minister speed this up? The second point I missed concerns prevention. We see that men are overrepresented in the statistics of perpetrators of sexual violence, of physical violence, of violence behind the front door, and so I can continue. The Minister mentions three very good projects in the reply. I know all three of them. They are certainly worth supporting as far as we are concerned. But we also say: is that enough? Is that enough to tackle the problem in a structural way? I would therefore like to ask the Minister if she can say more about what she is going to do in the area of prevention, for example with regard to safe cities or education. How are we going to ensure that boys and men are really involved in this emancipation policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u95	It is good that Mrs van den Hul herself is already talking about the cities, the issue of social security. I understand her impatience, but the motion is from six months ago and we really need to do this as well. I recently increased the number of Rainbow cities. For example, when it comes to social security and the position of men, things can often be done locally much more comprehensively and more effectively than nationally. I have therefore increased the number of cities. I'm also talking to them in a very concrete way. What can they do locally to deal with that? We support them in that. I'm very attached to that network. Actually, I've called all these 49 cities to take another municipality with us when we get back together. In this way, we can make the network ever more solid and expand, so that all the municipalities work hard on it and everyone can feel safe on the street, regardless of his orientation or who he loves. I think that is very important, and we really need to deal with it locally. I understand your impatience. I understand that you say that we can always do more and better, but sometimes we also have to row with the belts we have and really see how we can do that step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u96	I understand that and I agree that it is very important to ensure this theme locally. I am therefore pleased that the Minister is discussing this. And yet I wonder why these conversations with JenV take so long. Is there any resistance? Is there a problem in implementation? I would ask the Minister to stay on top of that as a responsible minister for emancipation. Then there is the issue of prevention and men. With all due respect, I would like to say once again that there are three very good projects, but that is not enough as far as we are concerned. So what is the Minister going to do to appeal to her colleagues in other departments to prevent this? I would say that almost the entire budget of the JenV Ministry is gender-specific. In fact, most of it goes to violence committed by men. What is the Minister going to do to get the prevention there properly on the retina?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u97	Prevention and gender-specific policies need to be seen everywhere. Of course we have projects and of course there can always be more, but my budget on that point is also finite. We look very closely at all the regulations we get and at everything other departments do. We're looking very closely at whether it's been taken into account. I have that conversation with all my colleagues all the time. Have you been watching this? Well, let's face it, that's sometimes pushing and pulling. Not everywhere, in every office in The Hague, that's very good. I feel it's my responsibility to make sure that happens. That means you have to raise your finger all the time and say, "Have you looked at this?" Have you seen this? Maybe it doesn't happen as soon as you, or I, would like, but we're going to notice it in the pieces that come here. They will increasingly call for specific attention to be paid to this issue. I understand your impatience very well. Yeah, I do. But it is also a persistent problem in society. You also know very well that you can't just turn a button and then it's solved. It takes a long-term, long-term breath. That's exactly what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u98	I guess we're going to the science block now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr President, I have two more points on teachers. Mrs Tielen and Mr Van der Molen have drawn attention to the following. It is also a good thing that they have drawn attention to this. What are the obstacles when employees are lent to education by companies to teach there? What are the obstacles to those hybrid teachers? They are particularly valuable in vocational education. With one leg they stand in business practice and with the other leg in education. I'm talking to the field right now to map the bottlenecks. We identify them first and then, of course, we have to deal with them. Because you really want as many teachers as possible who have that wish to combine things. I really think it is a very promising and beautiful form, which can also contribute to solving the shortage of teachers. In the progress report teachers we will also come back to those bottlenecks and our solutions. Finally, on the subject of teachers. Mr Bruins asked about the extension of the Wbso regime. I'm gonna talk to Treasury about it. It is ultimately a question of a financial arrangement, so the debate will also have to take place there. But I'll do it on my own. I can assure Mr Van Meenen that I will conclude the discussions on the educational master's degree with the right of instruction for the Spring paper, so that you know where you stand. Mr. Chairman. It is good to talk about science here, although there will soon be an extensive letter to your Chamber. Then we'll talk more about it. Mr Van Meenen asked me, on behalf of Mr Van der Molen, how I felt about the ambition of the Einstein Telescope in South Limburg. It's about a lot of money there. This calls for a careful and rather difficult cost-benefit analysis. How much scientific relevance is it really? Is there a good business case? Is the bottom of South Limburg really suitable? Next week I will be talking to my Flemish colleague at the Flemish-Dutch summit. I have taken note of the European funding application for the Einstein Telescope Field Lab, the Pathfinder. That's what you asked for. It's in preparation. It's a preparation for participating in that Einstein Telescope. It is a very nice initiative, in which the Netherlands is working on a strong knowledge position in the research into gravity waves, without any further obligations. I'm following this initiative with interest. We're gonna look at it very carefully. Finally, Mr President. As you can see, in our first year we have been working very hard. There's a lot of investment going on. Much has been achieved, but a great deal remains to be done. However, I believe that this budget is again taking important steps in the field of education and science. Also in the field of culture, but we are going to talk about this at another time. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you. It was a nice last word. There are a few more questions, and then I'll suspend for lunch. After lunch, we're gonna listen to Secretary Slob. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u101	I missed something about the Van Rijn Committee in the Minister's response. I must confess that I was actually hoping that she would say here that that was throwing a stone in the pond and that she had come back to that. I would like not only to present the Minister but also to the Chamber the following. What is a more logical way of dealing with this complex, really complex issue, namely the funding of universities: a committee of five people, one of whom has one HBO administrative experience, one of a university and three come out of care, or a minister working on it full-time and has 4,100 highly educated, experienced officials who know the field and have been working on it for years? My tendency is to say that the latter seems more appropriate. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u102	No, and that seems to me to be a bit of a question about the familiar answer. If I had agreed with you, I wouldn't have set up that committee. Why do we do that? What you see in the CHEPS report is that they have looked at individual questions and what the answers might be. What they didn't do is wonder what happens when you pull through the knitting needle and do things in conjunction. Everything has to do with everything and then everything gets moving again. That is extremely complex. With this committee, I will add people who know a lot about complex financial systems. It is also true that I could not have done so more quickly, because the Van Rijn Committee will be reporting as early as next spring. So no, it's not a shred of responsibility. I had the same conversation with the committee. They also asked me: who will be responsible for the final choice? Of course I am. This funding is extremely complex. We know that this must be done within the existing frameworks. Everything you do at one point has an effect on the other. We need to be able to see that in conjunction. Hence my choice of doing so through this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u103	It is complex and I understand the need for an transcendent knitting needle pricking or whatever the minister calls it, but the person who has an overview of all facets and should bring it all together is the minister and not someone flying in from outside. But I have another question about that committee. There's someone in there with a fairly recent connection with a college and also someone from a university. Doesn't it make sense to at least add someone who has links with student organisations, so that there is something of a balance because these organisations also have quite an interest in the results of this committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u104	It is good practice that we always involve students in such reports, for example through a sounding board. We have now chosen to put the committee together on the basis of expertise because it is really very complex financial matter. Of course I will also involve student organisations in my final choice and consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u105	I have two points, one of which I should have mentioned to the MBO; I hope the President will forgive me. The first is about chef's training. I had asked a question about this and the Minister replied that if social and professional developments demand that those vegetable diets be more included, they will look at it. There is also a measurement on sustainability. We believe that there is a great deal of reason for society. I have examples. I call the growth of meat substitutes by 75%. ABN AMRO, the retail organisation and Pig Business also indicate it. So is the Minister prepared to take an active look at this, especially since the government itself has its own responsibility? It is not just about monitoring social and professional developments, but also about the government's own responsibility in the protein transition to actively look at how we can stimulate these plant and vegetarian vocational training. That's question one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u106	Together with colleague Van Veldhoven I sent a letter to the SBB asking to look at the sustainability of all those qualification files. Eventually, those qualification files will come back to me and I approve of them. Of course, I am going to make sure that it has been done in a good way, but the primary responsibility for making these dossiers lies with the educational institutions and the business community. But, of course, we will be paying attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u107	Thank you for this commitment, which you would make anyway. Perhaps the Minister could say something about the time limit for this to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u108	We have, by my mind, almost 600 qualifying files. There's a lot of them. That's what they're gonna look at. So I can't tell at what rate what. It is, in the first instance, a real responsibility of the parties themselves. So I really cannot give you an exact moment at which this qualification dossier will come to my attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u111	We'll do the interruptions in two. Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u112	My colleague, Mr Van der Molen, has asked about the accessibility of higher education in terms of eliminating deficiencies. The Minister replied in writing to the deficiency test. However, we were interested in whether the influx test, which is a 21-plus test, could be brought forward from 21 to the moment that students come from training and want to influx, whereas their profile does not seem to fit optically, but after such a test in higher education they do seem to be able to work excellently on the study of their choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u113	I understand Mr Van der Molen's question very well, but it is two different things. The 21-plus test, which is also used for 21-min in a number of cases, is really for cases where one does not have a diploma or the distance is very large. A wrong profile is about a deficiency. Now is a student who wants to start depending on the institution for offering the deficiency test. I have dealt with this in the written replies. I think that Mr Van der Molen's question is a very fair one. You don't want students who make a choice for a profile at 15 and find out at 18 that their interest lies elsewhere, for example in technology. Shouldn't we see if that deficiency test is always available? I think that is a smarter way to respond to this question than the 21-plus test, because it really is for something different target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u114	But I note that the influx test, the 21-plus test, is an option for refugee children, and that deficiency test means the vavo route. That means a lot of delay for the upcoming students. The Minister indicated that he was sympathetic to this. I therefore ask the Minister whether she would also like to take this 21-plus test into account in the discussions she is going to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u115	It's not quite the vavo route. You could see if a deficiency test can be speeded up. It's also in the student's interest to do it right. If you want to do a technical study with a wrong profile and are lacking in physics or mathematics B, it is also in your interest, also in your preparation for that study, to do that deficiency test, because it makes sure that you make up for exactly the right deficit. That does the 21-plus test just a little less. I also see Mr Bruins nodding behind you. I understand very well what the question is and I very much agree with you that we need to find a good solution to this, but I would like to do so along that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u116	There are two subjects on which I would like to have a brief exchange of views with the Minister in this Chamber. The first concerns the estimates of international students. In her written reply, the Minister states that she is talking about this, but I would like a promise from the Minister that we will be documented separately so that we can better evaluate it over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u117	These estimates include the international students. I do attach great importance to an overall estimate, because in the end it is also about what happens to the total. The international students are included. I say this to you, because I think that is the point. How can we ensure that these international students are better estimated? That's why I'm going through the systematics first. Can we predict that in a good way, are they in those estimates in a good way? But I wouldn't want to do that as a sort of separate estimate, because we have to make sure that that estimate is accurate on all fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u118	I do not know yet whether I am entirely satisfied with the answer, but shall I start with the second subject, Mr President? Or would you like Mr. Van Raan to interrupt again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u119	You may also start with your third or your fourth topic, but interruptions go in half, so fill it as you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u120	Fine. Then I have a question about labelling in accreditation, about good and excellent. The Minister also replied to me, but I would like to remind you of the motion adopted by the Chamber. For its operative part is as follows: "In the event that the current differentiated assessments under the law are amended, the Government requests that an alternative to the differentiated assessments in another form be provided by summer 2018 which also reflects excellence'. Now I really do forgive the Minister for not doing so before the summer of 2018, but from the part about "wherever excellence is expressed," I would really like to hear from the Minister how she sees that coming back in her current proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u121	I believe that this is also contained in the accreditation framework that is also in your Chamber at the moment. The problem with that judgment "excellent" was that NWO says of it: we cannot do that in a reliable way. So you can't do that on that route. What we said in the accreditation framework is very good. The information available from it shows a lot about the quality of the institution. But there is, of course, a problem when we say on the one hand that we have seen that this label 'excellent' is not reliable in this way. There was also a broad wish in this Chamber to say: then we do not do that anymore. That's why I don't have any other route to reliably label "excellent" right now. What we are showing is that the accreditation framework reveals so much information that it may prove so. But if, on the one hand, it is said by the Chamber 'because we do not have a reliable way of setting the label 'excellent', we do not want you to use it anymore', I cannot do so by another route. The accreditation framework currently depends on your Chamber. So the room still has room to find something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u122	I had a few questions about the BPRC. The Minister replied in writing, but I still have follow-up questions. For the Chamber has said that the BPRC must be phased out and only the research into life-threatening diseases and infectious diseases can continue. That is also laid down in a motion by Mrs Tielen. I asked the Minister: can we not reduce that basic scientific research, because that is not about infectious diseases? The Minister says that this can also be covered by fundamental research. But then I'll take the Rathenau report, prepared on behalf of the government itself. Rathenau writes: it involves applied translational research, research carried out for the development of vaccines and medicines, emergencies such as virus outbreaks or, for example, applications in transplant medicine and infectious disease control. So that's not basic scientific research. That's really a different category. So you can continue to do research on those infectious diseases if you phase out basic scientific research. That is why my question, and that is the wish of the Chamber, is: put forward a proposal on what basic research can be phased out. Because only with a decrease in the breeding colony will we not get there. And then there will be no response to the wishes of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u123	This is a repetition of questions that I think we have also discussed in a rather detailed AO. The conclusion of that AO was, on the one hand, that I proposed a 40% reduction at BPRC, where at the end of this year there was a plan of action, that I could send to your Chamber as soon as possible and in which Mrs Tielen's wish was also respected. Moreover, this is a broad wish in the Chamber to take into account the fact that we are not at risk, for example, of research into life-threatening diseases. I understand the impatience very well, but now there is a real commitment. That plan is being made. I'll be in your room as soon as I can with a letter on that. Then we'll talk about it again. I understand that you want to ask these questions every time, but I have now given my answer as I have given it, and we will come back to that when the BPRC proposal is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u124	One further question, because I am referring explicitly to basic scientific research. The Minister says: applied translational research is perhaps also fundamental scientific research. Can the Minister then give a list of the studies that are taking place in the BPRC so that we can look at them, including by external experts, what research is essential to the fight against infectious diseases and life-threatening diseases and what research is not? Alzheimer's research, for example, is very low. This could be deleted without endangering public health, because it is very low for patients. Can the Minister provide such a list so that experts can see what could possibly be deleted without affecting public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u125	Then I'm gonna repeat myself. After the AO, we have promised: BPRC comes with the condition that it does not jeopardise the research that we really need for life-threatening diseases. And there will also be different views on this: what is it and what isn't? I would ask you to be patient; let us do this now in a careful process. First of all, the proposal for phasing out, then the cabinet response to it, and then we are going to discuss it in detail with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u126	Very good. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u127	I have a question for the Minister about an afternoon of teacher inspiration, about an activity in which skills are developed to deal with how problem-solving and creative ability can be stimulated with teachers. Would you describe that as an activity related to education, or do you say: a teacher's afternoon of inspiration, or developing skills, really has nothing to do with educational activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u128	I can't answer that question in abstraction. Then I really should know more specifically what this is about. Then you also need to know what this teacher's inspiration afternoon has for content in order to be able to judge that. I have the feeling that Mr Van Raan wants to go somewhere with his question, but let him say that explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u129	I had that impression, too. I felt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u130	I share that impression with myself and with the Chamber, so that's nice. It is quite extraordinary that the Minister says 'then I need to know what that is about', because we have sent all the information to the Minister, including the programme of what would be done on that teacher's afternoon, so the Minister might know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u131	Ah, but tell me right away, you're talking about Discovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u132	It's about Shell Discover, of course. We were there and it was about the inspection. To the questions we asked, the Minister replied: the inspection is not competent there, because it has no legal authority to visit such a festival. This would only be the case if there were activities related to education. And my question is: can you find a teacher's inspirational afternoon where teachers will talk to Shell about how children can develop skills, an activity related to education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u133	The inspection is competent when it comes to education as we know it. This is an activity of private parties. Teachers, teachers and classes can choose whether or not to go there. The inspection has no role in that. It is up to the whole professional people in education to determine whether this is relevant to them and whether they want to do so. It is a free country where these kinds of choices are very free. I understand that you do not think it is desirable, but that does not mean that schools should not choose it. We are not involved and I do not see any role there for the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u134	Very good. This afternoon it is also teacher inspiration afternoon, but before I suspend, there is still a question from Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u135	Of course, I do not want to use expensive interrupting time for this, because I will need it for the other minister, but my colleague Harry van der Molen has asked a question about students with educational qualifications who have little demand for a second study. Can the Minister comment on that for a moment? We haven't had an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u136	You received that reply in writing. These are teachers who have an educational competence, but want to receive training to become competent in another subject. That was the question. We answered that question, too. There are already many facilities for this. For example, the scheme for side-intromers can be used for this purpose. The teacher grant can also be used for this purpose. So there are amenities that I find really an easier and more convenient route than the route proposed by Mr Van der Molen. I wanted to point out that this is a valid point, but that facilities are already available for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u137	Very good. Finally, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u138	I would like to use this interruption to respond to the first and second interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u139	It's all possible. Don't hold back!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As regards the first, it is of course very disappointing that there is an inventory going on that is important, but the Minister cannot indicate how long it will take. The fact that the Minister dismisses an obvious educational activity at Shell as a choice of his own, while it disseminates information that is not demonstrably helpful in what children need to learn, the fact that the Minister is wrongly saying that the education inspection has nothing to do with it, is simply unwilling. I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u141	It's a free choice. No one is obliged to go there. It's always a free choice. It's a beautiful country, I hear someone say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u142	Beautiful closing words. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u143	I'm suspending until 1:10 p.m. Then we have the arrangement of work, after which we are going to listen to Mr Slob.
