ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is a 30-member debate on the rapid rise in sea levels. Before I give you the floor, I would like to point out that we are on a rather tight schedule. I am therefore going to appeal to your concise wording. Max two interruptions, which we are going to be very brief, I would suggest. You have three minutes' speaking time. First of all, Mr Sienot of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Delta Works would protect us from rising sea water for 200 years. Since my 10th year I have been deeply impressed by this technical highlight. Not just me: in 2013, the Delta Works were declared the most prestigious water engineering project in the world. But now it turns out they might be protecting us for a lot less time. According to new climate studies, sea levels can rise by more than a metre at the end of this century. D66 wants us to test our policies against the latest climate scenarios, if only because no less than two thirds of our national assets are in flood-proof areas. D66 therefore wants to know quickly from the Minister the consequences of recent climate scenarios for our climate adaptation policy. Is the Minister prepared to carry out such an investigation? Maybe one's already running? If we know this quickly, we can still prepare for it. The Netherlands has always been good at this: climate change is a step in the right direction. That's one of our best export products. Mr. Chairman. We often talk about the Paris climate targets related to mitigation, i.e. CO reduction. That's half the story. The other half is about adaptiveness: preparing your country for the consequences of climate change. Minister Wiebes is currently working hard with the polder on long-term mitigation planning to stay within 2°C warming and aim for 1.5°C. Each scenario has consequences for the rise in sea level and thus for our dry feet. They are, as it were, communicating vessels. D66 therefore proposes to bring the climate adaptation and mitigation policies really into line; to work here with the Paris Agreement horizon and with prospects for 2030 and 2050. This is how we really make our country "Parisproof." Does the Minister agree with D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u3	Mrs. Van Tongeren has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u4	I follow the speech of my colleague from D66, of course, and I agree with most of it, but does he not think that the efforts of our Delta Commissioner and the necessary resources in the Delta Fund are sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u5	That is a very understandable question. I would like to say that a great deal is happening in the Delta programme. That is very good and we welcome it. However, the question is whether it is enough if you look at the latest insights. Right now, I don't know. That is why I would say: first of all, let us make sure that we know to what extent climate effects have an impact and should have an impact on our adaptation strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u6	Isn't D66, like GroenLinks, at least concerned that there is not enough money in the Delta Fund to maintain the current protection? D66 is now concerned because the sea level will rise even more. GroenLinks is concerned that there is not enough money for maintenance already. So I'm assuming D66 also thinks there should be more resources to maintain our current protection against sea level rising. You can also see in the work of our Delta Commissioner that we are not getting out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u7	We believe that there are signs that sea levels are rising faster and that climate change is going faster. We take these signals very seriously. The Delta Commissioner also regularly reports, for example, that there are more peak showers than previously expected. In view of this, we say: okay, if that happens, what impact does it have on the current adaptation strategy and what does it have on policy? I think it is too early to say that there is a shortage there and there, and that is why we need to go ahead. I just want to hear that very clearly from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u8	Mr Sienot says something very important, namely that adaptation is important, but mitigation is also super important, because what you do prevent, you don't have to heal, just to sum it up for a moment. There are also a lot of reports that say that the growth of aviation does not contribute in any way to achieving the CO targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u9	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u10	Does Mr Sienot agree with the Animal Party that a shrinkage in aviation contributes to mitigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u11	Yeah, look, that's not the point. There's a lot of debate about that in this house. I understand that it is said that mitigation should be taken seriously and that every source should be taken into account. Of course, but to have a debate here about flying while we are talking about rising sea level and I would like to ask the Minister to make good policy for adaptation, appropriate to the new insights, that goes too far for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u12	Mr Van Raan, I have to tell you that this question also seems to me to be something outside the subject of this debate. Shortly, the second part of your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u13	It's about rising sea levels and D66 is talking about mitigation itself. I would also like to mention another branch of sport: livestock farming. Shrink of livestock would also contribute to CO reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u14	Well, I'm not talking about mitigation, but about mitigation as an equal of adaptation, as the main topic of this debate and for my party also the focus of this conversation. Fortunately, we have the greenest coalition agreement ever. As a result, we talk very often in this house about where the cabinet's CO reduction plans lead and whether it should be enough or more. Should we look at other sources? It is quite right that this should come on the table here. For a reason, we have the greenest coalition agreement ever. At the same time, I say: even if we stopped flying now, if we stopped all coal plants, if we stopped eating meat, then the climate will change for the coming decades, simply because of the CO emissions we have already made, so adaptation also deserves a place at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u15	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u16	Mr. Chairman. We also have to work behind the dikes, but many municipalities do not yet work on the climate stress test. In addition, the round table on climate adaptation, which took place at the initiative of D66, showed that small and medium-sized municipalities have too little knowledge to proceed with the results of the climate stress test. What intrigued me was the idea of living labs. Is the Minister familiar with this concept? Does she agree with D66 that learning by doing this new matter is really necessary? In addition to a climate stress test, D66 also envisages drawing up an action plan for municipalities, with opportunities for climate adaptation. Municipalities can then quickly get started with the results of the climate stress test. We would like to help them to come to those plans easily. I'm rounding up. Last week, the inland waterway sector signed the Declaration of Nijmegen together with the Minister. We're taking everything out of the closet to reduce CO emissions. We like this climate spirit, not only when it comes to mitigation but also when it comes to adaptation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u17	Mrs. Van Tongeren, this is your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u18	Mr. Chairman. We have the rule with our group that you should not table an uncovered motion, but perhaps the government parties should not ask for an open debate either. There is currently a deficit of 475 million in the Infrastructure Fund. That's for the current level of adaptation. You ask to see if there may be any further adaptation, but you do not indicate where the corresponding resources should come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u19	I would point out that I would like to know to what extent current insights have an impact on our climate adaptation policy. That's one. Secondly, I ask the Minister whether she agrees with us that this is necessary. Whether it is then necessary to have a policy with the question of how much it is needed and what costs it will cost, and then the question of how to get that money or perhaps even how to do things more efficiently so that it costs less money is step two for me. It starts with that first insight and that first question, and I asked it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u20	I think it is necessary to finance the late maintenance first. That didn't happen because of this government. Then you can see if there's anything else you need to do. Because I think D66 and GroenLinks agree that the chance that less dike increase is needed, that less should happen in Zeeland, is zero. It is therefore going to cost more money, while the current plans are already impossible to finance. It is then right, for example, to make extra money available in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u21	I always have the feeling that Mrs Van Tongeren wants to skip a phase. That is the stage that I very much cherish, namely the stage of the Minister's answers, in which she clarifies what is needed, why it is necessary and how we can do it. I would like to leave it at that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u22	There is another question from Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u23	I would like to return to the point made by my colleague from D66 concerning the agreement concluded with inland waterway transport. Is my colleague sure that the whole of inland waterway transport is in favour of this agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u24	That's a very interesting question. Each agreement shall be concluded with the sector. For each agreement there are probably also people, in this case skippers, or entrepreneurs in any field, who may be less enthusiastic about it. We are dealing here with an agreement that many people in the sector, many entrepreneurs, have signed with soul and salvation. That's what I'm assuming, and that's where I'm heading. You're asking for the exceptions. I don't want to rule out that there are, but I think this is less relevant. It is relevant that the agreement is there and that the sector wants to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u25	Maybe it's my question, but I wanted to ask you this. Does my colleague from D66 agree with me that not all the people of inland waterway transport have been sitting at the table at all? Okay, there may be an agreement that not everyone agrees with. But what does my colleague think about the fact that not all the parties to this agreement at all have been at the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u26	I think that is somewhat understandable, bearing in mind that there are, in my view, 8,700 inland waterway vessels. I think it's very difficult to get them all at the table. For practical reasons, we invite interest groups to speak on behalf of the parties. That's how we've been doing it in this country for a long time. They're sitting there at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u27	Perfect. Then it is clear that the ASV is not taken seriously by D66 as a serious party at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u28	I'll build on what my colleague from the PVV says. I hear Mr Sienot saying that entrepreneurs have been sitting at the table. But do D66, Mr Sienot, not forget that a great many inland waterway vessels, such as those who are members of the ASV, are also entrepreneurs and that they cannot miss that battle for sustainability and greening in inland waterway transport? They must make that battle, and they are already saying that they cannot pay and pay for that greening. What's D66's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u29	I don't think we're in the AO Maritime. These seem to me to be very legitimate questions at the AO Maritime. But alla, I gave a compliment to the Minister for the agreement, so I will at least say what I think now. I know that D66 has recently tabled a motion to give three important cases to the green deal. Those are the next ones. One, come up with a fund. Two: make sure to measure the pipe, so that the skippers can show that they often sail much greener than we think. And three: certification. It is therefore very important for investors and shippers to opt for ships that are clearly greener. I believe that all of this brings together important directives to ensure that the greening process, as it will take place in the green deal for inland waterway transport, takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u30	Mr Sienot cites the Declaration of Nijmegen himself, so we are responding. I find it very brief to say that this is not the AO Maritime. The inland waterway vessels did not sit at the table and feel unheard of in this closed chord. Do we think it is a good agreement and do we think that inland waterway transport should be made more sustainable? Of course. An agreement has just been reached internationally by 173 countries, and we are very pleased with that. But the entrepreneurs who regulate inland waterway transport in the Netherlands must also be taken into account. It should be possible for them to do this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u31	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u32	What does the D66 Group think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u33	The D66 Group finds the following. We are talking about climate adaptation and the rise in sea level. These matters are also important for inland waterway vessels. Climate adaptation has major consequences in the area of rivers: on the one hand on the degree of dry lying and on the other hand on sometimes too wild rivers through too much water. So on all sides climate adaptation affects the new reality that skippers will face. With such an agreement, we are taking steps in the area of mitigation, and I would like us to do the same in the area of adaptation. In that light, I have quoted it, and I would like to leave it at that for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u34	Thank you. I call Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A sea level rise of 1.8 meters at the end of this century, while our national showpiece, the Delta Works, is calculated at 40 centimeters. What does our country look like? I would like to address myself specifically to the VVD, because it always talks about a level playing field. Well, I can tell you that our country will look like one big level playing field: all water! Mr. Chairman. In the EenVandaag reportage we saw Professor Renske de Winter of the University of Utrecht once again stress that it is a lot easier to avoid the rise in sea level than to adapt to this. For this, we really need to work with CO reduction. How big is the contrast with the approach of this cabinet? The cabinet says that we have a commitment to support and cost-efficiency, and we are going to postpone measures until after the parliamentary term of this cabinet. It's gotta be fun. The shift policy of this cabinet is now being implemented to the sectoral tables. Last week, we heard Mr Nijpels say from his position as chairman of the Climate Change Council that a climate agreement without support is a stillborn child. During the briefing, I asked him what room there would be and what space would be built in in case interim insights were required to intervene, or to tighten up the targets............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He said at that time: first we can achieve the goal of 49% reduction by 2030, and then we will see the rest. And that from the mouth of the climate agreement leader! I'd like a response from this minister. This minister, or at least her successor, has to contend with the consequences of this policy. There is a possible quadruple increase in sea level compared to the principles of the design of the Delta Works. Does this mean that we are going to have a fourfold increase in costs? So EUR 80 billion instead of EUR 20 billion for the next 30 years in the context of climate adaptation? It is actually a bit worse, because this cabinet is not only moving forward, it is even undertaking activities that will lead to a further increase. Not mitigation, but acceleration, it seems. I refer to the trade mission to China, in which the Minister of LNV succeeded in bringing Dutch veal to the Chinese market. I mention the plea during this trade mission for more KLM flights between China and Schiphol. Does the Minister share our view that this is completely contrary to the measures we need to take? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u36	Thank you. I call Mr Laçin. Mr Van Dijk is absent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to water quality, water safety and our Deltaworks, we are at the forefront. Above all, we must keep it that way. It is therefore a good thing that we have had a Delta Commissioner since 2010 and that we are not only acting if it is necessary, for example, because of a disaster, but that we are also looking ahead and responding to future developments. These global developments can have a major impact on our country, according to the broadcast of EenVandaag on 31 January this year. Climate change and a faster rise in sea level may require us to adjust our plans. Studies by the KNMI and the University of Utrecht show that we have to take into account an increase in sea level of 1.80 meters instead of the original 85 centimeters. A big difference has arisen because we can now count on models in which the ice caps of Greenland and Antarctica are incorporated. Is the Minister familiar with these new studies, and what steps has she taken to respond to these new insights? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In order to prevent a faster rise in sea level, we need to focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We're working on that. The Paris Agreement is leading. Last week 173 countries agreed that greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping should be halved by 2050 compared to 2008. A good step, but far from enough, supports several European politicians. The Declaration of Nijmegen, which we have just discussed, is also a good step. Only an important link is missing: the inland waterway vessels. We will talk to the Minister about this during the AO Maritime. The aviation sector is also a major polluter, thereby contributing to climate change. Negotiations are under way within the aviation sector to make international agreements on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We were able to put forward additional questions on this yesterday. We are curious about the Minister's answers to that. Although the total CO emissions of Dutch industry decreased last year, aviation shows a huge increase. How does the Minister feel about this? How does it reconcile the continuing drive of aviation to continue to grow with international commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions? Innovation lags behind growth in aviation, so according to the SP the mantra "we fly cleaner and quieter" is an illusion. Does the Minister agree with us that further growth in aviation is undesirable, as it becomes clear that aviation emissions are growing and that short-term innovation offers little perspective? Then my final question to the Minister, Mr. Chairman. Can it share with the Court the consequences of the Paris Agreement and the international maritime and aviation agreements on the rise in sea levels? A concrete translation of these agreements is necessary, so that we can better assess in the Netherlands what measures we need to take to keep our country dry and strengthen our quays in good time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u38	There is another question from Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u39	I am listening with some surprise and that is because it is mainly about mitigation, so CO reduction. It's very important, but the other side of the coin is adaptation. I am so curious how the SP will look at the consequences of climate change that we really need to do something about. How does the SP feel that sea level seems to rise so quickly and how should we react to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u40	I think I gave an answer to that at the beginning of my speech. Both are important to us, as well as forward-looking adaptation and mitigation in order to reduce the existing one now. Both have been incorporated in my speech. We believe that adaptation and mitigation should go hand in hand, as D66 has just said. So in that sense I don't understand the surprise of D66 in this. In previous debates, we have indicated that we support the Delta Commissioner, that we must work forward-lookingly and that we must take forward-looking measures on climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u41	So, if I understand correctly, does the SP agree with us that we should make "Parisproof" not only on mitigation but also on adaptation in the Netherlands, and that we should bring these policies into line with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u42	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u43	Thank you. I call Mr Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u44	Mr. Chairman. Debates on the rise in sea level are characterised by a wide range of futures. According to the CDA, a good debate will have to be based mainly on facts. If you are looking for information, you will find yourself at the United Nations Climate Panel, at the KNMI or at scientists who indicate that the KNMI scenarios will not come true. Mr. Chairman. The Delta Commission also has its own assumption for the rise in sea level. It is significantly different from the highest KNMI scenario. That is because the Delta Committee is based on the upper limit and not on bandwidths. Did these facts lead to the conclusion that we see a serious problem coming? On the one hand, because on the basis of the Delta Committee and the KNMI scenarios, the Delta Works have been designed on a sea level rise which now seems to be far too low. On the other hand, it was not, because the programme on which Mr Sienot requested this 30-member debate also addressed the Delta Commissioner, Mr Kuijken, and he believes that our current policy is sufficient until 2050. So all the dikes and waterworks are up to that time on a sufficient level and in 32 years, in the year 2050 will prove who is right. Until then, do we have to sit with our arms all over each other and watch how the flag hangs? No. The CDA wants us to keep an eye on the possible developments. Let me give you two examples. Specifically for the Netherlands, we are also dealing with a bottom descent. By the sound of the peat soil the peat soil breaks down as it were. A possible solution is further narrowing of the peat bogs, which can reduce both soil decline and CO emissions. What opportunities does the Minister see here? Then there is the second point. Engineer Spaargaren has designed a plan to close the Nieuwe Waterweg with locks. If we zoom in on the plan, it will have great positive consequences. Thus, the salinisation of the hinterland is countered and it would ensure robust safety. I have raised this before, and the Minister said that this will only be dealt with when the replacement of the Maeslant barrier is also at issue. At that time, the minister's predecessor also said that "the pulse is constantly being kept on track in terms of new insights so that, if necessary, these reflections can be started earlier." That is why my question: does the conclusion that sea levels are rising or rising faster also lead to the understanding that we should think about closing the New Waterway? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u45	Thank you. Mr Dijkstra of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u46	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a water rich country. We have a beautiful coastline, we have rivers, big rivers, and we have polder landscapes; we enjoy them every day. The Netherlands, no matter how densely populated we are, is largely below sea level. So we have always had to deal with the threat of rising water. In the Netherlands you must be able to live and work safely. So we have to keep protecting ourselves from the water. The most important condition for our country is that we keep dry feet and have as little water pollution as possible. That is why we need to ensure proper flood protection. This means investing permanently in our dikes, dunes and quays. The Delta programme is leading in the coming years. As a VVD, we want the Delta Fund to continue with money for investments in water safety and we want to extend it beyond 2030. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions. In the reportage of EenVandaag, which gave rise to this debate, people from Utrecht University and from the KNMI were cited. I know the KNMI is the institute that delivers to the IPCC, but why is there such a big difference between those figures? We start with 35 centimeters at the KNMI, but it goes up to 1.80 meters at Utrecht University. My second question is this. For the protection of the Netherlands, we must also look at our neighbouring countries: for the rivers to Germany and Belgium, but perhaps also to Flanders for the seawater. What are they doing about protection in the direction of Zeeland-Flanders? What are the effects of a change in groundwater levels for, for example, households in South Holland? What are the effects of an increase in sea level when it comes to salinisation of agricultural areas? What does the sea level rise, if there is, for our islands overseas, Bonaire, Eustatius and Saba? Those are the questions I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u47	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fate of the Netherlands is inextricably linked to the water. For all our lives, we've been fighting the water. We know that all too well. We are the frontrunner in the field of water management and internationally everyone uses our expertise in the field of high-water protection. So let's keep doing what we're good at. We monitor the sea level and adjust our Deltaworks whenever necessary. Starting a year earlier or later doesn't make much difference. This is a matter of decades. Measuring is knowing. Rijkswaterstaat must take action as soon as the situation so requires. Mr. Chairman. It is very likely that sea levels will be used to put pressure on citizens. It is suggested that we will soon have to live on a houseboat, because we are not now deep enough to finance the climate agreement. This scaremongering has to stop. The stress that people are being talked into is many times more harmful than the slight rise in sea level. What's really going on? Let's start with the facts. The sea level can rise in two ways: firstly, the sea water can heat and expand and secondly, land ice can melt. Contrary to what is often thought, the entire North Pole is allowed to melt in terms of sea level. According to Archimedes' law, this floating sea ice will not matter for the volume of water and sea level. There's land ice on the South Pole. That calves off at some places and in other places it grows right. The PVV notes that sea levels have increased on average only 2 millimeters a year over the last century. So we are talking about a very gradual process. The title of the debate is therefore misleading. It's bullshit to talk about a rapid rise. We won't wake up one morning in a flooded land. Even the IPCC is not really talking about a maximum increase of 3 millimeters a year. Let's stop this scaremongering and confine ourselves to the facts. Mr. Chairman. Large-scale, premature investments are a waste of our taxpayers' money. We should not just spend billions to throw away our Delta works, while there is no need to do so and we do not even know whether the increase will continue, stop or even turn to a drop. For all these reasons, we keep a close eye on developments and keep our hands on the cut. Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are playing Panic Soccer alone in Enschede, where FC Twente really wants to play the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u49	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very sensible that our government pursues both climate adaptation and climate mitigation policies. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, a little more than a little more needs to be done on both subjects. Today it is specifically about how we ensure that we keep dry feet in the Netherlands. It's just been mentioned for a while. Should we think of finishing the Delta Works completely, with the Nieuwe Waterweg and also in the Westerschelde a form of a barrier? How does the Minister view this? I think the budget for the Delta Fund is a point. We can say that the expectations are even more serious and that we might have to go further, but that means that we should not only have money for the current plans and for maintenance, but that investment should also be made for these new more far-reaching plans and then maintenance should also be carried out. I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion. How should we do that with a further rising sea level? One of the problems that recently appeared in the news had to do with pits and sandy roads at the current quay. This would be due, among other things, to knowledge erosion in the Ministry. For a while there was the idea in the Ministry that you can hire a lot on the market, that you really only need some kind of process directors. At some point we discovered that a more specific and up-to-date knowledge of this type of infrastructure is needed in the ministries. That's very important. We have discovered that this also applies to bridges. I ask the Minister if there is sufficient knowledge there. Would she like to have some more knowledge at her disposal? Does she have any idea about the level of knowledge of the waterboards? The water, of course, comes to us from all sides. So is the Wadden Sea. There are alarming reports about the Wadden Sea, that sometime this century at low tide it won't get above the water. How does the Minister view this? What about the sinking of the bottom in the Wadden Sea? Is the Minister prepared to look into this in the further sea level rise? Mr. Chairman. My last question is about inkling in weak soil. Not only does the water rise and we get more salt torment under our dikes, our soil in the Netherlands sinks in all kinds of places quite quickly. Whoever drives over the A4 knows that. He thinks, "What are those weird bumps in the way?" Well, that's ink and bottom descent. We will have to do something about that too. How does the Minister view the involvement of ink-linking in weak soil in the Delta Commissioner's programme? I agree with the question on the Antilles. I don't know who asked, but I thought that was a very fair question. We not only have a part in our Kingdom here in the Netherlands, we also have a Caribbean part. There, too, sea level rises. Think of Willemstad on Curaçao. There you can have a little bit and then it runs over the quays. Is that in the Delta Commissioner's plans? How does this minister deal with that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u51	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me say in advance that, as far as the cabinet is concerned, climate mitigation and adaptation must, of course, go hand in hand. Mr Wiebes is mainly concerned with the mitigation aspects at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate. For practical reasons, we have mainly moved adaptation to our ministry, because adaptation is 90% water-related and I go over water. There are a wide range of studies on climate change and also on the part of the climate problem related to the rise in sea level. In the Netherlands, the KNMI is the organisation that is constantly conducting the most research into this and also participates in the IPCC Committee under the United Nations. The KNMI has been working on the follow-up since 2017. The Delta programme for 2019 will, of course, give a glimpse at the image that is then there of all the research that is being done on it, because it is constantly moving. I can tell you that in the time when I was a student of social geography I had to take an exam in climatology, there were very different things in the books than these days. That will always be the case, because new research is constantly being carried out. We've just seen the research into the sediments at the bottom of the ocean, from how the sand grains have been worn out differently to the melting of the polar caps. New research is constantly being carried out. What we are doing and what the KNMI is doing is constantly following all these developments and all these different scenarios. There is not one institution or one scientist who can claim to know exactly what it is going to be, but of course it is important to be on top of that and keep up with all developments. The IPCC itself will come up with new insights in 2018 and 2019. The KNMI processes it. In 2021, this will lead to new climate scenarios. So there are still a lot of research coming up on us in the coming years. The most important thing in this respect is that we continue to monitor developments. Of course, we will take you with us. If we do not do this ourselves, it is through the Delta Commissioner, whom many of you have mentioned, that we can all find in the Delta programme. I have already answered Mr Sienot's question as to whether climate adaptation and mitigation are compatible. Mitigation is mainly about achieving CO reduction. Of course, you'll have to do as much as you can. The effort is also very focused on this, but at the same time you are absolutely right with your pronunciation "better safe than sorry." In the meantime, when we see climate change and sea level rise, we must make sure that we are prepared for this. This also applies to the changes in the form of extreme weather, large showers and heat stress. These are all parts of the stress tests on adaptation. It is important that we make a strong commitment to this too. In that sense, you're right that it goes hand in hand. Both policy areas need to be fully deployed in order to achieve the best results. In the field of adaptation, of which I may be the proud tractor, we also have something extra to show the world. We do have the Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation in Rotterdam and Groningen. So we have an expensive duty to show in the rest of the world that we are doing our best here. In certain parts of the world, the consequences of rising sea levels are even more acute than with us. Luckily, we've been able to see that we've got the place under control until 2050. In the Delta programme, the Delta Commissioner also indicated this. One of the members mentioned this earlier. I'm only gonna stop my line once...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u54	Mr Van Raan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u55	... because otherwise Mr Van Raan will never be able to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u56	We certainly shouldn't have that. It is logical that we have at least a center of excellence, because the western lifestyle is also the cause of the big problems elsewhere. So it's not so weird that we're doing our best here to prevent that. But that's not what my question is about. My question is about what the Minister has just said: there is not one scientist who knows what it will be like and we will keep an eye on the reports. That's a little too easy. Of course, there's not one scientist who knows exactly what's going on. And of course you're gonna keep an eye on it. But would the Minister give a reflection on the main thrust of these reports? 'Cause I'm really not getting that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u57	Then I didn't make that clear. By saying that we are following these reports, of course, I did not mean that we only read them and then do nothing. If there is a trend that means that you have to take serious account of the fact that things are going faster or that they are getting worse in the long term, then we will of course have to adapt to that. On the contrary, I believe that we have a good system for this in the Netherlands, with the Delta programme, the Delta Commissioner and the KNMI, which advises well on this, so that we can always take the right steps in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u58	The Minister says, if that's what those reports say. It still leaves the possibility that it would not turn out to be. In our view, that is not the case. Does the Minister agree that it is not "if," but that it is really in those reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u59	We agree that there is a sea level rise. However, scientists do not yet agree on the long-term increases. There are worst case scenarios. You will take that into account, but you will of course focus on the scenario that is most likely to occur in the implementation. At least you have to be prepared for that. Of course, you cannot base everything all of a sudden on one report that reflects a very extreme scenario. There must be a good weighting in that. That's already happening at the KNMI. This also happens internationally at the UN, of course, by the IPCC. A weighted result shall be recorded. I'm just gonna keep talking. Then we can have a little more discussion there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u60	Mr. Van Raan, the Minister is trying to answer the question you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u61	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I need to listen better. I'm gonna look back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u62	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u63	Mr Sienot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u64	It is very good to hear that also for the cabinet, mitigation and adaptation go hand in hand. At the same time, we see some differences. On the one hand, we can see that there is feverish consultation. There is polder consultation at all kinds of tables about the question: what do these scenarios mean and what does it mean for our policies? On the other hand, in the field of adaptation, the programme is being renewed every six years. That sort of goes on, while perhaps there are really big choices ahead, because there seem to be fundamentally new insights. That's how we dance around a little bit. This is what we're talking about. Let's take both sides seriously. On the one hand there is the CO reduction and on the other hand there are the policy choices for adaptation and everything that comes with it. Let us put that right, including from the long-term perspective 2030-2050. How can we organize that better? That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u65	I don't share the image we're dancing around. I'm just giving you the example of the Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation. I believe that this is why we, as the Netherlands, really need to show something. The Union of Water Councils, the water authorities themselves and municipalities are all working to achieve the stress tests. You yourself referred to the fact that in some cases they could still use some help and support. That's what we're looking at, so not every church or every waterboard has its own... I wanted to say "have to lay its own egg," but the good expression is "re-invent the wheel." So it is being worked very hard to achieve that. The Union of Water Councils has explicitly insisted that the intergovernmental programme agreed on climate adaptation plays a very important role. Several other speakers have asked about the problem of soil decline. With LTO and the waterboards this has already been explicitly looked at. What exactly can you do in those peat meadow areas with machining? In doing so, you can contribute to adaptation and, by reducing the carbon dioxide emissions of wet peat, to the mitigation policy. So there are all kinds of initiatives in all kinds of sectors. Maybe we should bring it to the fore, but I have absolutely no feeling of dancing around anything. Everyone's busy with that dance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u66	Mr. Sienot, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u67	Thank you, Madam President, for this opportunity. Let me give a concrete example right away. The document of the National Climate Adaptation Strategy is subtitled: implementation programme. It then contains words such as "dialogue," "knowledge deepening" and "closer research." That is the action that is being taken. It is that insight in combination with a six-year programme, unlike tables where really heavy agreements are made before 2030 and 2050, which makes me feel that we might be able to communicate that dance a little better, but that we might actually need to do a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u68	I think it's really in the language then. What happens at the mitigation tables may have a higher level of abstraction than at the adaptation. When it comes to the implementation programme, you must first have done that stress test to know exactly what you can take as the best measure in which municipality or waterboard. I think Mr Sienot might be a little too concerned. In practice, much more is already happening than he might see under the heading 'implementation programme'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u69	Mr Dijkstra also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u70	When we talk about the Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation... We were allowed to be there in Bonn when the Netherlands was assigned, which was very honorable. It's been going on for a while now. Can you tell us more about the progress that has been made there? What could we, the House of Representatives, do to strengthen that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u71	We're busy giving it more body internationally. If we only keep doing it if the Netherlands, it will not be a global centre, but then it is mainly a Dutch centre. In Bonn, you saw the first beginning of it. A number of countries, including Japan and the Philippines, have co-signed it. I've lost the exact number a bit, but now we have more than 40 countries who want to join us. We are working to see if we can involve a global commission of appealing leaders from the rest of the world to give this real impact. We're working hard on that. I think I can say more about this in the autumn and will inform the Chamber about it. Mr Sienot has asked if I am familiar with the living labs. Yeah, we're familiar with that. In the incentive programme to get this policy off the table, there are opportunities to support those living labs as well. We facilitate knowledge sharing and contribute to the development of new knowledge. We really try to support municipalities and water boards. That concludes Mr Sienot's block. I see him getting up...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u72	I give the floor to Mr Sienot to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u73	Maybe the minister and I are gonna find each other here. Very good to hear that there is a lot going on around the living labs. That's encouraging. Two things emerged from the round table on climate adaptation. On the one hand, the small and medium-sized municipalities have a lack of knowledge: what are we to do with these results and how can we proceed quickly? On the other hand, those living labs turned out to be a nice way to spread that knowledge quickly. Doing so one learns. That raised the question for us, and that idea also came from the round table, whether it is possible to combine these two, i.e. to have a programme of a climate stress test on the one hand, and, on the other hand, quickly, through living labs, in regions, to ensure that municipalities can get to work quickly. In other areas, such as sustainable shopping, we often see this go wrong. So my question is: can the Minister see for himself that we are expanding this programme, these stress tests, so that we can help the municipalities better?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u74	I think that, among other things, through the Water Management Agreement, we are already very explicitly looking at how to better disseminate and share all types of measures and approaches in the context of adaptation issues. Living labs is an excellent example. I would also like to raise it there. The Water Management Agreement also includes the municipalities and the provinces and the drinking water companies. If we have that issue with each other, I think everyone is well hooked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u75	Is the Minister then prepared to inform us in a subsequent letter, for example in the run-up to the AO Water, how to help municipalities quickly and adequately translate the results of the stress test into policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u76	Of course, I am willing to report on living labs and other tools, instruments that you can use, but I think it is a little limited to do it only with regard to municipalities. I would simply like to inform you in a broad sense, in the run-up to the AO Water, about this, including where the waterboards and the provinces are concerned, because provinces also have specific projects. I'll just mention something: Limburg with the stream restoration. I would also like to keep the provinces in mind and not just focus on the municipalities. Then Mr Van Raan asked whether a quadrupling of sea level increases could also bring with it a quadrupling of costs and how we take them into account. Then I'll actually come back to what I said at the beginning of this story. Of course we're on top of it. If there are really serious developments that will ensure that more money is needed for the measures, we will, of course, report that to your Chamber. I'll definitely ask for that if that's what it takes. The questions about China are all about mitigation. For that I would like to refer to Mr Wiebes. Then I come to Mr Laçin. He asks: are you familiar with the new studies and what steps can be taken? I have already outlined at the beginning that both the KNMI and IPCC will also launch new investigations in the coming years. The Delta programme will also always be adapted to state-of-the-art knowledge. We'll be sure to let you know about that. As far as aviation is concerned, I propose that we continue this discussion in general aviation consultations. You have also had a technical briefing on CORSIA and so on. That is a little out of the reach of this debate. The same applies to the points reported in relation to maritime transport. I think we should at least be pleased that an important step has been taken in the international context, in the International Maritime Organisation, to reach common goals. The Declaration of Nijmegen is not perfect. We also really continue our own approach to a green deal. There is still a great deal to be done, but I am pleased with this step in itself, because at least there are a number of signatures from important parties, all of whom are keen to continue their work. So I know it's not all, but at least it's a nice step. Mr Geurts specifically asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u77	Before proceeding, Mr Laçin has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u78	During the AO on aviation, we will certainly discuss it further. However, the international agreements have already been concluded, the Paris Agreement and the shipping agreement, and the aviation agreement still needs to take shape and have a direct impact on climate change. Achieving the goals we set has also directly to do with the rise in sea level. That is why my final question to the Minister: can you give concrete expression to what could be the result of achieving or failing to achieve the objectives of those agreements for the rise in sea level? That is, I think, a very specific question for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u79	The good thing is that the IPCC operates under the flag of the United Nations and meets both the ICAO and the maritime side at UN level. So I think that the IPCC is the international organisation that can assess, using all these stacked approaches, what steps can be taken there, to what extent this can contribute to sufficient CO reduction and what impact that can have on the climate aspect of sea level rise. So that's exactly where all that knowledge comes together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u80	That's right. Only when it comes to the consequences for the Netherlands, we have to decide in this Chamber what steps we are taking, with the Delta Commissioner and with the knowledge we have. Hence again the question of whether the Minister is prepared to explain the consequences for the Netherlands and what measures we should take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u81	This is what we do every year when we update the Delta programme. Of course, the Delta Commissioner is constantly working on this. If you mean it in those general terms, I'd be happy to admit it. Of course, I cannot go through the story of Nijmegen specifically now, because it has yet to be established at what time it will all be carried out. You can't calculate that exactly as one-on-one, but we will certainly take the general trend with us. Mr Geurts also asked about the decline in soil and what opportunities the Minister sees to counter it. I just said something about that. In particular, with regard to peat meadow areas, together with the agricultural sector and the waterboards, we see opportunities to make significant success both in terms of mitigation, i.e. less CO emissions, and in terms of climate adaptation. In the same good consultation, so with the water boards and the sector, with Mr Carola Schouten of LNV, we are also looking at this together. I think there are very good plans there. I can tell you that we also have a climate envelope, from which we are specifically trying to get projects that are aimed at climate adaptation. I hope that you agree with me that that hand should go hand in hand, so that we should not only pay for mitigation measures from that envelope but also for adaptation. Because then, for example, there would be a good opportunity for those peat meadow areas. In addition, of course, this could also be done from the regional envelope. I believe that very good projects are being submitted or have already been submitted for this purpose. And of course we have agreed, as I say in the direction of Mr Geurts, in the intergovernmental programme with the co-governments, to draw up bogey visions together, to really map out how we stand in the Netherlands and where we need action. You also asked about Mr Spaargaren. Not to him; I hope he's okay, but that's something else! No, you asked about his plans to close the New Waterway with locks. I repeat my predecessor's reply, Mr Van Raan spoke of my successor, and I thought that was particularly premature at the moment. Then we should first have more insight into whether there are really more intense scenarios coming towards us and we should adjust our policies. I come to Mr Dijkstra's questions. He asked why there is so much difference between the figures of the different organizations. That is also because one scientist focuses on an extreme scenario, while the other assumes a more likely scenario. They all have their own piece that they're researching and also their own research methods. The KNMI is the basis for the Delta programme for us. They're leading our policy. New insights come to us through the KNMI and the IPCC. Mr Dijkstra also asked what they are doing in Flanders and what effect that has. Aren't we going down through Belgium as far as the Westerschelde is concerned? At the Westerschelde is not the drain through the Westerschelde but the wave setup at storm floods from the sea. Fortunately, our dikes are counting on that. In the Flemish part of the Scheldt estuary the so-called Sigmaplan is carried out. That's a kind of Flemish equivalent of our Space for the River. With this they want to realize additional water storage in the area itself. They also have a Masterplan Coast in Flanders. On this basis, the coast is strengthened to withstand a storm once every thousand years. They take into account a sea level rise of 60 centimeters per century. That'll be another 30 centimeters to 2050. There are actually very recognizable things in that plan: supplements, frame walls, a storm flood barrier and so on. Flanders and the Netherlands also coordinate these measures through the Flemish-Dutch Scheldt Committee. Mr Dijkstra has also informed Mrs Van Tongeren of this, and rightly so, because we must not forget it. Fortunately, these islands are above sea level. They're mostly volcanic. Nevertheless, effects are to be expected, but they still need to be investigated. There is still work to be done on this and we will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u82	I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment that we are going to investigate it and that she says that something needs to be done about it. Is there some kind of vague date in the planning? When will we have the results? In this case too, you will need a very long run-up to achieve, for example, an increase in the quays.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u83	Then I would like to ask Mrs Van Tongeren if she would agree that, in the run-up to the general consultation Water we have before the summer, I should like to inform the Chamber more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u85	Mr Van Aalst did not want panic football, except at FC Twente. I don't think I should say anything else about that. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked how I look at the barrier in the Westerschelde. I have just referred to the agreements that have been made with Belgium. I have already mentioned the weak soil and the stress test. Is the bottom reduction included in stress tests? This is certainly already a hot item with the water boards, but also with many municipalities where weakings play. To be honest, I assume that everything will be fine, but we will look at it carefully, so that municipalities do not neglect it. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked about the erosion of knowledge. Now, of course, erosion has a special appearance, especially in this area. I think we can say that at the Ministry, and certainly at our top institutes with our scientists, we think about the KNMI, Deltares... and, not to mention, the waterboards have sufficient knowledge. In addition, we have of course created a new access to knowledge because at the Global Centre of Excellence we really go for excellence, not only from the Netherlands, but also from the rest of the world. We now have an even easier vehicle for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u86	I think I read the story in the media that two retired males had to be used to re-establish the knowledge about the Oosterscheldebare, when, as a result of a remarkable sand erosion, they were added by Rijkswaterstaat, but did not achieve the desired result. These pensionados had to tell us how to do it. Maybe this is an occasional or possibly apocryphal story, but I still get several reports that that type of knowledge about how exactly part of our infrastructure is composed, what the state of it is and what we need to do about maintenance if anything happens, yet perhaps how do I say it nicely? A little extra welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u87	Mrs Van Tongeren has a point in her own right. Only, it is often found that artworks, especially in the Netherlands, are all unique. This means that the people who have been involved in construction or construction sometimes have unique knowledge of experience that others cannot have at all. You can't get those from young, new people or from anywhere in the world. That knowledge of those people is specifically linked to that object. We are expressly working to ensure that the people who are still there, and who remember, can transfer their knowledge. For example, when we closed the Maeslantkering, it was taken into account that a few of the older people could be present, disrespectfully said, who have been involved before. But also a new batch was present, so that the knowledge can actually be transferred. We do pay attention to that, but of course you can't turn it all back from the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u88	Large computer systems keep track of how they're assembled and how they're changing, just to deal with this problem. The previous governments have also made substantial cuts in the various departments. That it has the Minister's warm interest is clear to me, but my concern is not entirely gone, because the philosophy of steering was 'we don't have to have what we can hire commercially'. In the few examples I have been told, it is about knowledge that cannot be hired commercially. I might come up with a motion later to map it a little tighter, because our infrastructure works are of course very important for keeping our feet dry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u89	Sure. I think that we should distinguish between the specific knowledge of an object and trying to maximise the transfer of that knowledge, and the general knowledge. I think that general knowledge is sufficiently secured at the knowledge institutes and also at our home. Again, as far as the specific objects are concerned, that really has our explicit attention, not only with regard to the hardware... you know my hobby of cybersecurity............................................................................................................................................................... They must have been secured for a long time. We talk about this with all the partners in the field, not only with our own people from Rijkswaterstaat, but also with the water boards, where there is also an important part of that knowledge. Mrs Van Tongeren also specifically asked about the Wadden Sea. I can't answer the specific questions right now, but I can imagine that either in the run-up to an AO Water or a general consultation on the Wadden Sea, I don't know when that's scheduled again. There's a lot going on. There's a lot of research going on to preserve the Wadden Sea. Then I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u90	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the government's first term. It appears to me that a number of Members need a second term. Then I'll start with Mr. Sienot. You have a minute and a half to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I have certainly had the impression that the Minister also considers this to be a very important subject. That's good to hear. I have two motions to clarify the matter completely. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on the basis of the latest climate scenarios, sea levels are rising faster than expected when the Delta Works were constructed;]] [[Considers that possible differences between the assumptions underlying the Water Investment Agenda and the Delta Programme and the models used for this purpose, e.g. the KNMI, should be as small as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the impact of current climate models on sea levels, and thus on our coastal protection, and to include their results in the new Water Investment Agenda and the Delta Programme, so that it is clear what this means for the policies deployed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Paris Climate Agreement has made agreements with a horizon up to 2030 and 2050 to limit the temperature increase to at least 2°C and preferably less than 1,5°C;]] [[Whereas temperature increases have an impact on the effects of climate change both in the short and very long term;]] [[calls on the government to broaden the policy horizon in the next update of the Delta programme and the Water Investment Agenda by analogy with the Paris climate agreement, so that not only our mitigation policy but also our adaptation policy is aimed at the Paris proofing of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-168]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Today's debate is dominated by climate adaptation. Thanks to D66 for setting that up. As far as we are concerned, mitigation is also important and is at the forefront. That's why I have two motions. One is aimed at mitigation instead of acceleration, and one at adaptation. I'll read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2014, the PBL report "Small Opportunities - Large Impacts" sets out the possibilities for reducing the number of victims and combating the social disruption of floods;]] [[noting that several studies show an accelerated rise in sea level and that the rise may reach 1.8 metres by the end of this century;]] [[noting that the Delta Programme will present the first insights into the possible consequences for the Netherlands of an accelerated sea level increase;]] [[calls on the government, for example, on the basis of these studies, to map the impact of an increase in sea levels of 1.8 metres for the broad prosperity in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that scientific research shows that aviation's share of CO emissions from tourism is growing from 50% in 2005 to over 75% in 2100;]] [[points out that the expected growth of aviation means that other sectors will at least have to become climate neutral,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-170]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had asked a number of questions. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. We will certainly come back specifically to aviation and shipping during the AOs that are intended for this purpose. I have one motion. That was my last point; that is why I was just asking for it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers it important to take timely action against rising sea levels;]] [[Whereas the achievement of the climate agreements contained in the Paris Agreement and the international ship and aviation agreements has a major impact on this;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify how these agreements translate into the expected sea level rise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u95	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst waived his second term. Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u96	I'll file my motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas high-water protection of the Netherlands continues to require the attention of the government;]] [[Whereas it is essential that there is sufficient up-to-date and historical knowledge of specific infrastructure works at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the current level of expertise or knowledge erosion is satisfactory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a recent British survey shows that sea levels are rising faster than expected;]] [[Whereas the waterworks, such as the Oosterschelde barrier, have not yet been calculated on the even higher water levels;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the need for maintenance and investment to equip coastal protection at the current level;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the additional investments and maintenance needed to bring coastal protection to the new level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-173]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u98	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Or can the minister go straight through?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u99	I don't have all the motions yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u100	Then we'll just wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u101	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's no more questions open, so I'm just gonna walk away from the motions. In the motion in part No. 168, tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Geurts, is asked to examine current climate models and to include consequences in the Water Investment Agenda and the Delta programme. I consider the operative part to be reasonable, so I can simply accept this motion, if you have no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u103	Is there any objection to taking over this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u104	I object to that. This also has to do with a previous debate that we had here about a week ago and which said that we will no longer be tabling motions which are really unnecessary. I ask the proposers to withdraw these things, because they are actually superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u105	I didn't say the motion was superfluous. I have said that with this operative part I find a good assignment, with which I can live fine. I'd like to carry out that motion and take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u106	But Mr Van Aalst is opposed to this, so she will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u107	Then I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. I'm fine, too. In the motion in part No. 169 the government is invited to broaden the policy horizon when the Delta programme and the Water Investment Agenda are next updated. I really want to stress that I read it exactly as it says: policy horizon. Because if you would like to link the investment programme to that, I would have to advise against the motion, because that is what has been agreed with the Chamber. There are certain deadlines attached to this. It runs until 2032. If I read it very carefully, as you may have meant, then I can leave it to the House to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u108	I wonder what exactly is going to happen. The motion now gets "judge chamber." What will the cabinet gain as a product to the Chamber when this motion is put to the vote and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u109	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u110	As stated in the motion, we are asked to look precisely at the agreements made in the Paris climate agreement: what would the consequences be? That's what we're gonna put next, and we're gonna take that with us on the Delta program. That's how I read the assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u111	I am very pleased with the Minister's interpretation, because that is exactly what it is intended to do. We have a policy horizon to identify what is needed, what policy choices are needed to get there. Then we have to talk about this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u113	Then the opinion remains: Court judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u114	The motion in part No. 169 gets "judge chamber." The motion in part No. 170, by Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u115	That motion concerns the mapping of the extreme consequences of a sea level rise of 1.80 metres. I read the motion as follows. In the Delta programme, of course, we include the KNMI scenarios and the IPCC scenarios. If they consider this to be a relevant development, then of course we also assess those scenarios. That's how I read the motion. Then I can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u116	The motion in part No. 170 gets Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u117	Yes. The motion in part No. 171...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u118	The Minister adds: based on IPCC and KNMI. But that's not in here. If that's not in there, then there's just what it says. Then it goes a long way to give the "judge chamber" motion. But that's not my call, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u119	I ask Mr Van Raan if I can read it that way. That's how I explain the motion. Then Mr Van Raan can take into account that I am doing it this way and no other way. Then I can give 'judge chamber', but I can do so with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u120	Perhaps it is wise to ask Mr Van Raan first if he agrees with the Minister's interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u121	It's always wise to ask me first. I agree with the Minister's interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u122	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u123	I would ask Mr Van Raan to amend the motion in accordance with the Minister's words. Then it makes sense. Otherwise, interpretation and text will split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u124	Mr. Van Raan, you are being asked to amend your motion according to the Minister's interpretation. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u125	Basically, yes. Maybe the Minister can repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u126	Well, that we include these scenarios in the Delta program as the KNMI and the IPCC consider them relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u127	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u128	Yeah? Can you make a nicely revised operative part of that? Then we shall see that revised motion again. That will then be an amended motion, which will be given the Chamber's verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u129	Not now, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u130	No, you can file it later. The motion in part No. 171 also belongs to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u131	It states that the expected growth of aviation means that other sectors will have to become at least climate neutral. Actually, there's no mandate in that to the cabinet. The Chamber's making a statement. I wouldn't do it, it's my judgment, but it's up to you, because we're not being asked. So it's hard for me to give a different opinion on that. It's a bit of a special motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u132	Agreed. You don't have to judge this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u133	Then I come to the Laçin motion on item No. 172. It calls on the Government to clarify how agreements on international shipping agreements and air transport agreements affect and translate into the expected rise in sea levels. As far as I am concerned, this is superfluous, because it is already in the KNMI and IPCC's approach to take these aspects into account. If you have any specific ideas on this matter, I think they are already covered by the first motion, by Mr Sienot and Mr Geurts. But I would not like to begin by making it clear specifically and separately for these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u134	Then the motion becomes part no. 172 so actually advise against it. "Obvious" isn't really...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u135	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're right, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 173 by Mrs Van Tongeren is about knowledge erosion. It calls on the government to examine whether the current level of expertise is satisfactory. I would like to advise against this motion, because it is precisely with RWS that the approach has been changed to'market unless' in 'together with the market'. So that turn of events is already in place. Furthermore, I am convinced that we have the knowledge in order. The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 174 calls on the government to examine the need for maintenance and investment to equip coastal protection at the level of water, including in the future. Of this, I can say that we are actually already doing so, because there is a 12-year assessment. It will also be sent to your Chamber. The next one will take place in 2023. So it is simply in the system that we constantly look at what is needed in coastal protection, including in the Delta programmes, which we have every six years. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u136	The motion in part No. 174 is not recommended. I'm just gonna take a look at the members. Mr Laçin has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u137	Yeah, about my own motion. I have tried to make it clear in the debate that I am specifically concerned with the effects on sea levels and the measures we should take here in the Netherlands to achieve or not achieve the objectives of the agreements. I hear the minister say they're being taken, as I mean them, by the KNMI and the IPCC. My question is when we will receive the reports you are referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u138	You will receive it after the summer, at the new Delta programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u139	Then I'll take my motion on this. I'll see if I can put her to the vote by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u140	At the request of Mr Laçin, I propose his motion (32813), No. 172). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u141	Are there any other questions? No, I see. This brings us to the end of the second term of the government and also to the end of this 30-member debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-25.u142	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
