ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Rog, on behalf of the CDA, for his question on the report that drug criminals recruit students as couriers in Gelderish schools. This question is addressed to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, whom I also welcome. Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The future of young children in schools is shamelessly put at risk by unscrupulous drug criminals. This is evident from an article by the NIS last Saturday. According to a collaboration of Gelderish municipalities, politicians, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the tax authorities, drug criminals would be approached on a large scale to do courier jobs, and schools would look away for fear of their good name. Drug criminals would also try to infiltrate the study of chemistry and chemistry and approach students there with requests to make drug pills. The CDA is very concerned about this. Soon, thanks to this cabinet, we will have smoke-free schoolyards, but if the drug crime is rampant, we haven't made much progress. Hence a number of questions to the Minister. Does the Minister recognize these signals? And does he have an idea of how serious the problem is and how often it occurs in other provinces? We have a protocol alcohol and drugs from School & Safety. According to that protocol, this kind of criminal offence must be reported. Can the Minister indicate whether this is happening in such situations? And is he prepared to appeal to schools to comply with this protocol? Is the Minister prepared to look together with the schools, municipalities, prosecutors and police to see how schools can be helped to identify and counter infiltration of drug criminals? Finally, is the Minister prepared to make a strong commitment to his colleague from the Justice Department, Mr Grapperhaus, that part of the money allocated by the Cabinet to counter undermining, EUR 100 million, should be used to protect these students from the undermining of drug criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Rog for the questions he has asked on an issue that should indeed be our focus, especially if the chairman of a steering committee, in this case the Steering Committee Together Weerbaar van dat Gelderse co-operation, makes such public statements. As a result, from the responsibility I have for education, I contacted the School & Security Foundation, the VO Council and the inspection, and asked them if they recognize the signals that are being sent here when it comes to Gelderland-Center. Their answer was that they don't recognize them, that there are no reports of them. But we know that we have to take these kinds of signals seriously. It is also about illegal practices, so not everything is visible. It is also very good to see that the necessary action is being taken in Gelderland, in which the province is also involved. If there is a suspicion of a criminal offence alone, schools are indeed obliged, not just because of that protocol, to report it. My appeal to schools, not only in Gelderland-Center but throughout the Netherlands, is to do so. If one sees something under his eyes or hears something that smells like "that's not right, there's something wrong": report it! Each school also has a contact, a district agent. That is a very easy way to send out your signals, not only if there is a suspicion of, or perhaps even hard evidence for, committing criminal offences, but also if you just want to talk about them in a preventative sense. It is true that there was also a question from Mr Rog about the fact that there is a major action plan against undermining. Of the 100 million, 85 million are intended to reach the regional parties. So Gelderland-Center can make use of that, also for the purposes that could relate to young people. One of the components of the programme is what is called "the strengthening of the resilience of society." This includes combating recruitment, for example for drug crime. This week, the Steering Committee will be meeting with my colleague from Justice and Security. OCW will go along with that. So I would almost say that we are at the top of the issue that has come to us from Gelderland. We are doing what is possible to protect these young people from these evil practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u5	I am glad that the Minister is on top of it and that he is looking with the other ministries and the cooperation partners in the regions at how we can use money to prevent recruitment. I would very much like to ask, on behalf of the CDA, whether the other forms of crime taking place in the schoolyards, namely those of loverboys, trafficking in human beings and so on, are involved. My question now focuses on the fact that a serious appeal is being made by Mr Van Hout and that the Minister's response is, on request, that we do not recognize it, we do not see it. No, it's pretty weedy. This drug crime is, of course, under the radar. But the signals are there. I don't think we can wipe it away easily. Can the Minister really look into how big the problem is? And isn't this a reason for him to think of a national steering committee that is going to look at what's going on in the schoolyards? My final question concerns the infiltration that would also take place in studies, including in chemistry. Could the Minister respond, or his colleague Van Engelshoven? Can he indicate if we have a clear view of that? It seems to me to be extremely serious if we train students who are ultimately at the service of drug crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u6	I think it is indeed very important that, if a chairman of a steering committee such as this, a mayor, on behalf of a partnership in a certain part of the country, gives these signals, we take them seriously and see what is behind that signal. I have just indicated, from the point of view of educational responsibility, that parties working on this subject do not recognize these signals in this way. But that doesn't mean there's nothing wrong. That is why I am very pleased that, from the point of view of Justice and Security, which, as you know, is primarily responsible for this programme against undermining, direct action has been taken and that the people concerned will be consulted on how hard the signals are, how it can be that in the places where a report should be made that does not happen and what we can do to promote that if something is really going on in that area. That's what's been happening even this week. So there is a very quick response. It's, I think, certainly good to have a broader look. I know that as early as early as 2019 I will have a consultation with the Education Committee on social security, which includes this. Let me promise you that I'll report on what's going to come out of those conversations. On this basis, we can continue the debate as far as educational responsibility is concerned. But I indicated earlier that it is a much broader issue, in which more parties are also involved. That's good, because that alertness may be asked of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally? Thank you, Mr. Rog. Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u8	I have a supplementary question. Children should be able to be safe in school at any time. Schools have a responsibility to report anything happening within their walls. How often does that happen, is the Minister hopefully going to get a picture for us as part of the security monitor, but can he also provide names and numbers? I am curious to see which schools deal with the safety of our children in this way. Is it possible that the minister will deliver that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u9	It is important that schools feel the security and space to report it if there is something in their environment that they think is related, for example, to the subject of drugs or to other subjects such as trafficking in human beings. There are other things that have been mentioned that are serious and that can be faced with young people, and they come together at the schools. So these are sometimes places where such exciting situations can occur. If it turns out, but that is the conversation that we have to enter into, that schools are still experiencing too many thresholds to make these reports, then of course we have to tackle a serious issue that needs to be discussed further. I think that the whole specific situation in Gelderland-Centers, which has now come out through the media, is an opportunity to zoom in on it very closely. That is what is happening; that is what is being discussed this week. I will inform you more about this and then we will be able to continue the wide-ranging debate, with or without back numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the oral questions. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
