ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is VAO Medical specialist care/hospital care/capital costs/curative care. The AO took place on 4 April last. We have four participants on the side of the Chamber, two of whom are going to say something. The first is Mrs Ellemeet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that lifestyle interventions can contribute to reducing complaints from multiple chronic diseases including diabetes and can lead to cost savings in healthcare;]] [[noting that limited clinical medical research has been carried out into the use of lifestyle interventions, and research is an important prerequisite for medical practice;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with field parties, to set up a research agenda for lifestyle medicine which will also develop the development of lifestyle medicine through research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31016-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	We have also discussed in detail in the debate the information on the treatments that are relevant to patients. It's nice that they know where to go with questions about experiences of other patients. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees with me and what steps he intends to take to pool this information as much as possible, so that we have as little fragmentation as possible. I would like to have a final explanation from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	Very good. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have an addition to what Mrs Ellemeet has just mentioned as a subject. The CDA considers it very important that it is well known what the experiences of patients are, what the outcomes of the treatments are and on the other hand what the quality of the treatment as such is. There are now many different systems for that in the country. You could say, like, a thousand flowers blooming. We are in favour of getting a little more clarity into that. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can indicate whether he would like to take some direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. Can the Minister comment on one motion and answer the questions that have been put to him? That's the case. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to comment on the motion that has been tabled. It invites the government, in consultation with field parties, to set up a research agenda for lifestyle medicine to "develop the development of lifestyle medicine with research as well." I think all the attention to healthy life is very good, but frankly I have a bit of a problem with the concept of lifestyle medicine, because there is no such thing as lifestyle medicine. There are many possible interventions that contribute to a healthy lifestyle. This theme has been getting more and more attention lately, not only from us, but also from the research institute ZonMW, for example. This has been the subject of a Deltaplan Nutrition Research in which nutrition and health are the spearheads. That is one example of attention to nutrition and research and therefore for a healthy lifestyle. Another example is that we pay attention to effective lifestyle interventions. I'd like to mention one for adults. I think Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Van den Berg know them too. That's the focus on obesity and obesity. It's called the combined lifestyle intervention (GLI). This new preventive form of care can be purchased by health insurance companies as of January 2019, i.e. 1 January 2019, if it all goes according to schedule. They determine which proven effective GLI programs they purchase for their insured persons. And I want to monitor that again. This motion invites me to set up a research agenda for lifestyle medicine. Actually, I think that's very broad. I would like to see whether, for example, the ZonMW programme and the combined lifestyle intervention I mentioned, there are by now other proven lifestyle interventions aimed at the treatment of diseases. So where that knowledge is still missing, I want to come up with some sort of white spot plan. I want to explore where there are other possibilities. Mr. Chairman. I need a little bit of words for it, but if I can read that motion in such a way that it is about knowledge about effectiveness that is lacking and about where additional research is needed, I leave it to the Chamber. A very large, independent research agenda is, I think, a very expensive project. I wouldn't go that way. In that case, I would advise against the motion. But on this sunny day, I assume that the first interpretation is the best and then I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	I see a slight nod from Mrs Ellemeet. That's a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	I don't know. We'll see about that. One other point: the focus on patients' experiences and the question of how to pool them. In the debate we talked about healthcare cardnederland.nl, a site on which many patient experiences are bundled. That is a great site, but there are many others. Both Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Van den Berg point out this. There are so many other sites and they wonder if you should funnel this a little bit. For me, combining the experiences of patients, the reviews, saying what you think of treatment is one thing. But it is also about the availability of outcome information, for example the pain score after a treatment, where you weigh the treatment in one hospital compared to the treatment in another hospital. This information, I think, contributes to a patient's ability to make a good choice where he wants his treatment. We do not yet have enough information on the outcome. We are still studying how we can improve that outcome information. It's under the direction of the Healthcare Institute. That looks at a measurement method to get that outcome information clear, for example in case of such a problem as the pain score. That's a bit of a crazy word, but it does make it clear what it's about. I think that measurement method is a form of standardisation that suits us well. Because then you know, in the case of the pain score, from different hospitals how it is measured, using the same methodology. Then the follow-up question is: where do we make this information transparent? Do we do that at zorgkaartnederland.nl, or do we do that at cancer.nl or at zinder.nl? There are still several choices possible. Mr. Chairman. This is a work in progress for me. That method of measurement is not yet in place. I want to think about the question where we can put the most useful information. That's what I'd like to discuss with patients' associations. So if Mrs Ellemeet's question and Mrs Van den Berg's question is whether I can channel that information more, I say that we are working on it. I hope that, at least by the end of next year, we will have a practical solution to this measurement method. So it's got the attention. But to say that healthcare cardnederland.nl is the standard, I'm one step too far. However, I did not hear that from both speakers in the debate either. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you. Another question from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	Especially a comment to clarify. The Minister said that he did not yet know what Mrs Ellemeet was like with regard to his comments. I am also concerned about pragmatically starting research into lifestyle interventions, so that we have enough clinical research to be able to apply it. So I can go along with the Minister's interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	Fine, then I would have interpreted the nod correctly. The minister's done answering his question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	So much for this debate.
