ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Members for the questions on the various subjects. It might be good to start with how I thought I'd classify the answer. I shall begin with a number of general comments and the budgetary side of the economy. Secondly, I am talking about the under-exhaustment that many Members have mentioned. Thirdly, I am talking about energy and climate, including the budget reserve. Fourthly, I am talking about purchasing power, including the citizens' energy bill. As a fifth, I am talking about Europe, which has been back since last week. And as a sixth, the "other" block. So I start with general, economic and budgetary matters. A large number of Members have also referred to the good state of the economy and thus to the ever better state of government finances, and I would like to stress once again that it is a combination of three things that the cabinet aims to achieve. Firstly, very substantial investment in society, secondly, the return of money to the citizen by means of a reduction in the burden and thirdly, the further alignment of state finances. As some recalled, this means that, due to a combination of reasons, the EMU balance in 2018, according to the latest forecast, looks even better in 2018 than in the Millions Note, from 0.8% to 0.9%. The debt has also fallen a little further. However, I would like to point out that the downside risks have actually only increased, not so much in number but in terms of the downside risks to Brexit, the trade war and what is going on in and at the borders of Europe. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked whether the estimates of this morning's Planning Bureau mean that there is a change. For me, that's a matter of putting it in perspective. We have had very good growth in recent years and it still looks like the Dutch economy will continue to grow significantly next year. A number of members have already mentioned the economy that would be beyond its peak. We were still thinking about the Millions note I'm saying "we," but I'm basing myself on the Planning Bureau that the growth would be 2.6%, but it's now going to 2.2%. I base myself on the Planbureau, but also the other estimates of De Nederlandsche Bank and others show a revised picture. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten asked for an explanation of the trends in wages estimated by the CPB. According to the CPB December estimate, contract wages increase by 2% in 2018 and by 2.8% in 2019. Of course, that's good news. I'll say more about purchasing power in a moment, but that's out of my mind in the fourth block. Mrs De Vries and Mr Sneller asked what I am doing together with the SZW and VWS ministers to reduce the increase in expenditure on health and social security. Mr Sneller asked in particular for a sharp look at VWS. I think that these are quite right remarks, which also refer to many of the previous debates we have had here, but which I have also had in the Upper House. Because it is true that, when you look at the rich budget, those two issues are the main ones. Moreover, with regard to care, care costs have increased explosively in recent years, and Mrs De Vries also referred to them in the coming years. It is not for nothing that some people take the word 'cuckoo boy' in their mouths, because care expenditure tends, because of this explosive increase, to suppress other expenditure potentially in the long term. This does not detract from the enormous importance that society attaches to good health care, which is accessible and affordable to all. But of course we can see that the costs are increasing. In response to the questioners, I would like to say that the main agreements that have been concluded are a step in the right direction and that we are also trying to reduce the expenditure on medicines. There too, we have made a first step. However, referring back to the language that emerged yesterday in the debate, this is a wicked problem, precisely because you really want everyone to have access and that public health remains at the high level we have in the Netherlands, but because you also want money to be left for a lot of other things. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr. Slootweg asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	Before you proceed, Mr Sneller has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	As we discussed in the debate last night, as the independent advice of the WRR approaches, it is also time to speed up thinking again. My question is: what is the Minister doing about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u5	That's a fair point. I am discussing this issue with both ministers at VWS homes. We have two; that also gives room to pay attention to this. Those two ministers and I, incidentally, agree with the Secretary of State of the United States that it is the duty of the Cabinet to ensure that it is made even better, that it remains accessible to everyone, but that it remains affordable. In that triangle, we're gonna have to find it. I see Mr Sneller's questions, as well as Mrs De Vries' questions, as an encouragement to produce results. By the way, it will in the first place be the VWS ministers who will also come to the Chamber with plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u6	At least this Minister will see the follow-up question coming. When can we have that debate in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u7	I believe that I am also speaking to Mr VWS on this subject shortly before the recess and certainly soon after the recess. Could I also give Mr Sneller, at the beginning of next year, sometime in January, an insight into how we see it on behalf of the VWS ministers? For it has my particular attention, of course, but it is primarily the responsibility of the rulers there. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked about another subject, namely guarantees. It is right that he should draw attention to this. He asks how I look at the stake and whether I can also give an insight into what guarantees we all have. For the record, I always give insight into all the guarantee schemes in the Millions Note, but that is hidden in one of the annexes, I believe. If that is useful, I would, of course, like to give it to the Chamber again, but I really believe that we are ensuring maximum transparency. Mrs De Vries asked: how do we ensure even better estimates in the area of taxation and premium? I just wanted to break up that question. I'm about to say something specific about yard and pour in the block. I would also like to say a few words about the estimates at OCW; I wanted to do this separately. But I shall now go into it in a general sense, because that is how I understood Mrs De Vries' question. I think it is good to emphasise that the Visitation Committee, which has recently looked at it, is in a general sense really positive about how the Ministry of Finance estimates. I would also like to stress that a certain degree of deviation is inevitable. See also the somewhat more summary study on estimates made in relation to the economy, I believe from a year ago. Then you just see that if you put the plans of the planning agencies and the international predictions all side by side, almost everyone is able to point in the right direction. But it is not so easy to do it very precisely and completely right. But the good news is that according to that visit, the Ministry of Finance is doing well. However, there are a number of recommendations from the Committee on Visitation, which I can also broadly follow. In the Millions note, I also specifically discussed what I am going to do with it. Mr Sneller referred to the statements of the Minister for Defence. I think he is doing this particularly because he sees that there is underexhaustment. I think the appreciation should be like this. NATO is right to ask the various Members that there should be a credible national plan, as it is put forward, in which the changed security situation is addressed. The priorities mentioned by the Minister of Defence in her letter are long-term priorities. That's how we appointed it to the cabinet. We are going to make the effort to see if it is possible and, if so, what is possible in the spring decision-making process. But I'm not taking an advance on that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten asked about the 10 billion and the budget right. There is, of course, that budget right, but that does not apply to the expenditure financed by contributions. I'll be back on VWS in a little bit. Mrs De Vries asked about the 15 million cash drawer in the media reserve. I believe that the 2019 media budget letter explains how the falling advertising revenue will be absorbed in 2018 and what measures are being taken to prevent that reserve from running out in the coming years. On the basis of the most up-to-date Star estimate, there is now a setback of a small 17 million compared to the spring note stand. Of these, around 9 million can no longer be absorbed by the general media reserve. That's why the cash drawer was used. For the record, covering this setback is absolutely in line with and fits within the budgetary rules as agreed by the cabinet. I would like to make that clear, because that is of course important to me, and I suspect that Mrs De Vries' appreciation of this particular subject has also contributed to her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u8	Actually, I was more concerned with the system. I understand that it must have gone according to the budgetary rules. It would not be good if the Finance Minister did not keep a close eye on that. The question is how often you use such an instrument. I will not say that cash slides are completely undesirable, because of course we use this medicine more often, but the question is whether it is justified to bring that money forward in relation to future years, because then you might need that money. I believe that this should simply be secured by proposals of this kind. I am not concerned with the substance slide. I know why this is done. I know it's about the shortages in Star revenue. I'm talking about the principle that you need to know that you don't have another problem in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u9	I very much agree with Mrs De Vries. By the way, Mrs De Vries remembers that from last summer's round, there are two sides: on the one hand, we are trying to ensure that we solve acute problems in this way, but on the other hand we are also trying to ensure that where that was possible and we saw that there could no longer be access to money that ministries are entitled to, there is also room for a cash slide. But that can be read back extensively in the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u10	It's just that I think it's dangerous. If it is not properly secured, I am curious to see how the Minister appreciates it. We will then be in trouble in 2021. I had a very specific question: why wasn't that money just taken from 2019 or 2020, because now it's being taken from even further away, from the end of the cabinet period? I think that's a dangerous development. Why isn't that money taken from earlier years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u11	The latter is not atypical, because we do that more often. The cash slides we used in and around the summer are sometimes cash slides that relate to 2018 versus 2019 or 2019 versus 2020, but are sometimes also cash slides from farther away years. But of course there is a limit to that. It makes sense to limit you to this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u12	The Minister says: yes, it is true that the Chamber does not have a budget right when it comes to contributions, because the idea is that it is a premium and that it should go to the purpose for which it was collected. But why can't the cabinet eat out of it to its heart's content?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u13	I think it's different. I would also like to add to Mrs Leijten that Parliament, as co-legislator, of course has absolute control over expenditure in the premium sectors and whether the amount of the premium is the right one. In this way, Mrs Leijten can also exercise her budgetary right, provided she can find a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u14	No, that wasn't the question. At a time when money is left on care, that has simply been the case over the past six years; it is a total of 9.6 billion... the government may say where it is going, but not the Chamber. That's not right, is it? Why is the government allowed to do that, but not the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u15	I think I've just tried to explain what the Chamber can do. But to correct Mrs Leijten's image, the following. Yeah, there's been under-exhaustment. I will come to Mr Nijboer's question in a moment, which part is structural and which part is incidental. I think that question is right, because if it is structural, you could also choose a different use structurally. But it's really a misunderstanding, let me put it this way: there's always been money left in care. On the contrary, we have spent billions and billions and billions more on healthcare in recent years. It's about billions. In this cabinet period, too, 16 billion is added, as I recall. We have a problem with the level of healthcare expenditure rather than that there is constant money left. It is true that there are small windfalls in relation to these forecasts, but that is how we have to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u16	There's a structural underexhaustment. The Council of State has already pointed this out to us. That money is being used structurally for something else. What matters to me is that the government is allowed to magic with the money that is said to pay for care, when when the Chamber says that it has a different destination, it is always said that you have no budget right. Then you have to make sure that the Chamber can just re-vote it completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to block two. And block two is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u18	Under-exhaustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u19	I'm gonna get the whole list, 'cause I'm gonna know the order in a minute. But you hit the nail on the head, Mr. Chairman, it's about underexhaustment. There are a number of questions on this by Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mrs De Vries and Mr Stoffer. It might be good to start there at the beginning. The expenditure frameworks we have are maximum frameworks, so no one has an obligation to spend that money coûte que coûte. I think this is not only a question of finance; I remember that some of the Members themselves said it last year in this debate and I think it is also a question of financial considerations. So there is no obligation on anyone in the cabinet to do so. In fact, it is citizens' money which we must be sure to spend in a sensible and efficient way. What's the matter with the underexhaustment? Or at least with a large part of it, because I was pleased with Mr Nijboer's nuance that they are actually different pieces that you have to deal with differently. Due to a combination of factors, the cabinet spends less money on a number of subjects than it intended. This has to do with the time when the cabinet took office, which was very late in 2017, which meant that a lot of plans had to be implemented in a hurry. So it has to do with the lead time. It also has to do with the wider cut that we see. There is a well-run economy in which entrepreneurs are not short of projects, employment is very good, but there are also signs of serious labour shortages. That is important to keep in mind when going through this discussion. The next thing I would like to say about it, also to Mrs De Vries and Mr Nijboer, is that, of course, I am not trying in any way not to spend that money. We follow the normal arrangements at any time. This means that all members of the Cabinet are simply entitled to do the expenses as they are budgeted, provided that they are properly planned. Finance then, of course, makes the funds available. There is one nuance to that, in which the Chamber, and certainly this committee, will end with me, namely that you want it to be effective. You do want to make sure that you protect yourself from inefficient spending, especially at the end of the year because the money would have to run out. It shouldn't be. That is the second point. The third comment. Mr Nijboer rightly said that part of this was already covered by the Millions Note. It has become a bit more; that's right. At the same time, a large part of the money remains available. Mr Nijboer also knows that there is a 100% end-of-year margin for IenW and Defence. This is another risk for the Minister of Finance, because this simply means that I have a mandate. I'll get to that in a minute. But the money remains available. In addition, there is the maximum 1% annual margin. It's designed precisely to protect us from the so-called autumn or December fever. In this context, Mr Stoffer asked whether departments were not always allowed to take those funds with them. I do not think it is the perception of most colleagues that they should take this too casually. In my view, we have struck a good balance between ensuring efficient spending on the one hand and the 1% margin on the other, so that the average ministry can take some with it when it's over, but not all. In addition, there are specific agreements with Defence and IenW, which relate to the nature and nature of these two ministries: long-term projects with long-term commitments. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked: 'I have just referred to '...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u20	Before you proceed, Mr Slootweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u21	I know how this end-of-year margin works, but infrastructure doesn't spend the money year by year. The minister's pretty much pointing out that the cabinet got a bit late in the day. Yet here I almost feel that it is no longer a matter of getting on steam too late, but that infrastructure has a structural difficulty in getting on with this overprogramming. You're gonna need that overprogramming to at least get it right. Does the Minister have any ideas as to how we can achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u22	It's not that extreme. However, the economy is doing very well, which you see in particular in a ministry like that of Infrastructure. Those who have to provide services in part have a different situation than a few years ago, and fortunately, they have no shortage of work. I think we all know it from our personal situation: where contractors, such as contractors and people in construction, were in line a few years ago, you can now join in line as the client. In that respect, it has changed completely. I have no structural concerns yet, but I will put this on my list to include with the Minister of Infrastructure. Maybe that's how I get to deal with Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u23	At least I think that's very nice. It was already a bit along the lines: because of this delay, the projects also last longer. Do you therefore have the chance that you could have realised less later in this cabinet period because these projects take longer and the costs have been incurred as a result?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u24	Again not necessarily there, but that of course requires sensible project management, in this case from that particular ministry. This means that you also have to make solid agreements about a specific project. But we are going to dissect the work of the Minister of IenW and the people who work for her. Of course, you have to make good appointments, so that because of not having enough people at your disposal later on, you don't mess with your contractual obligations. My firm observation is that the Ministry looks at this in a sensible way and thinks about it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer and others asked the right but not so easy to answer which part is occasional and which part is structural, even because you see the mix shifting over the years. Here's what I want to do. I was already very interested in this and I am encouraged to do so by him and others, namely to have made it clear to the Spring Paper what is our best possible estimate at that time of the part that is possible structural and the part that is obviously incidental. That also seems to me to be the right decision-making time. In all honesty, I asked in the Ministry, but I don't have any figures for that at the moment. I cannot now say what is occasional and what is structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u25	I'm surprised at that. You have a budget, even more so, all budgets, and there is less spending than expected on posts that are very precisely specified. You know that such a fine is occasional, but in the case of Defence and Infrastructure it is structural because they are already not getting their extra expenses, they have received so many hundred million more and in the years to come hundreds of millions more. They haven't reached the first one, so that's structural. They'll take it with them. I can sort of break it up myself. You know where the bumps and the setbacks are, don't you? Of course, if you spend less on medicines, for example, it is a bit of a question whether those prices remain structurally lower or whether those prices are not that bad only this year. There's always a bit arbitrary in it, but you do have a little sense of which part of that 3.7 billion is structural and which part is incidental? Whether it's a ratio of 1/2.7 billion or 0.5/3 billion or half at half? Doesn't matter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u26	I also know Mr Nijboer as very carefully and he would not find "a little feeling" enough here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u27	Now I have nothing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u28	I also believe that we should map this in a good and proper way. To mention just how difficult it is: Mr Nijboer mentions two examples where it might turn out differently. To be honest, at least I hope that some of the profits on medicines will prove to be structural. And I see the situation with Defense and IenW, but especially with Defense, really different. That is a start-up problem, my firm observation. I suspect that this will not be possible for the next year, but at least later in this cabinet period, in a sensible way until the last euro, and I very much hope so. I don't see any structural underexhaustment there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u29	That's what we're gonna see. I share the concerns of the CDA. The defence budget will be increased by 19% next year. That was the issue with the Millions Note, but it will be a little more now. So we are going to spend 20% more in this labour market, because we also need more soldiers. That's just not gonna work. I can tell you that already. You will come back next year with the communication: we will pass it on. I find it difficult to get a grip on the Minister's argument: we started late, it may be occasional... It's big money. 100 million is also big money, but 3.7 billion is twice the dividend tax and we have talked about this for a whole year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u30	I was hoping we could make that comparison somewhere. But for the sake of precision, I was just so pleasantly surprised by the way Mr Nijboer himself unraveled the problem and acknowledged that a large part of that money immediately falls prey to the 100%-end of the year margin. So you can't count on that. It does land in the balance now, but I can cheer it up again next year or else the year after that. That means a risk to me. Mr Nijboer knows how this in-terminal works. The second is that there is indeed a fine of more than half a billion. And besides, you have the question: what is incidental and what is structural? But I would really like to free us from that thought, as if there were 3.5 billion left, which is not being spent now. That's just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u31	I do agree with Mr Nijboer. I think it is remarkable that the Minister cannot state what is occasional and structural. Because earlier, when the cover had to be found for the gas decision, there was no doubt about that. I think we should make better assessments of this for the future. I have another point. The Minister seems to say a little 'yes, yes, I do not really have a role in that'. But I do think he has a role to play in planning: when can and when can the investments be made in the defence sector and when can the Ministry of IenW be ready and not ready to implement these road projects? Because he also had to authorize the release of the additional post to the ministries. So I wonder how he sees his role in planning that kind of investment, too, so that we have less of this kind of under-utilisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u32	Perhaps I will start with the first point, in order to avoid misunderstandings. Of course I'm interested in knowing what is occasional and structural. That was my first question, even earlier in the year, at the Ministry. Because that makes a lot of the conversations we have here, but also of the conversations we have in the cabinet, of course, just easier and more insightful. That is why I would also like to assure the Chamber that I will come up with this at the next decision-making moment where you will look at the totality of the revenue and expenditure, namely in the spring decision-making process. I think that's prudent. I could very well imagine that there might be a reproach if I make an assessment now, with 50% or 60% of them appearing to be wrong. I understand Mrs De Vries' second point just as well: do I see myself as a driving force in making that spending? The least that colleagues can expect is that I simply make it possible for them to do the spending properly. I see two of those who are particularly concerned here with efficiency in the first place. I'll see if that happens in an efficient way. I do not have the impression that colleagues in this cabinet need another driver because they are actually reluctant to do their own spending. That is not the case. The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Infrastructure were also keen to spend that money this year. I do not have the impression that I can do more for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u33	I am sure those ministers would indeed have liked to spend that money on charities, I shall say, on good things for the defence and for infrastructure. But the question is: when are you going to start planning something in a budget? I believe that the Minister for Finance has a role to play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u34	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u35	I therefore ask him to be critical of this and to look carefully when it is realistic to put this type of investment in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u36	Of course, I fully agree with Mrs De Vries. It is also good to realise that some things remain the situation of tightness. For other things, however, in the case of the Defence Department, I am simply thinking of large capital investments in, for example, material investments, that is, of course, a completely different story. There you do not have that dependence on, for example, the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u37	First of all, there are not just two Members in this Chamber who think efficiency is important. That's what I want to say. And then to the Minister. He says he can't tell what's structural and incidental right now. Well, what we've got from ING, which is close to $800 million, is indeed occasional. However, in view of the banking sector, this might also be structural. We don't know what else is hanging over their heads in criminal matters. But everyone understands that. The Minister says that he cannot now indicate what you can spend on this because he may have been wrong about the final law in the spring and we may have spent too much money. I get that, too. But he's taking away the opportunity to spend money with this. Not only does this deprive us of sight, it also deprives us of budget rights. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u38	Apart from the introduction of this question by Mrs Leijten, I would like to outline it once again. There are two policy moments in the year; let me put it this way. There are two...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u39	I know how the state budget works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u40	But I'm gonna say it anyway, because it's important. This debate, the Navy note, is not the time when the cabinet is looking at what it can do to facilitate additional wishes. I am going to say something about the budget reserve in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u41	Half a billion is reserved...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mrs Leijten, we will allow the Minister to speak for a moment, and then you will be able to do your second part of your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to refer to the Navy's note and last year's debate. One of the most fundamental things we did back then had to do with that dramatic situation with that hurricane in the West. We then made a specific reservation of 550 million, I believe. That type of business is obvious to do with the Autumn Note, but additional policies do not facilitate. And I think that Mrs Leijten is also concerned about efficiency. I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u44	Such a final statement is just arrogant. That doesn't fit a minister in this Chamber. Everyone here thinks that's important. And pretending that only two members would consider efficiency important is really bullshit. And then being happy that I would be worried about that, too, is to a large extent arrogant. That fits a minister. And then back to our chance to exercise budget law as well. Here in the Spring paper I made the proposal to make money available for practical learning. That was a small amount of money. That was not allowed then, because "who knows there was a deficit in the autumn and we would have already spent money." Now we are in that autumn and the surplus is even bigger, and now it is not allowed. In this way, the Minister is preventing the Chamber from taking initiatives, and that is not allowed. We can see that such a fine is occasional for ING, but the rest, which is possible structural or at least possible for an occasional edition, he should present us in a clear way. For this is the moment when the Chamber indeed is! It is also possible to make additional expenditure, just as the cabinet does, because it also raises a CO fund for half a billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u45	I really distance myself from this reasoning. I have said that there are two policy moments for the cabinet to look at the total palette of revenue and expenditure. That is what we do in the spring decision-making process, and we do it again in the August decision-making process. Let me now turn to the two rapporteurs. There are two rapporteurs who do this on behalf of the Chamber. I have said that they sat up straight. That was physical also to be observed on this subject. I believe that they are doing so on behalf of the Chamber and not on their own behalf, so I did not say that or meant that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u46	I just want the Minister now to answer my question about the possibility for us to exercise budgetary rights. Then we need to know: what is a structural under-utilisation, what is an incidental source of income, such as such a fine for ING, and what is an incidental under-utilisation? If we do not get that overview, neither in the spring note nor in the autumn note, we will be restricted in our budget law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u47	I have just said to Mr Nijboer that I think it is important that we all understand which part is occasional and which part is structural. This applies to the Cabinet and, of course, to both Chambers. And it seems obvious to me that I am doing this carefully, and that I will come back to that in the Spring paper. I think that is exactly what Mrs Leijten is referring to. So that's what I'd like to see her about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u48	I've heard it all this way, and I thought, "Who's going to worry about efficiency?" I thought so, too, but it's two others. Very good, because at least there are three who are concerned about that. But my question is another. I understand we don't understand everything right now. But if we go to the Spring Note later, I'm gonna give it a try, at least there's one MP who's always very concerned about public debt. I am, but I hope the others are, too. Can we not make the agreement that if there is structural money left, we will put that structuralally in reducing public debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u49	For a part of me that sounds immediately like music to the ears, but even in that science that is something we naturally have to weigh with the whole cabinet. We also need to look at the balance sheet in precisely that triangle that I outlined earlier: investing in society, reducing burdens and getting public finances in order. So I thank Mr Stoffer very much for his encouragement. I have also said before that it really helps in general if members of the Finance Committee are also concerned about the very state debt. I believe that this is something that we had a very extensive exchange a year ago. And it is good to repeat once again that we have been told by the Planning Bureau and the Council of State, our chief mathematician and our main advisor, that we are close to the edges of what we can all spend wisely. We have an expansive budget. So thank you very much to Mr Stoffer for this tightening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u50	I look forward to spring with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u51	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked if I could also clarify the outstanding targets for the next Millions Note. I'll tell her. Then I will start with the 2020 Millions Note. So that's what I come up with in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u53	Thank you for that, because that was indeed one of the questions I had. The follow-up question is, of course, whether there will be a proposal on how these targets will be fulfilled. I do not think it would be wise to carry these targets infinitely in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u54	I very much agree with her. By the way, to some extent, I would have liked to have resolved this in the light of the forthcoming spring decision-making. She is absolutely right that these targets are there to be fulfilled. So I'd like to make a deal with her so that, if it's okay, I'm gonna do some of that in the next spring round. The last piece I'll do at the Millions Note. I do not know exactly which targets might be agreed, so I cannot fully guarantee that everything will be fulfilled, but that must of course be the objective. Mr Slootweg drew attention to the under-utilization of IenW and Defense. We talked about that. I have explained that the resources remain available at these two ministries. Mr Slootweg also asked about the accres. A fair question, because if you have under-utilisation on the rich budget, then it also immediately has its impact on that staircase-on-strap-afsystematiek. That system generally works pretty well. That is not only what we think of the Empire, but also provinces and municipalities. However, we have wondered whether this might be a completely unintentional way of putting municipalities in trouble. Our perception is now that this is not the case. It remains, of course, that if we spend that money in addition, we will think of the higher expenditures of Defence and Infrastructure, which, of course, also has its impact on the accres. So part of it just comes back. Mr Nijboer asked about the OCW mission. That target is the result of an autonomous setback on the reference estimate and will have to be completed in spring 2019. I'll talk to the Minister of OCW later today. Then I think I've treated the block of underexhaustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u55	I had asked a few more questions about the in=terminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u56	Oh, yeah, I'll do that right away. In my opinion, Mr Snels' question was not so much how it works as why you are trying to do it relatively quickly. I believe that Mr Snels, either in the General Financial Reviews or in the debate on the Spring Note, has asked the same question exactly, namely how things have gone in the past. You see an image that it happens at all kinds of decision-making moments in the year, but also that each of my predecessors has always seized the first possible moment to fill in part of the mission statement. That also makes sense, because the moment you don't fill out that job, but you always spend money, you have a problem with your annual frameworks. So it is obvious, perhaps, that Mr Snels finds that a little disappointing that I am also trying to fill in part of that mandate directly with Spring Note, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u57	I understand the Finance Minister's dilemma. We should be careful about this, too. But I do remember the debate we had on Mrs Leijten's amendment in the spring paper. At that time, about your answer was: that is not allowed by the budgetary rules. You now state in the written answers yourself that this in=terminal may indeed be used through the Court's budgetary right for amendments. In fact, while recognising the Minister's dilemma, my question is to be somewhat clearer in the coming spring note about the room that the Chamber has to use for any policy changes. I think that would be helpful for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u58	Let me do that, then, also in order to eliminate any misunderstanding that might exist with Mr Snels or Mrs Leijten, whether or not I have replied. We are going to do this task together, as a parliament, as a cabinet and I, of course, particularly as Minister of Finance. It is quite logical that I actually have exactly the same reflexes as my predecessors, namely that because that task has to be fulfilled, you also see what Mr Nijboer says about those other targets, the first possible moment at which you can reasonably do so, also with both hands. So I won't be able to suppress that reflex next time. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to energy, climate and the budgetary reserve. As has already been said, purchasing power, energy and the citizens' energy bill then follow. Mr Snels first asked about the legal obligations as of 1 January in the financial year 2019. Honestly: if he doesn't put his finger on the sore spot there, then he'll ask for attention to what's just a dilemma. I suspect that's what he's asking for himself for. The draft budget is an estimate. This includes an assessment of which part of the cash budget is mandatory on 1 January, to suppliers, to implementing organisations and so on. Some of the money is not compulsory at that time, but it is a few months later. The opposite would actually be undesirable, because then you would not have prepared yourself as a government at all for that new financial year. I understand Mr Snels when he says: at that time, therefore, the piece of free space is even more dressed up. We've really been looking into that. I do not see how I can solve that dilemma other than simply reporting it very transparently. The General Court is also going to look at this budgetary methodology. I'll ask them to take a specific look at this as well. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna move on to the rest of block three. As I said, the autumn note is the moment when in principle no new policy wishes are accepted, but we have the regular decision-making moments for that. It is true that, as a cabinet, we naturally aim to accelerate climate policy, that there has also been a judicial ruling, and that is why we have thought that it is simply prudent to reserve 500 million once, with caution and also knowingly with the chosen wording as it stands on paper. I would like to point out in particular, including to Members, the following. It says the word 'possibly', in which several ministries are mentioned and in which it is mentioned that it is based in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, but that there is also a special obligation on me. In that context, we need to see it. Nor is it preached to be attributed to one category or another. There we are, to be honest, not yet either. But it was the view of the entire cabinet, especially myself, that it would be prudent, given the state of the crop, to make a one-off reservation for this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked in particular about the assessment framework. Of course, I will always look at the question: what is cost-effective or effective and how do we do it in such a way that we get as much CO reduction as possible for as little money as possible? By the way, I'm not doing that alone. That is, of course, also absolutely the challenge of the Minister of EZK and of the other members of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u59	Can we just get an overview of what that 500 million is built up out of? Which ministries, how many, what obligations? I mean, just put away half a billion dollars and don't know why... Is that because of the threatening fine from Brussels? Is that because you actually want to do something for the Urgenda case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u60	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u61	Or is that because there is actually expected expenditure? Then we must also be able to check whether this is sufficient, whether this is only for companies, as is the interpretation of the PvdA? Our explanation is that it is a provision for a huge fine to come. But I'd like to see the underlying underpinning of that $500 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u62	I am equally interested in what threatening Brussels fine Mrs Leijten has in mind. That's news to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u63	Well, then you might have to raise the amount! It is simply well known that the Netherlands is lagging behind in its CO reduction and that sanctions are against this. One of our suggestions was: perhaps the government will assess it so that it becomes a fine. Or perhaps an investment in CO elsewhere, so that we do not have to reduce here. 'Cause that's how it works all the time. We had the analysis that it could be underneath. But the Minister can take it away by just showing us that 500 million support for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mr. Chairman. Here too, it is important to be genuinely precise and not to create any misunderstandings. Because there is a court case, but that is Dutch case law, where, from my mind, there was a ruling at a court in 2015 and there was recently a ruling at a Dutch court in that Urgenda case. In addition, the cabinet, with man and power and in good-Dutch tradition, is at a lot of tables with a lot of people talking about how to shape climate policy as wisely as possible. What did we, as a cabinet, intend to do, and what did I find, also on account of my responsibility, really prudent? That given those uncertainties, given that statement, we find a one-off reservation where, again, the word "possibly" is in place and where we very clearly keep the option of giving several ministries the opportunity to spend that money. And when, of course, I also see my reply to Mr Slootweg's question 'what is effective and what is cost-effective'? Because once again, we are talking about the citizens' money we spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u65	I'm sick of it. I've been a Member of Parliament for 12 years and I've been trying to complete my budget right for 12 years. How many times I haven't been shipped off with "uncovered," "no backup"? That is true not to count on one or two hands, but I need at least ten for that. Here is a Minister of Finance who says 'it seems prudent to me'....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think it's okay to reserve money for necessary items, but then I want to know what exactly, in order to be able to check that too. For I will tell you this: about the investment we want to make to meet people, almost 1 billion, in their energy bill, the Minister is going to say again that it is 'unscrupulous'. Want to bet? We can make a bet on that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u66	Is that your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u67	But he doesn't have any justification here, and he's asking us to agree to that. I find that bizarre, and I would like to ask the Minister once again simply to give the justification: how did he, per ministry, with foreseeable expenditure, come to that half billion? If there's a margin of error in there, fine, at your service, but he can't ship us off with this blurry scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u68	I do attach a great deal to that beautiful word 'practical'. Because given the uncertainty that exists here, given that judgment, I think this is wise, just as I think it is sensible that the cabinet last year, at the very end, said: something terrible has happened in the West, in the Antilles, there is a hurricane, we are going to reserve money once and we are going to make sure that it is spent effectively. And that is exactly what we have done, because we also regularly have the conversation with the Antilles about what is needed to get access to that money. But there is still one fundamental point. That 500 million is now in the Navy's Note. It is up to the Chamber to agree. That's just a majority of the House today, or tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow. It's as simple as that. It is a proposal from the cabinet, but if the Chamber were to say in a majority: we do not want the 500 million... This is democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u69	It pains me to see how far away Mrs Leijten and the Minister are from each other in this way, because I do not think that is necessary at all. In my view, both support the idea of a 500 million reserve. In my opinion, we want to be able to judge as a Chamber in the very near future, and I would like to mention, in Mr Snel's spirit, Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, that this is being done effectively and what is happening with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u70	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u71	Can the Minister promise that next year, when the budget reserve comes into effect, he will simply inform the Chamber of what it is being spent on and what the distribution is, as Mrs Leijten has just asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u72	Without a doubt, and this is, of course, always the task that I, as well as colleagues in the cabinet, have been fully committed to. Let me make the comparison one more time. A year ago, it was not possible to implement this emergency aid at that time: then we will do it about sister and everything. What have we done now, after consultation in the cabinet? We said we're going to reserve this money. It's money we might be spending on CO reduction. As far as I am concerned, that is sensible and prudent as far as I am concerned. We also immediately draw that in the full width, because it might be possible that you will find out that you can best run it through ministry x or y or z, different from what you think right now. So Mr Sneller is absolutely right that we need a sound plan. We have to spend it wisely. Of course I will come back to the Chamber, but before I do, the Minister of EZK will probably do so already.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u73	I always like it when my colleague from D66 acts as some sort of mediator between me and the minister, but something has become clear from the Minister's reply to Mr Sneller, namely that there is no justification now. It's still coming. So we're saying, okay, book only half a billion. We don't know if it's enough. We don't know where it's going. When the Chamber does something like this, it is always rejected, especially when the opposition does something like that. But now we have to sign at the cross. So this is what budgetary policy is like, Mr President. Just so we're clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u74	However, I would like to refer to the system of the budgetary reserve. Are we going to have a decision on the Spring Bill or the Millions Note? Or is it through spending plans handed over to the Minister of Finance, with Article 3.1 actually looking at efficiency?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u75	It is more in the direction of the second than in the direction of the first, because we made that reservation. That is not money that will have to be taken into account in the broader considerations of the spring decision-making process, because that is where you already have complex problems. We have just wanted to say: given the fact that we now have a little bit of money left and the fact that there are great uncertainties in this area, when we do not know if we need that money, let alone how much, it is wise, it is prudent, to make a reservation. Of course, there is a need for support for this. But again, this is the government's commitment. The cabinet will have to be able to count on a majority for the 500 million plan. First here for the reservation and undoubtedly also later in the final elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u76	Let's talk about the spending plans. I understand the system. It is a question that we have sometimes asked, for example, the Secretary of State for Finance about spending plans for the Tax Administration. I actually think that these spending plans should be sent to the Chamber, including support. I think this is perhaps even more important for this budget reserve. Could the Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u77	I know the temptations of Mr Snels on this point, but then we are back to the discussion about the additional post that he and I have had on a number of occasions. For the sake of the Compatibility Act, proposals should be made by the various ministries, which are about efficiency. They are then discussed with the Ministry of Finance and, frankly, I think it is perfectly logical that these are internal documents. It is true that, precisely in terms of efficiency, the cabinet then has an obligation to give an insight into this when offering it to the Chamber. But I honestly do not feel for the automatic disclosure of this documentation. The last thing I can promise Mr Snels is this. In everything that the Cabinet intends to do in the area of climate, the Minister of EZK, but probably others in the Cabinet, will want to talk to the Chamber, but also have to, about the question: why do you choose solution A and B and not solution C and D? What is the effect of this, what does it cost you and what are the burdens for the citizen? It's gonna have to be here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u78	I can't wait to see what half a billion is based on. It's quite an achievement in itself. There is, I think, almost Chamberwide support for half a billion dollars, perhaps even more than less than less than half a billion dollars, except for the PVV. It is quite an achievement to be called into question now. If the cabinet decides to separate half a billion, there must be some justification. What's that based on? Why, for example, is it not a billion or one and a half billion? You could have. Without that half billion, you have 4.2 billion left, so you had a lot more space. It's also occasional money. I really think we have a right to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u79	It is a combination of a substantive and political weighting in something that is highly uncertain. It doesn't say "maybe" for nothing. I'll make another comparison with last year. There was then a reservation of 550 million and a little bit more emergency support. That was the best possible estimate of that moment. I did not see the plans, because it was partly for my term of office, but I am sure that it was not made up of all kinds of carefully explained blocks. And here that is certainly not possible. It is true that we were faced with this Urgenda pronunciation very late in this calendar year. In addition, we are intensively in conversation with the climate tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u80	Look, I know a thing or two about housing corporations. They demand a billion structuralally to make it more sustainable. Now we are talking about half a billion dollars one-off that can be spent in a few years' time. If this is the whole government's estimate for covering the climate agreement, you can throw the whole thing in the trash. Then stop arguing in the coalition, because that's not gonna happen. If it's not this, then what is it? Is it just for that Urgenda pronunciation and for shutting down those coal power stations? Is that the estimate? We should know that, shouldn't we? It's about big money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u81	I am really giving you the transparency I can give you right now. It is very obvious and it is an obligation that Mr Nijboer is right to place in the cabinet to implement it when these plans come into effect. At the moment when those plans are not made, when the money is not needed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mr. Nijboer, this is the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u83	Yeah, but this really has to be done. It is half a billion which is mainly reserved for the EZK budget. Especially with the lack of support, I would reserve it for compensating households. That's a big emergency, that's what the whole room thinks. Even the PVV, I hear Mr Van Dijck say. Why don't we? You're not providing any support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u84	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u85	At the risk of repeating myself, I would point out that there is only one ministry in The Hague where the K of Climate is in, and that is the Ministry of EZK. Precisely because of this discussion, precisely because of the possibility that several colleagues in the cabinet have plans that are effective in the field of climate, it is stated in the explanatory statement that the Minister of EZK is coordinating and that there is an extra lock on the door in the role of the Minister of Finance. It is quite explicitly described that other ministers and other ministries also have access to this money, depending on the plans we come up with. I was with Mr Slootweg, who asked about green financial products. He is right: the energy transition needs to be financed to a large extent privately. It's true that I came up with that green bond. Could local authorities do the same? They can in principle issue green bonds, but most local authorities choose to finance with loans from the sector banks BNG and NWB. Moreover, these sector banks have already issued green bonds. I've had the budget fund. Mr Sneller compared the calculation made in America, in the United States, with the 2.5% of their GDP at the end of this century. What the planning agencies are going to do is calculate climate policy until 2050. Frankly, I think that is a better variant, because that also offers more clarity and therefore more scope for action. That's faster than the end of this century. In most cases it is also the case that Mr.Sneller moves me towards more speed and earlier dates rather than further away. So I think 2050 is really better than 2100.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u86	Sure. What the PBL is going to do is give us a perspective of action. What the U.S. Congress had calculated is precisely the perspective of no action. There still seem to be parties who think it is better not to act. In that case, it would be useful to clarify the cost of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u87	Can I do it in such a way that I pass that question on to the Minister of EZK? I see Mr Faster nodding. It's always tempting to say something on behalf of someone else, but let me pass that question on to him. Then I suspect he'll either do it or explain why he thinks it should be different. He'll do that in writing to the Chamber. Mr Snels also referred to the Compatibility Act and the budgetary rules. For the record, the reserve is totally in line with that. Filling that reserve is ceiling-relevant and withdrawals are then ceiling-neutral again. That also explains my answer about why you do not need this in the spring decision-making process. I believe that I have also answered Mr Bruins and Mr Slootweg's question on the balancing framework and adequacy. I'll be at the end of block three. Then I'm at block four, purchasing power and energy. Here too, it is good to review in the introduction what has been presented today by the Planning Bureau. First, about purchasing power in a general sense. It looks really good for a lot of Dutch people for next year. We said in the Millions Note that we thought about 95%, 96% would improve 1.5%. With today's figures, the Planning Bureau is raising the 1.5% very slightly, which is 1.6%. A marginal difference, but fortunately in the right direction. It is true that if you break up those figures, the energy bill will be more expensive, that part of the shopping basket will be more expensive and that the care premium will rise, but it is also true that next year there will be the elderly discount. It is also and above all that the pay slip will look much happier. If you add all that together, you get to that 1.6% average. I will not say that it has never been shown before, but it is true that it has been worn very widely. Around 95% is just almost everyone in the Netherlands. I keep saying that myself, and I think that is really prudent from my particular role: there is no guarantee. This is the best possible assessment of our independent mathematician. I cannot guarantee and I will not guarantee that this is exactly what it will look like next year. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer and Mrs De Vries and Mr Snels also asked about the costs and, in particular, the energy bill. I think it's important to tear a few pieces apart there as well. Part of the problem is related to next year's energy bill, as it has already been booked. I would like to repeat once again that it is ultimately about the overall package. Then you just have to be fair and on the one hand acknowledge what is going up, and on the other hand, the shopping basket is getting more expensive and the care premium is going to go up, and on the other hand, you have to pay attention to the things that make the overall picture look better. The second issue, and I think Mr Nijboer and Mrs De Vries asked for this, is to make it affordable for citizens of the whole climate bill. Some in this house have been locked up in the climate cockpit until mid-night earlier this week. Me too. One of the major challenges is, of course, how to ensure that both you and that energy transition shape and do what is cost-effective and accounts for citizens in a fair and acceptable way, and in particular for citizens who earn modal or less than modal. I can't say anything about that right now, because those tables aren't ready yet. I can only point to the Chamber, and part of the Chamber has also been to that so-called cockpit, that it really is a combination of each of these three things. So yes to energy transition, yes to doing it in a cost-effective way and yes to really sharing that bill fairly. Wiebes will continue to do so, and he will also explicitly ask the PBL, but also the CPB, so that we really have an insight into each of these parts at the time we are going to make final choices. Mrs Leijten asked me what I think about a personal loan for sustainability. I think I have just said that we are taking this affordability very seriously with regard to sustainability and that we are therefore taking this very seriously. This is, of course, true in general. See also the letter on the financial sector; a completely different subject. In general, I think you should look very carefully at what is acceptable and portable, especially for those with a small wallet. That alone does not mean that I am opposed to the conclusion of personal loans, because that can help. However, it is then a question of the conditions under which this is to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u88	Those who watched Pauw last Monday got the impression that Mr Samsom was looking for the individual solution with an individual loan, because the individual energy bill would go down. Would the government agree that any possible collectivity of solving our common problem, which also takes account of that debt mountain, I would just say to the CDA, and taking into account those low and middle incomes, is excluded? Or does the government share that the purely individual solution should not be the route we end up on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u89	With all due respect for Mr Samsom's passion, we are dealing with the cabinet. The cabinet will ultimately have to decide and refer those decisions to the Chamber. On the contrary, I wanted to emphasise that the affordability and the ability of all of us to experience this energy transition is crucial. That's just reasonable. I am in no way one of those who say: why do we actually do this energy transition? On the contrary, I think it is necessary and the time to do it properly and wisely is limited. But I do think that society as a whole should be able to experience that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u90	I'm still thinking a little bit about what the Minister is saying. I think he's just saying yes to my question. I also understand why he says, "I can never rule out a personal loan to make your house more sustainable." I understand that, of course. But saying "this is the solution, everyone a loan for the sustainability of the house" and removing the collectivity altogether can't be the answer either. But I think the Minister actually said yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u91	I really think it's important that I choose my own words. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that we should not shuffle off this energy transition and that we should not allow the cost of it to be disproportionate in the case of middle incomes, let alone in the case of people with less than average income. I think that's very important. That is also the view of the cabinet and, in my view, the whole coalition. At the same time, borrowing could also be part of the solution. That could be collective or it could be personal. In general, I find it difficult to go along with Mrs Leijten's position. There is one thing I am very opposed to, of course, and that is why I referred to that bank letter from earlier this week. It is true that this is the case, and I find it really tearing and toeing, but that is another dossier that says that those families, which are already vulnerable, often take out loans under very unfavourable conditions. I am referring, for example, to those flash credits. Quite apart from the personal responsibility that people have and what it starts with, I have great difficulty with that earning model of helping those people's debt even further. But that's really different from what's going on here right now. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries also asked about feasibility and affordability. I think I have said in her direction that, as far as I am concerned, this is really happening next year, reading what the Planning Bureau is saying. Next year is almost starting, but again, I can't guarantee that. Mr Nijboer referred to a number of examples. These differences are indeed significant in some examples. Let me put it mildly, because I do not know the examples he refers to, but I do suspect that there are other things involved, such as switching to another supplier. In general, I can say "but then I really base myself on the purchasing power plates of the Planbureau and the different categories of the Planbureau that you end up with that 95% to 96% of the Dutch who are making progress. As a cabinet, we also wanted to look very closely last summer and make sure that the lower group can take full advantage of it. In my opinion, it is a public secret, if not public information, that we have also done additional repairs for the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u92	But the energy bill has been the subject of a major political debate, by Buma, Segers and Jetten, who said last Sunday: everyone must be able to experience it. And just for this purpose, the cabinet deliberately chose to increase it by €51 gross, if you charge the VAT by more than €60, per household. So how does that relate to the stories just told that it's on those climate tables in that cockpit? That's a plane, isn't it? A 17-man cockpit, I'm not getting in it. So whoever came up with that... It's a recipe for misery, but maybe something good will come out. How does that relate to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u93	I do not think I should go into the cockpit as a working model. I wanted to separate the climate debate from the current situation. I think that's fair. It is true that parts of consumption are taxed more heavily. This applies to the low VAT rate and to the energy bill. But I think it is fair and balanced that the cabinet says: you have to see that in the total palette. To do so, you must explicitly include the retirement and elderly discounts, and you must also look at what remains at the bottom of the pay slip for workers. It's not my words, it's the words of the Planning Bureau. The Planbureau says: if you add all that together, you have a plus that was 1.5% at the Millions Note and is now 1.6%, 95% to 96% of the Netherlands. It's hard to pretend that's completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u94	Very clear, also towards Mrs De Vries. We have economic growth and, on balance, households in the Netherlands are improving on average. That includes the energy bill; there is no discussion about that at all. In fact, if we go greening, we'll all have to pay for it. So I'm not saying it's all free. That's not what the PvdA claims at all. I think that's a promise no one can live up to. What matters is that we share the energy costs fairly. The climate agreement is coming up. This is a first step, which undermines everything those leaders say. You deliberately raise the energy bill. Of course there is some income tax in it, but that's not what Buma is about when he talks about the yellow shirts and that's not what Segers is about on the front page of the Volkskrant. That is exactly what this is about, and I am referring to that. Because that affects the credibility of politics and undermines the climate goals that the cabinet wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u95	First of all, I very much appreciate what Mr Nijboer says about the general picture and about the task. I sincerely appreciate that he's just real about that and that he agrees that you need to tell the whole story here and to paint the whole picture. Why am I pulling these two things apart so emphatically? Because on the one hand you can already see that some of the loads go up, but again, with a big plus at the bottom of the line. I believe that as a cabinet and as a coalition, and in particular the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, you have the task of looking very clearly at this energy transition, which Mr Nijboer quite rightly says will not be free of charge, to see how we ensure that it is fair and reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u96	Surely that's not to be explained to any human being when everyone keeps saying they're getting energy bills that go sky high?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u97	It is true that next year's reduction in income tax will compensate for the increase in VAT and more than that. However, the climate debate will mainly take place from 2020 onwards, also with additional burdens. There won't be room for another income tax cut. My question relates in particular to the bottom of society. There are also elderly people with an AOW and at most a very small pension. By the way, this group is the only one in the Netherlands with a second tenth decline in January. So my question is about the bottom of society, which includes those older people, who can't borrow for a heat pump either. How does the Minister intend to reduce the climate costs for those older people from 2020, even if there is no room for a reduction in income tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u98	However, first we go to the current position of the crop. Older people, too, are generally better off in the vast majority of cases. Mr Van Rooijen also knows the figures from August. There is no doubt that the vast majority of older people are making progress. The good news is also for Mr Van Rooijen that under no group in Dutch society there is as little poverty as among the elderly. That is the merit of the whole system we have built together. That's an important thing to take with you. What I do agree with Mr Van Rooijen is that in this energy transition you should look in particular at vulnerable people. I just said the same thing. You have to look in particular at those vulnerable who, moreover, have no earning capacity. So those are older people with already a narrow scholarship. Of people of let me say my own age with a narrow scholarship you can say that they have the ability in theory to increase their earning capacity, but that is often not the case with older people. That too must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u99	But I actually asked the following question. From 2020, these burdens will only really play, also fiscally and otherwise. Older people already know that these reductions are threatening, that pensions are not indexed and that they will soon be subject to high additional environmental burdens. Does the Minister understand that they cannot bear these burdens? Because their purchasing power is falling further, pensions are not rising, reductions are threatening, and at the same time climate costs are rising significantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u100	Once again, older people will be making good progress in almost all cases next year. Full stop. It's important to mark that. Once again, the assignment to this cabinet is because Mr Nijboer is right: it will not be free of charge to ensure a fair and balanced burden-sharing across all groups, young and old, working and non-working, in the city and in the countryside, with a thick wallet and with a small wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mr. Van Rooijen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u102	My question was about something else. The climate tax increases will only come in 2020, regardless of the increases we are now experiencing. My question was how he thinks that purchasing power development and climate costs can be met for people with an AOW and at most a small pension. So I'm not talking about 2019. We agree on that. Oh, thank God. My question is about 2020 and later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u103	By weighing that in. But at least I got out of the cockpit temporarily. That is one of the challenges that lie ahead, but I cannot, of course, take any part of that at the moment and make any selective promises about it. I can say in general that this climate transition must be done, that it must be done cost-effectively and that we must take account of all the groups in Dutch society. Mr. Chairman. I am with Europe and with that I remain with Mr Van Rooijen. First of all, let me say a few words about the euro area instrument and then a few other things about Italy. Last week I repeated that we are opposed to a new transfer element and a new transfer union. We're against a new, additional, free floating pot of money. We are also opposed to a stability mechanism. I have also said that there can be no surprise for those who know the coalition agreement that we are within the MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework, for convergence, reform, competition and modernisation. First of all, we have agreed on this with the finance ministers. This was then discussed and texts were produced by the Heads of Government. That is quite apart from what we have agreed on in the area of risk reduction, which I believe the Chamber is addressing in large numbers, and regardless of what we have agreed on the possibility of restructuring debt, which I believe the Chamber is appealing to in very large numbers. We have agreed that we will look at an instrument that falls within the MFF and that will be explicitly about convergence and competition. So that puts the ball right where we'd like it to be. Does this mean that I think everything that comes out of it is good, acceptable and sensible? No, of course not. It is certainly not the case that I regard everything as unwise. I believe that we now have a duty to ensure that we actively consider what such an instrument could look like and that we should then assess what is on the table, on its merits. That leads to Mr Van Dijck. Mr Van Dijck's second question was: how can this exist outside the MFF? That is not the case. Read the text again. It expressly states that it is in or within the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u104	This was a very short answer on Europe and on Friday's Euro Summit. The discussion we had last week was in favour of the debate. We wanted the day of the week after a plenary debate with the Prime Minister. We're with the Minister now. My question to him is next. Surely the MFF, of many hundreds of billions, also serves for convergence and competition? My second question is this: if the Minister confirms this, then convergence and competition are also a form of stabilisation. Then why should there be another separate discussion, at least in other countries, about stabilisation alongside convergence and competition, which are already in the MFF? In other words, you can achieve these two objectives within the MFF without a separate instrument, to use that word instead of "eurozone budget"? You don't need the euro area budget for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u105	I do not want to deny Mr Van Rooijen and the Prime Minister the opportunity to debate each other. I do not know if that debate will be forthcoming, but otherwise we will undoubtedly be discussing it in one of our debates on Europe. Why am I saying that the ball is in the right place in the playing field? Well, because it goes inside the MFF. I think that was a real wish of the entire Chamber. It is about the subjects that we are trying to stimulate all the time in Europe: reform, convergence, competition. I think Mr Van Rooijen agrees with that. That is exactly what it says in that text. The finance ministers are now being tapped to think about this. In this case, we are going to do so for the countries of the euro area. Let's be honest, too. If you look at the mechanisms that exist, when you look at the agricultural policy, and especially when you look at the cohesion funds, then I can see the conditionality involved. I am not saying that it will succeed, but I would like to take the opportunity to reiterate this conditionality here as well, with the opportunity to do so as a guarantee not to do so better than we have dealt with under the current MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u106	We all know that Macron has sparked the debate on the euro area budget, with many hundreds of billions. After that, he was supported by Germany in the summer, in Luxembourg. Now that's not outside the MFK anymore, but in there. It would start small, Macron said, but after that it could also rise considerably. Juncker also said that stabilisation is still in our multi-year draft budget, possibly 50 billion. Why is there a need for a separate instrument for the euro area countries within the MFF? And how are you going to finance that? By way of payments? By way of own resources? That's a weird situation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u107	I also said last week... I am truly surprised that this discussion is now taking place; I say this in all courtesy and friendship towards Mr Van Rooijen. Stabilisation is simply out; it is out of that text. Read the text of the Heads of Government again; I would really like to ask Mr Van Rooijen that. It's not about stabilisation; that's exactly what we didn't want. It's not about a free floating pot of money. It's playing inside the MFF. That is exactly what we wanted and what Mr Van Rooijen wanted; that is what we agreed. And now it's about convergence and competition. The coalition agreement contains a short passage which literally states that we are not in favour of a stabilisation mechanism, with fiscal capacity in brackets. Then there will be a number of longer passages, which deal with the need to reform, introduce conditionality and ensure convergence. With that in hand and with that as my assignment, I can only be satisfied with the way that ball is now in place, by the way, with the warning of course to look closely and actively cooperate in how that will look next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u108	We have the MFF for many hundreds of billions; that's what's coming for the next seven years. It can focus excellently on convergence and competition at the expense of agriculture and cohesion funds. Why do we need to create a separate instrument for euro area countries within the MFF that was first outside the MFF? This is almost the same as the total, because 85% of these euro area countries are made up of those countries. This instrument also contributes only to the euro area countries, not to those few other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u109	The interesting thing is that there has actually been relatively little convergence within those euro area countries. Check the numbers again. That is only limited and there is just another assignment for that. What I do agree with Mr Van Rooijen on, but that is exactly why we have said that this must be done within the MFF is that this does not affect the cabinet's commitment to bring three things into the MFF discussion. We don't want to spend more. In other words, we accept that we are net contributors, but we must remain in line with the other net contributors. That's one. Two: we want to modernise that budget significantly. This means that we simply need to spend more on issues such as innovation, immigration and possibly climate; let me say, on 21st century subjects. And we also want more conditionality. Frankly, I would like to take this opportunity with both hands to link it to conditionality, because I am simply not satisfied with how we have regulated conditionality in today's MFF. I think Mr Van Rooijen agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u110	Finally, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u111	No, Mr. Van Rooijen, you've really tried to make your point three times. I'm afraid you didn't get the answer you were hoping for, but I think you got enough room. Mrs Leijten, preferably twice, because I am looking at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u112	There will be a euro area budget and there has never been a statement from the Chamber that the Chamber wanted it to. If the Minister says that he is very surprised because he is doing exactly what the Chamber always wanted, then I would like an overview from the Minister of when the Chamber voted in favour of a euro area budget, whether inside or outside the MFF. I would like to have that overview before the debate we have after Christmas. He can send us that overview of when the Chamber has actually agreed to a euro area budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u113	I must also say to Mrs Leijten in all honesty that I think we have always agreed on a lot of things. I am truly surprised, truly surprised, that it is not satisfied with the text of the Finance Ministers and apparently again with the text of the Heads of Government. I mean that sincerely, because that is exactly what we wanted with regard to debt restructuring. As far as the backstop is concerned, that is exactly what we wanted with regard to the first reduction of risks. As regards the instrument within the euro area budget, i.e. within the MFF, it is decided that it is therefore within the MFF. That is a win anyway, because that was completely different in the Sorbonne speech and later in the Mesebergpapers. There's also that it's not about stabilisation. The whole word "stabilization" is no longer in use. It's about convergence and competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u114	Those words 'convergence' and 'competition' are magical; they are simply other words for'stabilization', because we in the Netherlands are not allowed to use that word. If the Minister says a few times in the debate: I am truly surprised; then that seems very insincere. But I am truly surprised at the naivety of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, because they think you have France in the corner when you get a euro area budget in the multi-annual framework. That's where they're cheering. There will be a euro area budget and they have won it in the Netherlands. We're just trapped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u115	I also find it almost disrespectful to the Chamber how semantic games are played here about a euro area budget. We no longer call it that and so it is no longer a euro area budget. It remains a pot of money only for the euro countries. My question in the first term was how the Minister intends to sell this to the non-euro countries, because they also contribute to the EU budget and their money is therefore partly used for euro countries only. In other words, these non-euro countries are not going to take that and before you know it, the euro area budget is being lifted from the MFF and fed by euro-area countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u116	Here, too, for the sake of precision: who has been in the discussion of the Finance Ministers? There were also the outs; the non-eurozone countries were in that discussion. Who was at the summit of Heads of Government? Those who are members of the euro area and those who are not. This is a statement by all the Heads of Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u117	I don't think this minister was there, because he got himself fucked in the suit. That's the bottom line. A pot of money will only be earmarked for euro countries for competition and convergence because the euro has failed, because it would ensure convergence and it has not done so. Now we are going to transfer money to those euro area countries that are lagging behind in order to force that convergence. It's called a transfer union, and you and the entire Chamber were strongly opposed to it, but you signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u118	No, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna start a step early. Let me return to the studies that have been published on this subject, even last year. I believe that it was the University of Tilburg that explained it finely that there is virtually no country that has benefited so much from the European Union and benefited so much from the euro as the Netherlands. That is not my conclusion, which is the conclusion of independent researchers. See also the analogy with the Brexit I'm about to come up with. I do agree with Mr Van Dijck that it is wise to think about this. I really mean that. But of course it depends on the design and you then have a very complicated discussion about the size of the overall MFF budget. I agree with Mr Van Dijck, which is a relevant discussion. That does not make it unwise to want to have this discussion. Mr. Chairman. I come to a number of other European issues. Mr Bruins asked whether public authorities and entrepreneurs would be prepared for the Brexit as much as possible. I'm looking for Mr Bruins, but I don't see him. This is, at least, for the Acts: we will continue to prepare and we will continue to appeal to the business community. We also do this with a number of ministers on a regular basis. It is true that very limited use has been made of the jar we have created. At the same time, the entrepreneurs who trade with England and whom I speak are very aware of what is coming towards them. Then Mr Slootweg asked for France and I believe that Mr Van Rooijen is still early on in Italy. Our views on compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact are absolutely clear. The Commission is first and foremost concerned with Italy and also with France, but my views on this subject are also unchanged. Mr Van Rooijen then asked at what rate quantitative expansion would be reduced. There he knows the dilemma of my role and knows the responsibilities that lie with the ECB. The ECB has announced that it will stop purchasing new bonds from January and continue to reinvest in the bonds already purchased. That is part of monetary policy. The ECB shall be independent. That is what I can say. Mr President, that brings me to the other block. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a subject which has also been discussed with the Secretary of State and which Mrs De Vries rightly referred to, namely the inheritance and gift tax and the setback in the estimates. I think the Secretary of State has explained in detail in the AO's how he wants to fix the operational side. It has his and also my particular attention, but I have already said that unfortunately this has not happened quickly enough in the past year. We just have to be honest about that. Mrs De Vries also asked about the estimates: what is going on here and should this perhaps still be investigated? To be honest, I think that is a sensible idea. So I will consider who could best do that. I should ask an independent agency or an independent body to do so. Maybe I can buy some more time to figure out which agency would do that best. In my view, this is precisely why Mrs De Vries is calling for attention to be given to this: we must be sure that the declarations made correspond or correspond almost entirely with what the public authorities are entitled to. This is a separate matter from the operational problem. I think her question went in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u119	I am grateful for the fact that good research will be carried out. I think that's also necessary, because at least we're divisive about the numbers. The following is also important to us. In 2017, there were problems in collecting the inheritance and gift tax. Afterwards, the estimate and the way in which it is estimated have been adjusted and there have been adjustments. What we as House of Representatives want to see is what was not collected in 2017 in order to be able to check that it does come in eventually. I wonder how the Minister intends to solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u120	Mrs De Vries is right to make it even more precise, because you could actually say that there are three types of problem. The first is just collecting the amounts. As you can see, the IRS is once again lagging behind. Again, that's really disappointing. We're working on that with man and power, but it's just not going well enough. For the details of this, I would like to refer back to the debate with the Secretary of State. The second piece, which Mrs De Vries is right to ask for when interrupting, is: can the piece you are lagging behind actually actually get in? Of this, the assessment is now correct, but that could be a question that we are also very much involved with. The third question is perhaps the most fundamental long-term question: is there something going on with the inheritance and gift tax, regardless of the operational problem? I do not have a guarantee, but I do have the assurance that the assessment report shows that I refer back to that, too, that we in the Ministry generally have a sensible estimate. I have understood Mrs De Vries in such a way that she says: it is justified to stick in this again. So that's what I'm telling her. In January, I will come back with a letter in which I will make a proposal on who could help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u121	Thank you for that commitment. It's fine to put that back in January. I would also ask you to indicate what will then be investigated and how it will be examined, so that it is clear and meets the questions we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u122	Yes, of course. It will be the second half of January rather than the first half of January, but I think we can take that much time. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg was right to ask another point: how do I look at the debt burden in the private sector? Honestly: we are rightly critical of the budget deficit in some other Member States, but in some of those Member States you can see the strange phenomenon that, although they have much higher public debt, they also have much lower private debt. We have very long balances in the Netherlands and hundreds of billions of debts in our households. That is precisely why the previous cabinet chose to bet on the LTV and to prevent high mortgage debts. I think that has been a very sensible step. We already see part of the effect and we will see part of the effect. We're gonna have to go through with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u123	The difference between what the European Commission recommends, 133%, and the small 220 we had in 2017 is large. Does the Minister have the idea that this LTV is sufficient and that this is only on the housing market? Or are there other places where you could encourage people to pay off debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u124	That is a valid point. It has my full attention and I refer to the bank letter from earlier this week to draw people's attention to debts, to ensure that they do not get out of the rain and to remind them of their own responsibility. I am pleased that banks really encourage people with redemption-free mortgages to think about it at least. That's what I've exchanged with the Chamber before. I would like to give the following undertaking to Mr Slootweg. I have already indicated in the agenda that I will continue to monitor what is happening, but I will tell him that I share this with the Chamber every six months or every year. Let me put it this way. We believe that we, the Netherlands, have taken a very big step forward. The previous cabinet really deserves the credits for that. It is a very big step, given where the Netherlands comes from. The other side of the story is that no other country in Europe, except Denmark, has such high private debts. Others, recently the IMF, therefore also remind us of the need to continue to think about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u125	Last question, Mr President. Then I have the idea that... Does he take up the point that besides households they are also companies where the debt ratio stands out against other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u126	Let me take that. I would like to say once again that the vast majority of the total debt mountain in the Netherlands, at least for households, is caused by its own home. Mr Bruins asked if I agree with him that there is a responsibility to implement the changes in pensions. I very much agree with him. My real observation is that the cabinet, and Minister Koolmees in particular, has put incredibly much energy into reaching a pension agreement. What has been put on the table from the cabinet, both with regard to the contract and with regard to everything that has been added, was very generous. I have also experienced it as very disappointing that some people at that table apparently did not find this good enough. This means that the cabinet still has a mandate from the government agreement on the average premium and a number of other issues. Mr Slootweg asked about the elderly at the Tax Office and personal contact. That is a valid point. The Tax Administration also supports parties that help citizens with tax and surcharge cases. Think of the digital knowledge network and learning modules. In addition, in 2019, the Tax Administration will offer a train-de-trainer session for one trainer per assisting party. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller asked about legal aid and the Van der Meer Committee. That is a valid point, which I had an earlier exchange of views not only with my colleague for Legal Protection, but also with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Minister Dekker has also sent a letter recently. I believe that on 17 January the Chamber will talk to him during the AO Legal Aid and I should not preach to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u127	I'm looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u128	I have one more question to answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u129	Then I would very much like the Minister to conclude first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u130	I have another question in the category of others. That is Mr Sneller's question about service cars in the Defense Department. Let me be very honest about that: there he did get to the limits of my parate knowledge. Here's the deal. For reasons of efficiency, it has been decided to replace Defence service cars every two years instead of every four years. This avoids increasing operating costs due to the age of the vehicles. The business case has recently been recalibrated, resulting in the revenue budget exchange of service vehicles adjusted downwards by exactly 59.2 million. Well, that's what Mr. Sneller can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr Van Rooijen was first, but perhaps Mr Sneller has a question on this last point and then it might be wise to do so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u132	I think we would have had that business case in a benefit-charge system even better. But do I really understand that after four years, operating costs are so much higher that they now have to replace cars every two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u133	I already indicated that some modesty fits me when it comes to leasing contracts at the Department of Defense. I do not know whether I am making Mr Sneller entirely happy with another letter on this subject. It seems that after two years of replacement the contract will be cheaper. I don't know exactly how many hours the DOD executives spend in that car; that might have something to do with it. If Mr Sneller wants to know more about this, I have to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u134	I would like to know much more about it, but I do not want to do it to this Minister to return to it in the second term. So we're gonna find another way, but it really surprised me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u135	Let me turn to the Minister's answer to Mr Bruins' question. He defends the coalition agreement with an individual system. There won't be, but I'm not going to go into that now. What I continue to notice is that I have already said in a previous interruption that the Prime Minister offered, in the hope of reaching agreement between the parties, a reduction of between 100% and 104% for pensions. Let that be exactly the objective of my draft initiative that will be returned to this Chamber in January. The Prime Minister didn't get his way...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u136	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u137	...and the cabinet didn't and withdrew the proposal. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this proposal of 50PLUS in the cabinet and in the coalition groups? Well, at least we'll be done with that. It also means that tax revenues do not decrease...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mr. Van Rooijen, your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u139	I have to sum up the answer with "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u140	Back to what, as I understand it, was a commitment from the Minister when it comes to the surcharges. The reason why I raised this point in the context of the Autumn note is that this year's purchasing power, especially for senior citizens, is somewhat disappointing. Then you'll see what else you can do. One of the points is that we just see that surcharges are missed by the elderly. Do I understand why the Minister's commitment is that we are going to look with organisations and then something wider than just the elderly organisations, in which we can train them? There are already digital modules that many of these organisations still experience as too cold; they actually want more direct contact with teachers from the Tax Administration and that this training takes place via a representative per social organisation and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u141	That's the idea. The objective is and must be that older people can also continue to find their way to the Tax Administration. I immediately had to think about the discussion we had with each other about cash versus online payments. My impression is that this palette of measures is indeed working. What I can do is ask the Secretary of State to look at the impact of this in the course of 2019 and whether this actually solves the problems. My proposal to Mr Slootweg would be that we should really go ahead with this first and also see if it will be effective. So already saying that more is needed, I can't do it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u142	I noticed I really needed a bunch of words. I wasn't asking for anything like that anymore. I'd like to see if I understood the Minister correctly. From the Tax Office someone is actually trained within the civil society organisations, and they can train people further down the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u143	It's a two-stage missile. There are parties that help citizens with their tax returns. There is indeed physical contact here. I think that is exactly what Mr Slootweg is looking for. The IRS supports these organizations. And what we're going to do now is make sure that we also train someone by helping party who is also maximum capable of helping the elderly. Then you could say "you're still one step away, because it's circumstantial," but there is human contact. And that, in my view, is exactly what Mr Slootweg is looking for, not so much for himself as for those who are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u144	This brings you to the end of your first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u145	That's what I thought, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u146	Good. I'll look at the members. We will continue with the second term of office with Mr Van Dijck of the PVV as the first speaker. You will receive one third of the speaking time you requested. So you can all calculate individually how many minutes you get.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u147	The financial spokesmen can do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u148	Very good. I call Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u149	Mr. Chairman. I find it disappointing how little has been said about the problem of purchasing power. As has been said, purchasing power has been lagging behind for decades. In the crisis, people's purchasing power has been further eroded, and now that things are getting better, this Minister of Finance is not giving up at home. Last year we got 0.3% and this year also a lusy 0.3%. Crumbles! Symbol politics! 38% of families can barely live in the Netherlands, in a rich country like the Netherlands. 20% of families, 1.5 million families face payment problems. And the minister looks away. That's what makes people angry. Because they're being ignored. 96% of the Dutch are making progress, he says. Meanwhile, the energy bill goes up, the VAT goes up and the healthcare premium goes up. ING and Pricewise have calculated that an average household will lose €1,000 next year in fixed charges. €1,000 more; they get a couple of tens back from this minister and they should be happy about that. The Netherlands is in place fifteen in Europe when it comes to net disposable income. Even France is above us. And Italy, Spain and Portugal are just below us. The Netherlands is just miserable when it comes to net disposable income. This cabinet isn't doing anything about it. Mr. Chairman. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to reverse the VAT increase on messages, to reduce rents by 15% and to freeze the healthcare premium for 2019 and to use the budget surplus to cover this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u150	Mr. Chairman. The budget surplus is 8 billion this year and it is 8 billion next year. This Minister of Finance simply performs to raise 8 billion too much tax money, while half of the Dutch can barely make ends meet. That arrogance, we have to get rid of it. We need to get that money back to the citizens, back in the wallet. First of all, we do not see the usefulness of the 500 million in CO reduction in the Autumn note. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to reserve EUR 500 million for CO reduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u152	If this 500 million were to be reserved for the energy bill of people who are so sky high, you could still do it under the same heading. Would the PVV still support it to maintain it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u153	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the next motion, now that I've cleared $500 million. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to reverse the reduction in the tax reduction of energy taxes and the shift in the energy tax rates of natural gas and electricity, thereby increasing household energy costs by EUR 450 million, and to use the budget surplus to cover this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u154	And I expect support from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u155	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and also for the commitment to carry out a thorough investigation into the inheritance and gift tax at least as far as we are concerned. I look forward to the letter from the Minister which will be on the subject in January or February, because we believe that this problem really needs to be resolved and we should also be able to check whether the funds agreed on come in. A commitment has also been made in terms of targets. I am also pleased that the outstanding commitments will be clearly defined in future and that we can also look forward to their implementation in the Spring Paper and the Millions Note. Then the point of the cash drawer. I'll wrestle with that. I had asked the Minister if he would indicate that we will not have another problem in 2021 and that there will be a shortage of money in the post that we are already raising money from. So let me just say that I do not want to see that there is a problem there. Finally. I think we have all talked about purchasing power effects, also in relation to the energy bill and the climate agreement. Mr Snels van GroenLinks will be tabling a motion on this, which we have also co-signed, because we also see that there is just a lot of uncertainty among people in the country. People who live in a older house already have a very high mortgage and think: should I start borrowing again, what should I do when I have to replace my central heating boiler, which is at the end of his life? But also people who drive an old car and have to go to work. So we think it is important that we also look at measures to keep it affordable for people and thus retain the support for the measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u156	Thank you. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. The debate on the Autumn note is in fact always a rather curious debate; it is about the current budget. That's two weeks before 1 January, so we can't change a lot of things. That also almost always means that it will be a more technical debate. What's behind the numbers of those lucky guys? How do they go through the end-of-year margins to the in=terminal? In fact, it is a kind of preparation for the Spring Note, because the Minister is right: that is actually the real decision-making moment. Then we can look at the budget and the policy priorities that really matter to the Netherlands. So it's a bit of a crazy debate. At the same time, this is also the week of the climate. I told you, the broad climate law in this Chamber will be defended. We still really hope that there will be an agreement from that cockpit and for climate policy in the longer term. At the same time, Mrs De Vries rightly said that there are concerns about the acceptance of climate policy. This also has to do very much with the cost of the energy bill and the uncertainty that people have. We've been having this debate for a while. We have also tried to change that in the Tax Plan. Coalition groups also regularly make comments that show concerns about the acceptance of climate policy and, therefore, especially about the somewhat unfair cost-sharing between households and businesses. That is why it is important for the cabinet to really reflect on concrete measures to ensure that the climate policy is supported. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas climate policy is a priority for the Cabinet;]] [[considers it important to share the burden of climate policy fairly;]] [[noting that at the beginning of 2019 we know the exact climate challenges, have the CPB overlay of the income effects of the climate agreement and therefore know whether this leads to purchasing power problems for households, for example through the energy account;]] [[calls on the Government to make preparations to take measures to compensate, if desired, households for the costs of climate policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Nijboer, Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Sneller, Mr Stoffer and Mr Slootweg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u158	For those who value Christmas on symbolism these days: the motion is signed by the opposition and the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u159	That's good. Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u160	Those who do feel like symbolism may also sign such a motion. Because what exactly does it say? What are we doing specifically for people, I ask GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u161	The whole concrete task of this cabinet is to really start thinking about what measures we can take to compensate for the purchasing power effects of households. That's what we're all worried about. I have fought hard myself to achieve very concrete measures by 2019. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved, but it must be done in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u162	As an opposition, we fought hard not to allow the tax increase to continue, not to allow the VAT increase to continue and to stop the tax reduction for multinationals. None of that worked. We're all riding on a blind wall near this coalition. Then tabling a motion requesting action seems to me a little weak if you simply have budget rights and can also say: we are just putting some of the surplus in place to meet the energy bill. That's a one-time thing, sure. But every year we can decide once again if the government does not do enough. Can I conclude from the fact that GroenLinks is putting down this vague, symbolic motion that it will not support concrete proposals from, for example, the Labour Party and the SP to actually do something and to reserve money as a concession?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u163	I am actually surprised by Mrs Leijten's question. In my view, it was my group that really tried to bring about concrete measures and changes in the Tax Plan when dealing with the Tax Plan. At that time, I was strongly criticised by Mrs Leijten's party that I should not attempt to reduce the energy bill of households with the coalition. So you can't blame me for being all about symbolism? I am trying to achieve concrete results for households day in, day in. That is what I am doing and what I am asking the cabinet, now that we do not have a decision-making moment, is: now, in the coming period, go ahead with concrete measures to ensure that the energy bill of households, if it rises too fast, is actually compensated. I think that is why I am in politics: trying to achieve real results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u164	Mrs Leijten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u165	We have all tried to adapt the Tax Plan in its treatment. I have just said about all the proposals we have made: it is a blind wall that you run into. This is not yet an answer to my question, but I suspect the worst, namely that GroenLinks will not support the concrete decision-making measures put forward by the Labour Party and the SP. Those measures can indeed be taken now. They can be taken into account in any debate, because we have budget rights, but with the Navy note altogether, because then we will discuss the surplus as we are now. Now there is a vague motion to do something in the future, without guarantees. We don't know what year either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u166	I am looking at this blind wall that Mrs Leijten is talking about. I have strong disagreements with this cabinet on many issues, but it is not that I have noticed that the coalition is not sometimes trying to reach agreements, for example, on changes to the Tax Plan. That's important. In my view, this is how we can try to achieve concrete results. As far as the amendments are concerned, I am really looking forward to the Minister's reply, as to whether this can be done in these last two weeks before 1 January. Then I'll look into that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u167	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I call Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for a number of commitments, particularly with regard to inheritance and gift tax. At the time of taking office, many issues have been raised by different parties which are unclear. It didn't feel right from the start. I welcome any commitment that leads to this being put right better. I am also very pleased with the commitments about the fill-outs, the volunteers who fill out tax forms. This year, too, we have seen that mainly the group of older people has progressed slightly less than we hoped. This might be a way to see where space is. We're gonna take care of the Navy's note, and then you're gonna think of falling leaves. The paper therefore deals with the changing climate. For the CDA, it remains important that this is not something that is only borne by government regulations. We would also like incentives within the financial sector to be right to get good green investment off the ground. Hence the next motion, co-signed by my green-bond partner Eppo Bruins. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still many obstacles to achieving a fully-fledged market for green financial products;]] [[Whereas the financial sector can play an important role in achieving the climate objectives;]] [[Calls on the Government to explore ways of promoting the market for sustainable financing and investments and to send this to the Chamber by summer 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u169	I wish the Minister a good Christmas!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr. Chairman. I have listened carefully to the Minister, of course, I always do, but I haven't heard anything about compensating for the energy bill, I haven't heard anything about why the Dutch live in more poverty and have a worse wage position than other Europeans. No answer, no insight, no explanations. I have not heard the Minister's question as to where the rise in wages is going. When everyone says "we're over the height of the economy," do we get that wage increase next year? No, but the economy is in good shape, the rich budget is in good shape, so this minister is going to sleep quietly. I can tell you that this does not apply to many people. That is why we have proposed the release of 1 billion to accommodate households in their high energy costs. No answer, nothing. It is poverty trump card, in this case policy poverty trump card. I have two motions. The first one is about the care premium. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, over the past 12 years, 9.6 billion has been transferred to the Budgetary Framework for Health and that these funds have been spent on purposes other than those for which they were included in the budget;]] [[noting that the under-exhaustment at the BKZ has since become structural and is also used by the government for, for example, phasing out the Groninger gas;]] [[Considers that it severely restricts the Court's budget law if the government and the Court are not allowed to indicate how structural under-utilisation can be used or how occasional under-utilisation can be used;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the Chamber to have an equal budgetary position on under-spending on the budgetary frameworks financed by contributions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u171	Then this government will reserve 500 million for a CO fund, and I have serious concerns about that when it comes to our supervision. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the government reserves EUR 500 million in a CO fund without any justification for this reservation being available to the Chamber;]] [[considers that the Court should be able to monitor closely whether and how this EUR 500 million is used and whether this is the most efficient use;]] [[calls on the government to send the Chamber an overview of the intended expenditure for decision-making on the use of the funds so that it can exchange views on this matter before making irreversible use of funds from the fund;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u172	That leaves me with one point to make. Of course I wish everyone a Merry Christmas, but above all I wish that day in and day out of every Member of Parliament, if it is right, try to change policy. You can do that by dealing and wheeling and weakening all kinds of proposals, because you hope that the coalition will be in a good mood, or just by pointing the direction and showing that things have to be different. We started in May on climate justice. If I hear everyone now about the need to be fair, I am glad that we started to do so in May, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u173	Before you leave, Mr Slootweg has one more question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u174	It is a justified remark from Mrs Leijten that I did not wish my colleagues any good Christmas. In that sense, touché. But I did have one more question. I understand your discontent with energy taxation and so on, but it is true that the SP election programme also increased energy taxation for families. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u175	I don't know exactly how many. We had climate measures, but the opposite was the increase in the minimum wage and a huge reduction in all kinds of other things. The CDA always wants us to outline the overall picture...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u176	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u177	... and mention the tax increase of this government for low incomes. Here's to it. But with us, purchasing power increased even more than with GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u178	In any case, public finances, which were completely out of line, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u179	In 60 years, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u180	In any case, your energy tax went up by 500 million. And I'm glad that by way of correction you indicate: you have to tell the whole story. I am also grateful that you have indicated that the burden on middle income is also considerably reduced by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u181	I didn't see that load relief. I've especially seen a higher discount. The tax reduction is particularly important for high incomes. We have already crossed swords on that. What we did, at least, was also to distribute the tax on energy more fairly. Companies also paid for this and I have never seen a proposal from the CDA. In fact, the CDA did not, and I see Buma taking different positions every day than he is voting here in the Chamber, or in the government agreement or in the budget or in the election programme of the same CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u182	Thank you, Mrs Leijten. I call Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u183	Mr. Chairman. I will rethink my role and skills as mediator. Thank you to the Minister for replying. We've come a lot further than the General Financial Reviews when we're talking about preparing for the future. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for a number of commitments. We'll get more information from VWS colleagues at the beginning of next year about the rising healthcare costs and how we're gonna handle that, while ensuring accessibility. Our colleague from Economic Affairs will provide us with information on climate costs if we do nothing. They're hugely high. Mrs Leijten corrected me that in box K there are 117 seats this afternoon, so I would have liked to correct that. I wish the Minister a great deal of wisdom for later today when he talks to OCW colleagues about stable budget implementation. I have one motion to prepare us for the crisis, or at least to do the preparations right. And I have heard no response from the Minister to the question whether he chooses his own inspiration for Rocky or Roald, Balboa or Amundsen. But it didn't matter that much either. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is currently experiencing an economic boom, but that an economic change is conceivable in the foreseeable future;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of the lessons of the previous crisis, it is wise to prepare a package of measures to stabilise the economy and the budget, so that we are well prepared in the event of an economic downturn;]] [[calls on the Minister of Finance to identify effective policy options and reforms, consisting of both pluses and minuses, in preparation for a future downturn or economic crisis, given past experience in the broad review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller, Mr Bruins, Mr Slootweg and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u184	Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his clarity about defence: not the cars, but the statements. And I have missed the date of entry into force of the new legal aid system, and how exactly that should be done. But I think I was distracted for a moment when that came up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u185	It could be just like that. I call Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u186	I'm all over it, Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the cabinet has the economic wind in its back. Because when you read the Autumn note, it turns out that targets have not been fulfilled, you can read about 0.5 billion for the climate agreement, which is not supported by any support in the debate, and 3.7 billion for promised expenditure for this year, with a very thin justification why that has not been spent. I wrote down what the Minister said about this: we were late in the day, there was a lead time, we were in a hurry. Yes, he knew that when the budget was presented and dealt with, and I do not think this is very convincing arguments. Of course, there may be under-utilisation here or there, but now there is under-utilisation across the whole budget, across all expenditure categories and all expenditure frameworks. They're in care, where there are really big problems and waiting lists, but also with Infrastructure and with Defense. This is happening everywhere. I have pointed out in the course of dealing with the Millions Note, the problem is getting bigger and will become even bigger next year. Nevertheless, as a constructive member of the opposition, I am always prepared to help. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas at present there is no understanding of what part of the under-exhaustment of EUR 3.7 billion is structural;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make clear which part of the under-exhaustment is structural and to use it to complete the mission on the budget of Education, Culture and Science,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Leijten, Mr Snels and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u187	That would help a lot. The problem of this task is then off the table, and we have also seen and deployed part of the structural budget. And I think you can if you look at this. Finally, Mr President, there is the amendment tabled by Mr Asscher and I. I assume that's how we'll be judged. But I would like to point out once again that this is better substantiated than the 0.5 billion that the cabinet has allocated. Furthermore, the social need is evident, because several group chairmen, including coalition parties, have the alarm about people being unable to pay the energy bill anymore. And since we have used exactly the same cover as the cabinet did for the 0.5 billion and it is an occasional amount, I expect this amendment to receive a positive opinion from the cabinet. It's an occasional amount. If it's structural, you have it every year, and if it's incidental, you have it anyway. So I expect it to have a positive opinion, or that the cabinet says, "Room," you vote on it. Because the Minister was right to say that the Chamber has the right to budget. In both situations, I hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u188	Mr Slootweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u189	Can Mr Nijboer also give me a hand in the election programme of the Labour Party? How much was the energy tax increased by you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u190	I think the energy tax will go up, also in the years to come. I fully support that. We have also honestly said that people will pay more if we all want to green up, including in the tax system. There are two huge differences. One. We want to ask the companies more. Now consumers have to pay half and businesses the other half. We want to bring the ratio to 20%-80%. Two. We want to avoid the lowest incomes as much as possible. That is exactly what is not happening with this proposal. Now the lowest incomes have to pay exactly €60, just like the highest incomes. I think that's unfair, and that's where I come across in the rifle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u191	It's always nice to have some insights after that, but let me give you a hand. For families, according to the Labour Party's electoral programme, the energy tax would be increased by 700 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u192	Mr Nijboer, would you like to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u193	That doesn't go into the point I just made. I fully recognise that we are raising taxes at the highest incomes. In fact, we are even in favour of a 60% rate of income above €150,000. I know the CDA is against that, but I just support it. That's a lot more than that. What I find only unfair is that everyone, and especially the lowest incomes, who are often in rental homes and can't move their energy costs at all, will receive such an account from the Cabinet even before the climate agreement is concluded. That also makes sense to me, because we have also tabled and covered an amendment to the General Financial Reviews. We said we didn't want to. This proposal was not included in our electoral programme either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u194	Thank you. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u195	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I welcome the prudent policy of this Minister of Finance, and I am pleased that, in addition to investing in the public sector and reducing the burden, we are also reducing public debt. For "a'j not sucky bin, bi'j der so through," they say on the Veluwe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u196	What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u197	If you're not thrifty, you'll be right through it for the stenographers. Try writing that in dialect. In my first term, I drew attention to the decline in growth and the Dutch guarantees and what exactly they mean, what risk is attached to them. In my second term, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to add a beautiful page to the Blue Book. And since I call the Blue Book, I expect a generous commitment from the Minister and I do not need to make a motion. A beautiful page with at aggregated level a bar chart of all the guarantees given by the Dutch government and DNB on the Eurosystem, the IMF, the EIB, the EBRD and the ESM, in a multiannual perspective since 2008. Then we can well steer the weather down from those guarantees to the pre-crisis level. The Blue Book, I said, Minister. Finally, I recall that I have put my name under a number of motions, such as those tabled by Mr Sneller, to map out policy options for a possible next crisis, to possibly compensate households for the rising energy bill and for those of my green ally, Mr Slootweg, on possible options. I don't have any other motions of my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u198	Thank you, Mr Bruins. Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u199	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I had two more questions that I don't think have been answered. First of all, we are in favour of a reduction in the landlord's tax, much if possible, but with a binding agreement. This can be done by linking this reduction in the landlord's tax to a double agreement by the corporations. This has a flywheel effect for sustainability, both for old and new homes. It is an improvement on the climate objective. So my question is whether the Minister would like to answer that and perhaps undertake to look into it further, because I think that this is also a thought in the corporate world that may deserve support. If the government takes a step, they may be prepared to attach their own obligation to it. That could appeal to the Minister; then he will have a great earning effect. The second question we had asked was whether he would like to answer our plea to raise the legal minimum wage by 3%. I have referred to the many countries that lead us, with large deficits: America, England, Italy, Spain and recently France, with 10%. We are one of the few countries with a large surplus with Germany, at least a substantial surplus. Then we should at least see if we can improve purchasing power by increasing the minimum wage and thereby the AOW and the welfare allowance. I think that would be very helpful. I would ask the Minister to answer that question. But in this context, in the second term, I also have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, inter alia, the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy and France have recently increased the minimum wage by substantial percentages;]] [[Whereas all these countries have a huge budget deficit of several tens to many hundreds of billions of euros or dollars per year;]] [[Whereas the development of the social minimum and the minimum wage in the Netherlands can hardly or not keep pace with the increase in the cost of living;]] [[calls on the government to increase the legal minimum wage by 3% in the shortest possible time, on top of regular indexation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u200	I think it is a nice motion, but what strikes me is that there is no cover for this motion. That is strange for a former executive of the Ministry of Finance. How would this motion be paid for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u201	We have tabled an amendment to the budget which provided for a substantial cover by using the expat scheme for this purpose and also abolishing the low income advantage. That gave more than full coverage. It was nevertheless rejected by the Chamber. We are now starting with a motion to promote thinking about it, because we are coming back with an amendment to do so at the appropriate time. But we had the cover. Part of it is still present, because the expat scheme still exists in part and the low income advantage still exists. So, in the spirit of this motion, you can think about the cover I have already mentioned, and perhaps you will consider the motion favourably. But we're coming up with the amendment again. We're just hanging in there. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u202	I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u203	Mr. Chairman. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive response and certainly for his benevolent attitude to reducing public debt further next year. He was still worried about the coalition. I could do it on his Veluws, but Mr Bruins said it nicely, so I think he already has the first supporter in the coalition. So I'm totally confident that it's gonna be okay. But I've missed one answer, Mr. Chairman. I have made a fervent plea for LNG and I have not heard that it has been taken over. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution on this, because then I will have a firm answer and I hope I will have a positive answer. All the people who are doing that certainly hope so. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government has announced unexpectedly that the LNG refund scheme cannot be extended;]] [[Whereas LNG trucks do contribute to the sustainability of freight traffic and noise reduction;]] [[noting that there is currently no more sustainable alternative and that the use of LNG is a necessary step in the development of bio-LNG;]] [[noting the importance of supporting sustainability initiatives;]] [[calls on the Government to use the under-exhaustment of the LNG refund scheme to extend it;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35095-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u204	I noted in the motion that it was important to support sustainability initiatives. Certainly as long as there is no agreement on climate change, I should like to add that, but that is not in the motion for a resolution. I'm gonna give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u205	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that the Minister can gather all the motions. Or can you start already and wait only for this last motion? That's good, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u206	Mr President, thank you. I'll start with a few things that remain. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs De Vries that I fully agree with her summary of the commitment to examining what is going on with the estimate. I think it makes sense to make that commitment in the direction of Mr Slootweg, because he also asked for it and I did not explicitly mention it in the first term. So I still do. In the direction of those who asked for attention again on the increase in wages and purchasing power, I would like to say that both of them are in fact included. Once again, that is without guarantees, but that is indeed in sight and foreseen, not only by me, but also by the planning agency, which I think is even more important for the Chamber. The planning agency says in absolute independence that this is foreseen. But again, this is without guarantees on my part. Indeed, I forgot to tell Mr Sneller once again that, like him, I am very much in favour of thinking about reforms. If I had not responded too enthusiastically to this in the Financial Reviews, I will make it up to you immediately. Mr. Sneller also mentioned boxing. I must confess to the heart that my qualities in this area should not be overestimated. I've never competed. I think I already said once in an AO that I started judo after my 40th and I am now in the proud possession of the yellow band. But actually, I'm more of a skater, a rather mediocre one. Furthermore, many have pointed out the need to tell the whole story. I thought that would be wise. Mr Bruins asked about the Blue Book and had very specific ideas on how to look like that one page. That's what I'm gonna do along those lines. Again, it is also in the documents of the Millions Note. But I do understand very well that, if you think this is an important subject, this is a more convenient way to review it. I'd be happy to tell him. I would like to say to Mr Van Rooijen about the landlord levy: no, I think it is up to the Minister of EZK, inside or outside his climate cockpit, to look at the whole range of measures. I can't make a commitment on that right now. At the minimum wage, I will return to the motions. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, that has left me with everything that was left and has had all the additional questions. I'm moving on to giving my appreciation of the motions. The first motion, the one in part No. 3, belongs to Mr Van Dijck. This one I must advise against; that will not surprise him. It is not wise, because purchasing power is already improving and there is no coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u207	The motion in part No. 3 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u208	Yes, this motion is dissuaded. The motion in part No. 4 I must advise against, because the CO reduction is indeed necessary. I have also stated this in detail in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u209	The motion in part No. 4 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u210	The motion in part No. I should also advise against five. There's no cover on the load side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u211	The motion in part No. 5 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u212	That motion is indeed dissuaded. The motion in part No. Six, I think, is wise. As far as I am concerned, the motion strikes the nail on its head, but also leaves the room to appreciate. I didn't notice the symbolism when I read it immediately, but I do share that kind of symbolism is important. I would therefore like to leave this motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u213	The motion in part No. 6 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u214	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm the motion in part no. 7 by Mr Slootweg and Mr Bruins. This one's about the green bond stand. They formulate it differently, but according to this is what they mean. I can leave this motion for a resolution to the Chamber, because I fully understand that this could help. I have been thinking about whether this can be done within this time limit, but I suspect that this will work. I can very well follow the thinking of the substance. The motion in part No. 7 I would therefore like to leave the Chamber of Appeal. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 8 by Mrs Leijten. I'm gonna have to dissuade this one. That can't be a real surprise, given the debate we're having. Of course, the Chamber deals with the legal basis of the various budget articles, but I must advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 9. In addition, it is important to be equally specific. The cabinet wants to take this for granted, but I cannot do it at this stage. If I can understand the motion in such a way that, at the time when the cabinet implements it, there will be the dialogue that is always there, of course, when it is implemented, I fully agree with it. But I tried to explain in the first period that it is sensible, prudent and pure to create such a reserve when you think that the state of the crop requires it and that there are a lot of uncertainties, but that you cannot yet give it. If Mrs Leijten means that we are going to do so at the time when we are going to make money out of it and spend it, then I very much agree with her, but at that time I would like to give the various colleagues the opportunity to come up with plans first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u215	The Minister read the motion so well that he saw that there was indeed an 'n' missing, but he managed not to interpret the motion properly, because that is exactly what I am saying, namely that the Chamber could exchange views on this matter before irreversible money was spent from that fund. That says inherently that it is about when the government is actually going to fill that out. So that does not ask for tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or a year from now, but when the government intends to spend money, it also requires that we do not do so in such a way that we get a copy of: we have done this and sorry, you cannot talk about it anymore. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u216	Why did I specifically mark this on this motion? Precisely because we have had the debate we have had. Mrs Leijten, but also Mr Nijboer, I should like to put it this way, criticizing the fact that it has not already been delivered ready-to-use. I think it goes without saying that there should always be room for the debate on the expenditure we are doing. I can also promise that, but I am not going to promise that we will come up with all these plans in January or February. I would really like to leave that with my colleagues in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u217	It doesn't say that either. It merely says that for decision-making on spending, a planned spending, at least what is the plan is shared with the Chamber, so that the Chamber can also say: ho, wait, we think it can be done better or else. Or the Chamber will give the cabinet the blessing for that spending. That's what this motion is about. There's not a single time in it when it has to be. It is simply a question of keeping an eye on how the 500 million is spent in that CO fund and whether it is effective. 'Cause that's what everybody loves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u218	Absolutely, everyone likes that; I noticed that again today. I can leave the motion to judge Chamber, but the cabinet will then also make a proposal to the Chamber by means of supplementary laws. Then the Chamber will have the opportunity to discuss this at that time, but that is also the normal course of action. If we understand each other that way, I can make the motion in part no. 9 so leave judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u219	The motion in part No. 9 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u220	The motion in part No. 9 gets judgment room. On the motion in part No. 10, I'd already taken an advance. Looking more broadly at what you could do if the economic weather actually turns and deepens you into reforms, I think it's wise. I think it should be a two-stage rocket: I will first let the Chamber know at the beginning of the next year how I propose to investigate it and then I will investigate it. Because it's still quite a complicated and delicate piece of work to come up with something that will really help you at a later moment in the future. I do not think that is what Mr Sneller is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u221	But with that reading, the motion is given in part No. 10 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u222	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u223	The motion in part No. 11 by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u224	The motion in part No. 11 I can see somewhere halfway through the operative part, namely up to and including'structural'. The vote will take place tomorrow at 5.30 p.m. So yes to providing insight into the underexhaustment, but given the operative part, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u225	The motion in part No. 11 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u226	Then I think I've arrived at...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u227	The motion in part No. 12 by Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u228	Yes. I must also advise against it. The motion seemed naturally sympathetic at first sight. I thought Mr Van Rooijen was particularly concerned about young people. That was a positive surprise, but then it was also about the AOW, and in general I don't think this is wise. So I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u229	I thought the Minister's comment was omine. Of course we think of the young. But then he said: then it also has consequences for the AOW, those are the elderly. Is that the only reason he's against the legal minimum wage, apart from the link? Are you even in favour of raising the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u230	No, I'm against it in general, because I don't think it's necessary. I just wanted to point out that the fact that Mr Van Rooijen's flag operates here is no surprise that he is particularly hard on the elderly. I thought it was a positive surprise that he would like to look at this intergenerationally, but I think the motion is unwise. I do not think it is necessary in the Netherlands either, given the state of employment and the position of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u231	In particular, I referred to Macron's recent move to increase the statutory minimum wage in France by 10%, bringing it above Dutch. France has a deficit of 3.5% with a surplus of 1. How do we explain to our citizens, especially in view of the climate measures that will come from 2020, that our legal minimum wage is simply frozen, apart from a very small indexation, fortunately due to low inflation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u232	It is really not right what Mr Van Rooijen says. It's just really not right. The Planning Bureau explained today that 95% or 96% of citizens will be making progress next year, following the best observation of the Planning Bureau, by 1.6%. All the figures we have seen on the new agreements made by employers and employees on wages show a positive trend. I would also like to add that, as far as I am concerned, the cabinet has set the right example by also concluding collective agreements which show a clear and significant upward trend for government officials, but also for police and educational staff. So in all courtesy, as Mr Van Rooijen says, it just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u233	Mr Van Rooijen, I would ask you not to reopen another debate. We are now discussing the assessment of motions and unfortunately your motion has been denied judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u234	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make one final point. It wasn't meant to be on January 1st, it wasn't in the motion. It's meant to be from 2020 and now to give the signal to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u235	I have to add that there is no cover for the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u236	The motion in part No. 12 is not recommended. Then the motion to part No. 13 by Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u237	Then the motion to part No. 13 by Mr Stoffer. I understand him, but I would like to say in his direction that this is not a surprise. This is something that has been going on for a long time and that the sector has had to see coming. The measure has also been evaluated and costs are simply not related to benefits. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u238	The motion in part No. 13 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u239	That brings me to the amendment to which Mr Nijboer rightly referred. I have to advise against that, too. If I have read it correctly quickly, on the one hand, revenue and expenditure are mixed up, but we also believe that this CO reduction is necessary. So I must also discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u240	I have to stay cheerful, so I do, but it's twice wrong what the minister says. It is not a mix-up of expenditure and burdens; it is just as the Minister himself does with his budget reserve: book in the Department of Social Affairs purchasing power reserve. That is just an item of expenditure like there are more expenditure items on Social Affairs. The second thing the Minister said is that we really need that fund. No, it comes on top of the reserve that the minister has, exactly according to the same methodology. I find it a little strange that the Minister here in Parliament uses two arguments which are incorrect while we are carrying out our co-legislative task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u241	I maintain both arguments, but I would like to add a third. Then we are back to an earlier part of the debate. Look, the substantive premise here is that something dramatic would go wrong specifically for this group. The essence of my speech has now been twofold. First of all, tell the rediscovered theme of the whole story.I would like to point out that if you look at the pictures where the energy bill gets higher, where the basket of groceries is in, where the care premium is in, it looks good under the line for by far the Dutch next year, says the Planning Bureau. Secondly, I have also been very clear about this: it is the task of the cabinet and of all the others who are sending in that cockpit, to ensure a significant reduction in CO because it is necessary for the climate and to ensure that the burden falls in a proportionate way. And I don't want to anticipate that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u242	I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to withdraw his remark, namely that he maintains the two arguments he uses in this amendment. If he doesn't, I'm about to make an order proposal. It is not right that expenditure should be covered by burdens or that they should be confused. It is simply a valid argument, because I use exactly the same methodology that the Minister uses. It is also wrong that I should take a hold of the reserve proposed by the cabinet. That's just not in the amendment. I do not accept that the Minister is using false arguments towards us as co-legislator. I think the Navy's note is pretty rattling on all sides. "Incidentally-structural" cannot even be explained. We have had an extensive debate here, but I am not going to say that my amendments are not correct. If the minister keeps that going, he's gonna have a big problem with the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u243	Well, that's something to chew on. Then I'm going to name them from the back to the front. I said three things. He will disagree, but I do not think that Mr Nijboer has a discussion on the third point either. On the second point, I understand that Mr Nijboer has a different weighting, but that is what we are saying: CO reduction is necessary; we have already allocated 500 million. We do not see why we should now want to make an additional reservation for the specific objectives set by Mr Nijboer. I would also like to ask Mr Nijboer: I do not see why he thinks that argument would be misleading. I'll get to the first one in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u244	When is that gonna happen, Mr. Chairman, the first one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u245	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. It would be nice if he could finish his reply on this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u246	In my view, the third and second arguments are already convincing. I have to reread the exact text, because I just got it. So I will argue the first one again. Once again, for me alone, the third and second arguments are sufficient to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u247	It's an amendment, not a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u248	Sorry, Mr Nijboer is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u249	Yeah, and on the first point, too. It is said to an opposition party: your amendment is inadequate; the coverage is inadequate. Mrs Leijten has quite rightly made a point of this: on the budgetary right of the Chamber, on how the Minister deals with it and on how difficult it is for Members of Parliament to cover it if they do not know what is occasional and what is structural. The Minister says very lightly "Mr Nijboer is throwing it a bit mixed up; he raises the burden and he spends it," but that's just not true. I would like to give him the opportunity to take that back and say: that was incorrect, that judgment is incorrect and I do not take it back on the basis of other arguments. I do not share those arguments either, but well, that is allowed in politics. But I'm not gonna let you tell me it's not right if it's right. The Minister of Finance has a heavy responsibility for this, because he is ultimately Minister of Finance, he monitors the budgetary rules. I just want my amendments to be appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u250	Yes, Mr. Chairman, just a little while longer. I take this very seriously, of course. That is why I have also said earlier in debates towards Mr Nijboer and also more broadly that the Court's budget law is fully in line with my view. But unless I have misunderstood, what is the distinction between the reservation made by the cabinet and Mr Nijboer's motion? Again, if it's different...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u251	The amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u252	Mr Nijboer's amendment. If it's any different, I'd be happy to be briefed. We have said that we are making this reservation for additional expenditure on CO reduction. I think Mr Nijboer wants to fix here on the revenue side. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u253	This is an amendment to the Social Affairs budget: to add 500 million to the expenditure side of the Social Affairs budget to compensate for the purchasing power of people affected by a high energy bill. That's just publishing. There are a lot of expenditure on the Social Affairs budget. It's one of our biggest budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u254	Let me go into more detail, because I think that is important in order to avoid misunderstandings. It is really obvious to do purchasing power through income, and I am keeping that going. That's exactly what we're doing. That is exactly what every August decision is about. But Mr Nijboer is right: in theory it can also be done on the expenditure side. So I shall at least amend the first part of my reply. I'm not taking anything off the second and third. I simply consider that logic of substance to be different from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u255	I am glad to have the opportunity, Mr President, because otherwise, if there is no other way, I will ask for a third term. It is not the case that expenditure is not used for purchasing power. The AOW is a purchasing power instrument. All fees are part of it. The childcare allowance is on the SZW budget. The rent allowance is on the Home Office budget. Then I get the argument from the Minister of Finance that purchasing power does not go through expenditure. What am I supposed to do with that as a Member of Parliament? The Minister's second argument was that he disagreed with the CO fund. I didn't like the argument, but I do support it. Except it's a half-billion off. That is simply a factually incorrect argument against my amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u256	Let's talk about that reservation one more time. It seems that Mr Nijboer and I disagree. I think it is sensible and prudent. I agree with him that there should then be a basis. I think I have just said to Mrs Leijten that, if we do this properly, by means of a supplementary law, the Chamber will still be able to judge it. That is why I can give Mrs Leijten's amendment to the Chamber's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u257	Motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u258	Excuse me, it's late in the week and far into the debate. I shall go back to the amendment and the revenue and expenditure. Mr Nijboer is right to say that it applies, for example, to the AKW, to child care schemes and to child care allowances. But it is true that Mr Nijboer knows better than anyone else that you normally do repairs on the burden side, on the revenue side, in the August decision-making process. We can do it here. I don't think it's that obvious. But I would like to amend that, as I said to him just now, my first argument in that way. I do not think it is obvious, but that in itself is no reason to make it completely impossible. I'll keep the substantive weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u259	Then it is clear: the amendment is right, right and right, and it is a political choice whether you want it or not. Given the great words their group chairmen spoke about purchasing power and the energy bill, I expect support from the coalition parties. In the end, I did get the Minister's argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u260	This was about the amendment to item No. 4 by Mr Nijboer. But, if it is right, there is also an amendment by Mrs Leijten which must be judged in the fullness of this debate. Because we are going to vote on these amendments and motions tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u261	Mr President, which have I...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u262	I'm just assuming the government will take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u263	Yes, Mrs Leijten, I expect that too, but I would like to hear it from the Minister himself. There are two amendments. Perhaps it would be wise to suspend for a minute, so that the Minister has everything together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u264	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u265	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u266	Mr. Chairman. The messenger was so good as to whisper to me what caused the misunderstanding in a practical sense; the amendments were tabled yesterday and are therefore not in the Chamber. So that's why I missed that piece of text when I was preparing it, but of course I only charge it to myself. I must advise against the amendment because the proposers want to make a one-off contribution to energy costs. Once again, I am back at the heart of my speech on this subject, it is a balanced package on the overall burden for 2019. That's the first part. The second part is that, as a cabinet, we have explicitly undertaken the task of weighing up the burden on all groups, but also on middle incomes and lower incomes in all the measures we intend to take in the area of climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u267	These are the concessions for the low and middle incomes, as I say to Mr Stoffer, who, of course, always pretends that the SP does not stand up for the middle incomes. There's money left over from the general budget. That is not an official post, but that money is there. We say: do a great deal now to pay off public debt, which the government intends to do, and bet 1 billion for households who see their energy bills rise harder than the government anticipated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u268	Even after this last interruption, I will not change my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u269	This would discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u270	It is a pity that you can reserve half a billion dollars for yourself for future costs and in that way you say that you are careful but that you let the ordinary people, the households, the families pay the bill nicely and do not arrange anything for that. You can call that all prudent, but I might call it a little unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u271	Mr President, let me conclude by wishing all Members a pleasant, blessed, happy or simply a good Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u272	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the members. This brings us to the end of the debate on the Autumn note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u273	The many amendments and motions for resolutions will be put to the vote tomorrow. I'll suspend for a few moments. After the suspension we continue with the VAO Multiannual Financial Framework.
