ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u1	The joint consideration of the legislative proposals 34805, the merging of the municipalities of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer; 34806, the merging of the municipalities of Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen, Korendijk, Oud-Beijerland and Strijen; 34824, the merging of the municipalities of Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik and the modification of the border between the provinces of Utrecht and Zuid-Holland; 34825, the merging of the municipalities of Aalburg, Werkendam and Woudrichem; 34826, the merging of the municipalities of Nuth, Onderbanken and Schinnen; 34827, the merging of the municipalities of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer; 34828, the merging of the municipalities of Bedum, De Marne, Eemsmond and Winsum; 34829, the merging of the municipalities of Groenegast, Marum and Zuidhorn and a part of the territory of the municipality of Winsum; 34830, the merging of the municipalities of Giessenland and Molenwaard; 34831, the merging of the municipalities of the municipalities of the municipalities of the municipalities of Eemsmond and of Noordijk and Noordwijk. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Interior Minister in this Chamber defended her proposal to withdraw the consultative referendum, with the main argument being the disappointment of citizens about the referendum as an instrument. However, citizens are not disappointed in the referendum; they are and remain disappointed in the way the government handles the outcome. This also applies to the municipal reclassifications, with which this government is once again causing a great deal of disappointment to citizens. For example, the Minister himself says about the reclassification of the town of Haren: "I understand the disappointment among residents of Haren who voted against the reclassification. Although the administrative and social support for a reclassification is of course of great importance, this cannot always be decisive." The reclassification drive must continue with this D66 minister. While she screened last week with the option of local referenda, she already shows no message to the results of local referenda. Portrait is subordinate to the regent agenda. The same applies to the disappointment of citizens and local council members, including the Harense council members of her own D66. She's buying it. The Minister continues to play even greyer on the reclassification of Haren, Groningen, Ten Boer, with arguments from the province of Groningen. For the locals, it's been a long time since we've heard it. On serious points of criticism, such as those of the Citizen Committee Haren, the Minister always gives her standard responses, without taking them into account the current situation. On the contrary, the Minister has her own regentesque D66 logic. The provincial government with D66 in the coalition has appointed former D66 politicians Marga Kool to "protect the interests of the people of Haren" and so there is no need to listen to a referendum result. Then it is no longer important that three quarters of the Haren population voted against the reclassification and a D66 in office without any official basis is suddenly decisive. "Real renewal comes from below," once was a slogan of D66. It has now become "real renewal you avoid from above." Ignoring a local referendum result, ignoring the lack of support for a reclassification is a higher-level shift away from local autonomy. This is clearly contrary to the 1985 European Charter of Local Autonomy. While the administration elite normally embraces everything that is European with soul and salvation, they are now putting European treaties aside because it is not convenient for them. The Minister says that according to the Charter a local referendum is desirable, but not legally mandatory, and that the requirements are met by involving the city council. Let the current city council of the municipality of Haren be against the reclassification, which the minister again has no message to. For this cabinet, Europe is only interesting if powers can be transferred to Brussels instead of strengthening powers at local level. As the EU undermines our national autonomy in its boundless drive for economies of scale, the Minister does so with local autonomy. After all, reclassifications are also an unsubstantiated drive for scaling, without any measurable effect or calculating objective. In all the reclassification proposals, the objectives are very general and vaguely defined. There is no concrete explanation as to why the objectives set should now be re-assessed if necessary. Possible more effective alternatives without redefining are hardly looked at. Only the other route to scaling up, administrative cooperation, is somewhat dutifully stepped up, but every reclassification proposal puts forward a misconception as to why this would not be sustainable in the long term. In doing so, these reclassification proposals are neither proportionate nor careful. In the written rounds, the Minister indicated that it was difficult to formulate general and objective administrative strength characteristics and that measurable effects or objectives in reclassifications are generally not formulated. It is limited to a general vision and a set of social challenges. I quote: 'They usually do not formulate concrete performance indicators that determine when the (long-term) objectives have been achieved'. According to Minister Ollongren. She'll settle for that. To use large-scale reclassification policies and then not even be able to test whether objectives are actually being achieved and without explaining what is to be defined as "administrative power." In addition to the policy results, the financial effects of the reclassifications are not easily verifiable. It is hardly clear in the reclassification plans to what extent taxpayers' money should be saved. This is not important to the Minister either, as she states in the written report: "There is usually no direct reason to steer savings for municipalities as a result of the reclassification." So the Minister is fine with that, too. It doesn't matter if a reclassification will save as long as the administrative scaling-up can continue. Such measurable results and effects would only create an uncomfortable truth for the Minister. For years, years, studies have shown that reclassifications do not improve municipal efficiency and that reclassifications have no impact on public finances. For example, PhD student Bieuwe Geertsema concluded last year that cuts and improved services are based on quicksand. These effects are not noticeable in municipalities which have been redeployed between 1997 and 2011. He also concluded in his research that inter-municipal partnerships produce negative financial effects. Because they are at a greater distance from local government control, Geertsema says they work less efficiently. Furthermore, following the reclassification of the municipality of Haren, he states: "COELO concluded that merger was not necessary. The alarm bells that should ring before forcing a community to reorganise didn't ring. One might think that smaller municipalities have economies of scale, while larger municipalities suffer the disadvantages. But that doesn't seem to be the case either. Therefore, think carefully about reclassification and realize that it doesn't help you financially and that scaling up doesn't have any efficiency benefits either." Why don't the Minister ring these alarm bells? Why is it continuing with this form of fact-free politics, of rücksichtslos reorganising and scaling up? Why does it not want to know concrete, measurable effects? I'd like a response from the Minister. This research implies that due to the increase in scale, due to the greater distance from local government, democratic control and hence the management of efficiency is deteriorating. That greater distance also arises from the citizen. There are fewer representatives per capita, and they are also spread over a wider geographical area. This also gives council members and directors relatively less time and opportunity to pay attention to individual citizens. Many reclassification municipalities have formulated an ambition to improve neighbourhood and village policies after the reclassifications, which, of course, are at odds with this. Village and district councils are presented as contact points, but these organisations generally lack a legal basis, facilities and powers. Although these are often well-meaning volunteers, there may also be situations where the democratic character, the level of representativeness and the integrity may be at stake. However, the Minister does not want to provide any guarantees in this respect, since "they are an addition to the public service delegation and not a replacement of the local council representation'. Because of the reclassifications, because of the disappearance of sometimes existing municipal autonomy for centuries, it creates a gap in which this addition to the city council would have to step in for the sake of participation. A supplement which is completely separate from the democratic rules of the game, but which must function as a relevant advisory body and as such is included in the reclassification proposals. Prefer to maintain a real city council, rather than hold such a surrogate council to the citizens. A real city council, as intended in the house of Thorbecke, where there is room for large and small municipalities. Thorbecke also assumed a decentralised unitary state according to organically grown set-up principles, with the historical growth being the only essential source of law for the national identity of a people. The individuality of a people, and with it also its constitution, had to be understood from the whole of its history. It is precisely in Thorbecke's organic state doctrine that a large degree of autonomy fits for the local communities. By pressing reclassifications from above, historically-growing developments and individuality of a community are crossed. This supposedly liberal minister is acting against the spirit of Thorbecke. No, historically grown, organic development, individuality, identity and autonomy do not count in these reclassification proposals. The fact that places within newly formed municipalities are sometimes tens of kilometres away from each other is irrelevant. The fact that some municipalities have been autonomous for centuries is irrelevant. That places social-culturally do not share anything with each other, is not an issue. For the self-proclaimed cosmopolites of the government elite there are no such factors. Multiculturalism, diversity, international solidarity: that is all much more important. Take, for example, the children of group 8 of public primary school De Wissel in Haren. They were allowed to get used to being part of the big city of Groningen. On a field trip to the mosque in Groningen, to pray there on the knees. This is normally found by the cosmopolites, while one has no message to the individuality of the Groningen village culture. Hollow words also count a lot harder. For example, the minister says about the Hoeksche Waard: "The reclassification will improve this by creating one administrative municipality with approximately 86,000 inhabitants, one municipal administration and one powerful administrative organisation. There are now five municipalities between 9,000 and 29,000 inhabitants, 17 villages, five colleges with five mayors and fifteen aldermen, five municipal councils with a total of 83 council members, five smaller official organisations and several mutual associations. One large municipality can act more decisively in the region." Et cetera, et cetera. But what must be decisive, administratively powerful and decisive in the region remains unclear. It especially sounds very powerful. Pressing it from the top. Powerfully ignore the citizens. Mr. Chairman. That's why I can be brief. For the PVV the citizens count and the local autonomy counts. Above all, citizens must be able to express themselves in a referendum. The PVV will therefore only support reclassification proposals on which citizens in all the municipalities concerned have expressed a positive opinion in a local referendum. That is why, and because this has not been done in relation to the proposals before us, we are opposed to all 12 current reclassification proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u4	I have listened to Mr Van Hattem for a moment. He suggests that all these reclassification proposals have been drawn up with the whip, but a large number of them have been made on a voluntary basis, and indeed without a referendum. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u5	I thank Mrs Huijbregts of the VVD for the question. You yourself raise the most important point: without a referendum and yet voluntarily. The citizens in the relevant municipalities have not been asked, and if they have already been asked anything, like in Haren and in Underbanks, that result is ignored. Although the municipal administration wants a reclassification, the citizens have not been able and have not been able to express their views on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u6	Most of the time, a city council election goes on reclassification proposals. But you see what is legally considered a voluntary reclassification not as voluntary? You're against that, too? You don't think there's anything wrong with redefining on the basis of democratic decisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u7	Now we have an interesting argument from Mrs Huijbregts. She says, "if there's been a city council election." For example in the municipality of Haren have been municipal elections and there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u8	There are 11 other proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u9	Yes, but you are ignoring a very important one here, which is very much opposed by the people. There is a municipality that is financially and administratively well organized and of which three-quarters of the population are opposed to the reclassification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u10	I asked about the voluntary reclassifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u11	We would like to test this voluntary nature in a referendum by asking the citizens, not only the administrators but also the citizens, so that citizens can express themselves about the future of their congregation and their community and about the context in which they want to live organizationally. We believe that this is essential. So the degree of voluntaryity depends on whether or not we hold a referendum. So far, Chairman, in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased to be able to make this contribution on behalf of the Party for Animals. The time when the municipality of Sloten, with 600 inhabitants, opposed merging with the municipality of Gaasterland with 7,500 inhabitants, is now 35 years behind us and a lot has changed at that time. The opposition to reclassification and the feeling that the municipality will be moved away by reclassification, have become less, although not disappeared. My constituency actually believes that in the past few decades, in the case of decentralisation of tasks, in many cases, the province should have had better tasks instead of the municipality, because that would have resulted in strong provinces and municipalities could really have remained the "close" government. But that stage has passed, and we're not turning it back. The consequence of the current situation is that in many cases it is indeed necessary to scale up and experience it as necessary. But not always; this is also evident in the examination of these twelve merger designs. Often they are to everyone's satisfaction, but sometimes it is really different. It will then be important to continue to pay attention to the starting point, because the starting point in the policy framework is to reorganise from the bottom up, with administrative, social and regional support, and thus explicitly with regional support. It's not just the city that decides. The views of the province and neighbouring municipalities also count, but the starting point remains: from the bottom up. The coalition agreement has the same approach. On this basis, it usually goes well. Of the whole package of reclassification proposals, by far the majority do not pose any problems. They have sufficient support in the relevant municipalities and support in the province. But in some cases it appears that part of the municipality does not feel served by the city council's position. In one case, one or more of the municipalities concerned feel badly served and in one case, a municipality feels not only poorly served but simply misled. These are all cases that need to be addressed in this treatment, where the latter is likely to have the most profound social consequences and also unleash the most anger. We'll start with the easiest situations. The merger of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude with Haarlemmermeer does not cause any problems. Only in Spaarndam-Oost, many inhabitants prefer to be joined by Haarlem, so that both halves of Spaarndam come together under one board. That does not seem unreasonable and a motion has been adopted in the Lower House to get the Minister to look into it. I suppose she will, too. The merger of Giessenlanden with Molenwaard to Molenlanden does not really pose a problem, although one merger follows the other. Only in a separate eastern corner of the new municipality lies Arkel. Many of its inhabitants prefer Gorinchem, because Arkel is totally opposed to it. Now a motion has already been adopted in the House of Representatives to look at the future of Gorinchem, which remains relatively small. If the Minister is going to do the same, she will undoubtedly look at Arkel's position as well. Perhaps the Minister would like to say something about that. Then a little harder. The intended municipality of Hoekse Waard should consist of five current municipalities, three of which consider that the excellent cooperation can be further developed. Both administratively and socially, there seems to be a lack of support here. To continue while cooperation is working well and the Hoekse Waard can also bring about sufficient solidarity does not seem useful or, in other words, no longer in line with the starting point of the policy framework. I'd like to hear from the Minister about that. This is where our two groups really see objections. All other mergers do not pose any problems, seem to have sufficient support and also result in beautiful historically related areas with historically responsible names: Altena, Vijfherenlanden and Westerkwartier. The Hogeland and West Betuwe are still close to that. And I regret to note that Noardeast-Fryslân is topographically correct, but gives few historical clues. I have to admit, I haven't been able to think of anything better for that myself. Remains the most difficult case: Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. Our groups see great objections there, in terms of support, but also because of the way things are going, which gives rise to a great deal of frustration. The almost complete lack of support in the municipality of Haren for merger with Groningen shows that 75% of the population is opposed to a poll and that in the 2014 municipal elections in which the reclassification question played a clear role, a majority was elected to the council which was absolutely opposed to the merger. It also shows that a civil organisation has constantly and to the last resisted the merger. It is also apparent from the large number of negative views of the municipality on the reclassification design. In the case of relatively massive resistance to a measure, a responsible government should reconsider whether the path taken is justified. Doesn't the Minister agree? Then let's get back to business. Of course, the province of Groningen, in its policy on reclassifications, has left a certain amount of room to pursue a reclassification which it considers necessary by taking as its starting point that it is not absolute but 'in principle' and 'in principle' left to the municipalities to make their own choices. But in line with the college agreement, in September 2015, the provincial board says absolutely: "This means that our college will not use its power to make reclassification proposals on its own, if there is no support from the municipalities concerned." This must be understood as a statement to which the current college attaches itself in its term, especially if the same is confirmed in a letter to the municipality of Haren. When the province then starts an ARHI procedure and opens an open consultation to allow Haren to participate in the shaping of the municipal future, it forces the municipality to think. But the province says immediately that after the consultation, the municipality must decide for itself what is best for its citizens: remain independent and resolve bottlenecks itself, or redefine them. Here again, therefore, the choice is expressly left to the municipality, in accordance with the policy formulated by the college. Who paints the surprise, no the indignation, if the municipality of Haren opts for independence and adopts a clear plan to solve the bottlenecks, and the province suddenly appears to want to continue a merger with Groningen and Ten Boer. Then, in Haren, the municipality requests the Minister to suspend and destroy ARHI decisions and refuses the municipality further participation in the process if it appears that according to COELO the redirection package is a good answer to the financial problems. Why did the province choose this road? Was the reversal package of the municipality not sufficient to resolve the bottlenecks? The province has never indicated any bottlenecks other than financial: deficits, debts and undersolvency. The package of measures was assessed by COELO as sufficient and, so far, the measures have been effective in achieving what they were intended to achieve. There is still guilt, but the general reserve grows like cabbage. So why? In any case, it is clear that the municipal government and a large part of its inhabitants feel simply deceived by the broken promises of the province. This is why the municipality always talks about "the untrustworthyness of the province" and about "inappropriate governance." The task of the province at the start of the open consultation to decide as a municipality itself "what is best for its citizens" is an interesting one. The municipality of Haren has been named the third best housing municipality in the Netherlands in Elsevier and has always been in the top five in the last twelve years. It must therefore be assumed that the level of provision is well in order. Actually, that also means that the administrative power has been quite good so far. Local taxes, of course, don't say everything. Considering that the ozb for homes in Haren and Groningen is about the same, but that more than 90% more is paid for companies and institutions in Groningen than in Haren, and therefore no precario duties are levied in Haren, as in Groningen, Haren's conclusion is that it is better for its inhabitants and entrepreneurs to remain independent, not incomprehensible; to put it mildly! Then the Minister's statement in her answer to questions in the Lower House that "the tax burden on companies is expected to increase to a small extent if the rates of the current municipality of Groningen continue to apply in the new municipality" is strange, even completely incomprehensible! Surely the Minister himself should agree with that? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the inhabitants of Haren do not progress by merging with Groningen. It is, of course, quite justifiable to allow a municipality to decline if it is really desirable because of greater interests in the regional framework. But in this case it was not used as an argument by the province and also by the minister. The argument is always, in the province and also in the Minister's answers to our questions, that the situation of the Municipality of Haren is so uncertain that it is far from certain that the financial measures will be sufficient and that there is also a shortage of administrative power. But all these are just loose assumptions that are not confirmed by facts. And the opposite is clearly evident: Hair and the Harenars are falling heavily on it, financially and possibly also in the provision level. So the argument is wrong. If there are other reasons, for example, the position of Groningen, it could have been argued. As it stands, Harenas feel deceived by unfulfilled promises and sexual sacrifice by the expected consequences of what they are forced to do. It would be good if the Minister could indicate that the reason for the proposed reclassification should not be sought so much in the situation of Haren as in the situation around Haren, and that the feeling of broken promises and unjustified arguments is therefore not incomprehensible. Finally, it would also be good if she said that the attempt by the province to allow this reclassification to continue for a slight aggregation, while the province knew very well that the municipality of Haren was mordicus against this and the proposals therefore absolutely did not meet the criteria for a slight aggregation, was certainly careless. It was an attempt to get away with it more easily, not a real picture of things. By Haren, this was understood to be yet another unfair treatment. In her reply, did the Minister not try to cover the province in everything, even where that was clearly not justified? Mr. Chairman. All mergers which pose little or no problems in drawing up the plans will have to wait and see if the implementation of the merger is equally smooth. We certainly have to wait to see whether the expected financial and other benefits will be realised. That doesn't always work. But where a planned merger raises as much frustration as it is now with the board and residents of Haren, see also the letter received by the chairman of the Citizen Committee in Haren, dripping with frustration, so much frustration, it is clear in advance that there is no good basis. Does the Minister not agree that it would be better to fall back on what is actually the policy's starting point: reclassification should, in principle, come from the bottom and not from the top? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to wait for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. During the Rutte II cabinet, the number of municipalities was reduced from 415 to 388. In most cases this was done on the basis of voluntary decisions. The Rutte III cabinet extended the possibility of imposing mergers, but remained faithful on paper the principle that municipalities should be able to make their own decisions from the bottom up. The municipality of Haren and its inhabitants now know what that is worth in practice. On 19 March 2014, a citizens' consultation was held in Haren with a particularly large turnout of 75%. As a matter of fact, 74% of the voters opposed the merger with the municipality of Groningen. The majority of the council in Haren, including the D66 group, also opposed it. The D66 Alderman Michiel Verbeek clearly said: "You can be in favour of re-organisation because it is a party principle, but they cannot merge Haren because we have no independent future. That's just bullshit," said this D66 man. On 1 January 2019, the almost 20,000 inhabitants of Haren will have to become part of the new municipality of Groningen, the fifth city of the Netherlands. The resistance to this in Haren can be called an unprecedented mass. In the opinion of 50PLUS, OSF-senator Ten Hoeve has just rightly pointed out the fact that Haren has been in the top of the best housing communities in the Netherlands for many years. The government's replies of 6 July are therefore not convincing. The government says that it is uncertain whether recent steps will be sufficient and whether the difficult reversal package will be sufficient. But the government doesn't say it's insufficient. It also ignores the financial position of the municipality of Groningen. Does the Minister guarantee that there is no risk of applying for the status of Article 12 municipality, with all the consequences for the inhabitants? I'd like a clear answer. The argument that other factors, such as a vulnerable civil service organisation, are also involved without evidence that this organisation would be insufficient, makes it appear as if the minister appeared to be a lawyer of less good business. What it will mean for the inhabitants of Haren is clearly stated in the beautiful document "Hearing on your own legs." The board in the city of Groningen is inaccessible and difficult to reach for people from Haren. Short lines are exchanged for bureaucracy and aloofness. The involvement of the inhabitants of Haren in their congregation and in the community will inevitably decrease. In dealing with the repeal law consultative referendum, this minister pointed out the importance of the local referendums, and I quote 'to involve people very much in politics and political decision-making'. Can the Minister explain what the quoted result of 19 March 2014 means to her? What sense and effect does it have when people speak so clearly? The inhabitants of Haren feel completely powerless. No reasonable arguments are used, either by the province or by the government. People believe that the right information is not provided and that it is decided on the basis of distorted images. That powerlessness of the inhabitants of Haren becomes irrevocable if the First Chamber also agrees to this bill. The only small consolation we can give these voters is that a new judgment can be given on 21 November this year, because then the interim council elections will be held for the new municipality of Groningen. Too late for the directors and too late for the minister to pull Haren out of their heads. We'd like their hair to remain intact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The newspapers reported great joy that broke out in the late summer of 1971. A morbid First Chamber agreed to split the municipality of Ermelo. The municipality of Nunspeet was formed, a municipality where I went through a large part of my childhood. Hence my exhaustive knowledge of divisions of municipalities. But it has remained a rather unique case. The trend is always and again: scaling up. Less municipalities, more inhabitants, fewer council members. The coalition agreement mentions a solid argument for the reclassifications at this time. For more and more municipal tasks, municipalities seek cooperation in a common scheme. That's for good democratic control. This may weaken democratic legitimacy for important tasks that municipalities have to perform. Mergings reduce that problem, but they come with a price. That is that the distance between voters and elected people increases between residents and council members. It is important that even then the municipality is still the place and remains where residents have the first involvement in the democratic process. This is a challenge if not all villages or cores can be represented in a municipality. How do residents feel that their voice matters? How do residents notice that the problems of their own core are well on the retina of council and college? Is it possible to bring good initiatives to fruition together? The answer is not black and white; my group knows that. But these twelve reclassification proposals do bring us to a number of questions, which I would like to ask the Minister. Then, of course, I hope to discuss the individual reclassification proposals, or merger proposals, which are not yet ready for the Christian Union. Does the Minister share the view of the Christian Union Group that the municipality is the nearest place for participation in democracy? What implications does that have when she looks at current developments? Anyone looking at the turnout figures must note that voters are in greater numbers in national elections than they are in council elections. Why is that? Does the Minister have an analysis? Or does it have the willingness to analyse the state of play of the vitality of local democracy? What representatives can we find in the city council? Is it indeed a reflection of society? Or does the abstraction of policy discussions lead to a limited reflection of people who know away with policy pieces? There are very good examples of participation in local democracy. Think of the Right to Challenge the Cabinet is working on. Think of neighbourhood cooperatives, new village councils, participation tables and all kinds of commendable initiatives. The Minister also mentions a number of them in the written answer to our questions. Of course, that is what my group is for. But the fact is that it is very difficult to get a broader involvement from society, in which people all recognise themselves in their own city council and feel involved. What does it take to make local democracy more vital? Is the Minister prepared to consider, on the contrary, the issue of proximity to democratic representatives? When does the Minister think that the limit has been reached of increasing the scale over and over again? The State Committee sees the parliamentary system. However, Thorbecke's house has more floors, which require permanent maintenance. The election turnout alone is a sign that we must not slacken. I hope that this Minister will have the courage to take action on this issue. The coalition agreement talks about strengthening local democracy. The Minister invests in council members and in security for people's representatives. This is important and rightly so, but the Christian Union Group encourages it to step up its efforts to strengthen it. Then there are the proposals for merging. Let me start with the proposal that sees on Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. It is clear: many in Haren and a majority of the Haren City Council do not have a fiduciary in the proposed merger. I would like to point out that this consideration for a substantial minority in the council, including the local group of the Christian Union, has been different. For the Christian Union factions in Haren, Ten Boer, Groningen city and the province there is that confidence. They voted in favour of this merger. That doesn't take away the lack of support in Haren. This is also apparent from the many e-mails and other messages that have come from Haren, including my group. For the legislator, the ARHI Act and the policy framework are the guiding principles for assessing the merger. In the absence of support, the other criteria set out in the guideline on sustainability, regional developments, governance and internal cohesion have added weight to the assessment of this merger. It is also necessary to look at the procedure of the province. My group asked questions about this in the written round. It has become clear that at the moment there are only two flavors: either this merger, or an independent Haren, and thus also putting the merger of Groningen and Ten Boer on hold. Previous choices of the Haren City Council in other mergers in the region mean that there are no connecting points there anymore. I am thinking in particular of the municipality of Tynaarlo. Does the Minister consider it impossible that this will be an option in a few years' time? The Minister stressed that the process carried out by the province of Groningen was properly and in accordance with the procedural arrangements. Can the Minister also comment on the choice of the province not to investigate further the alleged reclassification with Tynaarlo? It is conceivable that, in terms of sustainability and regional cohesion, in the light of the further choices of merged municipalities in the province of Groningen, an independent Haren is seen as less appropriate. The Minister also states that one municipality should not have a veto to stop that process indefinitely. However, I have always thought that this was particularly an argument if other municipalities concerned were to be hampered by the attitude, while the impression is that only Haren herself is turning in in terms of administrative power and financial risks that one takes. How does the Minister weigh that? Please reflect on this argument. My group has taken note of the administrative agreement, including on core policy. In any case until 2040 the transitional area between Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer is not built. We see the risks to Haren's administrative power and financial future, which have been demonstrated by several reports, despite the good efforts that have been made. I believe that these aspects of the policy framework are well weighted, but I would like to hear the Minister's answers to the further questions that remain. Then the reclassification in the Hoeksche Waard. No unit here either. All municipalities acknowledge that they are not going to make it, but there is a difference about the best follow-up. The procedure carried out, in my group's view, has made it absolutely clear that a choice is necessary and that no one will benefit from a fresh start. Now that the procedure is in line with the requirements, we will follow the government's proposal, but with the concern and the remark that there will really be a lot of work to be done to achieve and regain confidence in the municipal administration, especially in those municipalities that could not agree with this solution. The policy to be pursued must also be open to the recognition and recognition of the individuality of cores. Mr. Chairman. My group has raised questions of a more fundamental nature when it comes to merging into the municipality of Five Lord countries, in particular with regard to the provincial borders. We read in the report of the Jansen-Commission recommendations that see both the adaptation of the municipal reclassification policy framework and the ARHI Act. That is important, because now the assessment framework for residents was unclear if they were against the adjustment of provincial borders. That is a missed opportunity and that has reduced the support for this merger. In the written reply, the Minister undertook to make adjustments to the policy framework. Thank you for that, but I would like to ask her if she can explain something, in line with the Jansen Committee. At what point can it make those adjustments, and does it indeed see a supplementary balancing framework for changes in provincial borders? There is also no policy framework for provinces that differ, while the framework conditions and role of the minister need to be clear. What role do the relevant trade ministers have when regionally organised issues such as care, safety, environment and labour market are the subject of dispute? When does the Minister intend to put this in order and when will she inform the Chamber? Does all this give the Minister the opportunity to explicate Article 41 (7) of the ARHI Act, the article that looks at the common rules established by royal decree, and, if so, in what way? I hope that the Jansen report will provide guidance on this point, too, and I ask for a commitment. Mr. Chairman. The other questions raised by the Christian Union Group, including the other proposals for merging, were adequately answered in the reply. When it comes to merging the municipality of Vijfherenlanden, we really think that lessons should be learned from this. However, this does not prevent the intention to merge. For Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer and also for the new proposed municipality of Hoeksche Waard, the foundation of the project is very important. However, with the current legislation and regulations, this is not a red card for the progress of the procedure, but then all other aspects will be given extra weight. In the Hoeksche Waard we are convinced that this is the right choice. For Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer I tend to do so too, but I listen with attention to the Minister's answers to the questions asked, particularly as regards the sustainability of the chosen solution and the procedure followed. The Christian Union Group believes that the discussion of twelve merger proposals is a moment of reflection. Not only to mention that democratic control and administrative power are being regained, but precisely as a decisive moment to face shadows and yet challenges for this time. How do we keep the nearest democratic community vital? I'm hoping for a visionary minister who knows how to handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing twelve legislative proposals to reorganise and scale up municipalities and a provincial border change. Now that we're discussing so many mergers in one treatment, I'm going to take a short, more general look. Since 1950, the number of municipalities in the Netherlands has fallen dramatically, from over 1,000 to just 400 now. Job expansion, greater resilience and better service provision are often the key arguments. The decentralised unitary state, which is the Netherlands, rests firmly on the foundation of local authorities. Successive Cabinets have therefore not been deterred from bringing ever more and heavier tasks to the municipalities and thus closer to the citizens. Fresh are the three major decentralisations in the social domain and the upcoming Environment Act. The latter places an even greater responsibility on municipalities to make their own integral considerations in the physical domain. In the scarce recent examples of public centralisation, such as that of the police, the movement is once again visible to give more attention and control to local and regional tasks. But with decentralisation goes hand in hand with scaling up and increasing functional regions. Scale expansion at local level is the other side of many decentralisations. Municipalities are increasingly carrying out tasks together. As a result, our country is now teeming with regional cooperation in the areas of security, health care, transport, labour market, social employment, housing market and so on. And that regionalization continues. For example, this cabinet encourages local broadcasters to cooperate in regional broadcasting and wants to base a new culture system on some sixteen cultural regions, each with its own profile. A large part of civil society is also organised and oriented at regional level. Housing corporations, health care institutions and education boards work to a large extent regionally and not only locally. In this respect, however many types of organisation are organised, the scale at which public services are regulated. With a huge disadvantage that many regional cooperations, such as municipalities, have poor democratic legitimacy. Municipal councils are at a greater distance from decision-making and implementation. Of the daily directors, often cooperating aldermen, no one really goes about it directly. As a result, direct accountability by the local council and accountability in its own council hall is often difficult. As far as my group is concerned, it is not illogical for smaller municipalities to merge into larger ones in this dynamic. A larger municipality with its own elected city council and its own college of B and W can be controlled more directly than a common scheme without directly elected board. Moreover, if this combination is made from the bottom up, then there is not much going on. But we are also curious about this minister's vision of local government. Does the Minister recognise the increasing regionalisation? Scale up municipalities doesn't have to be the only answer. Indeed, inter-municipal and regional cooperation will continue to exist. Does the Minister have a view on the democratic deficit in many forms of cooperation? How could the cabinet help ensure that lectures and councils can continue to make their political choices? Mr. Chairman. There is also another side to the mergers of municipalities: that of the resident, who often attaches to his own neighborhood, neighborhood, village or core. Which more easily identifies itself with Aalburg, Cromstrijen, Marum or Underbanks than with a municipality with an even uncomfortable name as Noardeast-Fryslân, and that is not only because of my statement. This is understandable and it also requires a careful process of involving people, not only in the merger itself, but also after the scaling-up has become a fact. In most of the twelve proposals that we are now seeing, there has been considerable support in the fusion process, taking into account many different individual views that people have. The first major exception here is the merger of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer, in which at least the inhabitants and the municipal board of Haren really do not agree with the plans. Can the Minister explain once again convincingly why, in her view, the process has been sufficiently careful? Or should we note in this case that there is not enough support to be able to speak of a sustainable merger in the long term? We are specifically concerned about the position of employees of the municipality of Haren after the merger. They will not be allowed to become the child of the account of an escalated process. This also applies in particular to the SW'ers who are still employed by the municipality of Haren. Are there sufficient guarantees that the most vulnerable employees, including this group, will retain their often well adapted work? The other exception is the Hoeksche Waard. A decades-long process, in which three of the five municipal councils concerned were against and two were in favour. My group understands that once the province takes responsibility for making a decision. But can the Minister say again why this outcome is inevitable and inevitable? And what's the Minister going to do? Do the province to ensure that a workable situation arises after the possible merger? The municipalities will eventually have to go on with each other! In that light, it might also be interesting to see how the municipality of Goeree-Overflakkee, which was established in a similar process, is going to end five years after that. The Minister briefly mentioned this in the reply, but we would like to hear more information on the lessons to be learned from that merger and the subsequent period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u20	I would like to ask Mr Lintmeijer what he means by 'the municipalities'. He talked about the Hoeksche Waard and said "they'll have to go on with each other anyway." If all the municipalities are dissolved, and there will be one new municipality, then the municipalities will not have to go on with each other at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u21	My written text said "exe" in brackets. I swallowed it a little as part of the hurry. But that's right. If the municipalities are merged into a single municipality, then there are still five parties involved in the merger which will have to come together to create a workable municipality. So either the party's off, and then they have to keep working together somehow. Or the party will go on, and then you'll have to come to a workable situation like five different blood groups coming together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u22	In the latter case, I don't see it that way. Those five municipalities just disappear and there's going to be one new city council. And that's funny what there was a disagreement between the former municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u23	Well, that's to be seen. The boards disappear, but the people stay. And they are often people who form new governments again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u24	When it comes to people, the situation is obvious. The vast majority of residents who voted in the Hoekse Waard are against that merger. Then the conclusion is clear and we must follow those residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u25	I am concerned not only with the inhabitants, but also with the residents who together form the current governments and who will soon, to some extent new people and to some extent existing people, form a single municipality with each other or not. Then there will have to be something about the basis of support in my view. We have noted with approval the Minister's intention to update the 2013 policy framework. This policy framework includes support, coherence, governance and balanced regional relations. We would like to give the Minister more attention in an updated policy framework to the involvement of residents, not only before but also after the merger. The merger does not stop if the new municipality has been declared in the Official Journal. We would not want to prescribe how the municipalities concerned involve and consult their inhabitants, but we would like to have a clearer accountability framework for this, which indicates how residents have been consulted, what the results of the consultation are and how they have been taken into account in the deliberations. We do not want to interfere with the powers of the councils to make the final assessment, but we want to be able to see clearly how the interests of the residents are weighted. We would also like, as has been said, to see a new policy framework more closely in order to maintain the involvement of residents after the merger. Proximity and recognizable identity are important. We would like instruments to be developed and the new Council will decide on this in order to protect the identity of cores and communities and to ensure that residents also continue to participate in local democracy in the larger municipalities. A lot of research shows that the participation of residents is decreasing after a merger, and that is undesirable. Then there are a few very brief questions. During the merger of Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik to the municipality of Vijfheerenlanden, the provincial border also changes and changes the composition of a number of common regulations. We regret that it will take until September for the financial consequences of this to be clarified. Perhaps the Minister could say a little more about that. The question on the motion on Spaarndam has already been asked and I would like to repeat it. Finally, we are in principle in favour of most of the reclassifications before us. We are not yet convinced of a single merger if it can achieve a workable cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mrs Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u27	Mr. Chairman. In 1978 I was elected council member and alderman of the municipality of Teteringen, a village of 5,500 inhabitants, between the cities of Breda and Oosterhout. Breda was our natural enemy. Annexation was always lurking. The Bredase bypass split our territory and their business building extended to the edge of our open polder. We went the other way, with our back to Breda, towards Oosterhout. The nature and forest area and the agricultural area between Oosterhout and Teteringen provided reassuring long-term safety. Teteringen remained independent until 1997. Meanwhile, the village has been part of the Breda municipality for more than 20 years, to the great satisfaction of the inhabitants. Yes, new buildings have been added, but at the same time enlargement has provided new facilities that fit in with this time. The loss of identity that everyone was afraid of at the time and on which the fierce resistance was based did not occur. Of course, this traditionally agricultural community has changed, as everywhere similar communities change in or near urban areas, like all of Brabant and the whole of the Netherlands have changed. But Teteringen still forms an unmistakable community within the administrative structure called Breda. I will save you other examples, such as my experience in a number of composite municipalities in the Achterhoek, or that of my own municipality Oosterhout, a city with the historical connection with three church villages. My main experience is that it is not the municipal administration that determines the identity of a society, but society itself. The municipal administration facilitates this only, of course in a wide range of forms and degrees. The best municipal administration is the government that respects the differences and can deal with them and dares to deal with them. I sometimes say myself: that in the municipality all clickos are the same does not mean that all villages are the same. The process of municipal reclassification is more than a rational model of pros and cons, of cost sharing, population numbers and provable criteria, because the important criterion of acceptance needs to be earned and this is closely listened to. Attitude, behavior, patience, wisdom and modesty of often the greatest farmer deserve special attention, because in practice it turns out that lack of it is the most disturbing factor in the process, especially where historical animosity still colors the relationship. The height of the score of the other hard criteria from the guide evaporates. Mr. Chairman. For the members of the VVD Group, reclassification is a burden resort when cooperation is no longer sufficient to provide adequate service to citizens. In practice, inter-municipal cooperation is often complicated and time-consuming. Colleges and municipal councils must take a step back, and that is not always easy to sell politically. The municipality remains autonomous and democratic legitimacy is under pressure. In many areas, municipalities are obliged to cooperate or coordinate. Voluntary cooperation is also growing in order to adequately implement the administrative task for residents. It is therefore important for sustainable balanced cooperation to have a balance sheet of the size, control and contribution of the participants within common arrangements. Cooperation and merger cannot therefore be separated from the administrative environment. Mr. Chairman. In the written preparation, the VVD asked questions to the Minister about four legislative proposals, which my group considered to have answered very clearly, for which I am grateful. By Bill 34806, Merging municipalities of Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen, Korendijk, Oud-Beijerland and Strijen into a new municipality of Hoeksche Waard, my group has come to the conclusion that this is the only option and the right option for sustainable administrative cooperation and future in this area. The VVD can also agree with proposal 34827, the merging of the municipalities of Haarlemmerliede, Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer into the new municipality of Haarlemmermeer. In our consideration, we follow the government. I would like to add my voice to the question of how the Minister intends to implement the motion adopted in the Lower House. Mr. Chairman. I would like to pay more attention, on behalf of my group, to the proposals 34805, Merging municipalities of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer, and 34824, Merging of the municipalities of Leerdam, Zederik and Vianen. In the municipality of Haren........................................................................................................................................................... At the same time, there are also groups of residents who think about this quite differently or more nuanced. The fact is that a majority together with the municipal administration is opposed for various reasons. The resistance is to a large extent fed by distrust of all the governments involved: the province, the city of Groningen and even the minister. The objections focus strongly on the procedure followed. It is believed that it has been careless and even unlawful and that in communication an incorrect representation of things has been and is given. All the political groups in this Chamber have asked the Minister in several rounds and form questions about this and she has explained and explained the procedural steps taken. We are not getting a different picture from the discussions we have had. The province of Groningen itself has finally fulfilled the legal obligation to initiate the open consultation and to make use of the possibility to come up with a reclassification advice against the wishes of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u28	I wonder what the VVD thinks is clear about the post-parrots, the echoes, of what the province of Groningen has literally said about Haren, because I have not heard many new insights from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u29	Then we disagree on this and the PVV appreciates the answer in a different way than the VVD did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u30	Could Mrs Huijbregts of the VVD perhaps explain what new insights she has received from the Minister's reply to the reclassification of Haren at Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u31	I suggest that I continue with my speech because then you can also hear the interpretation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u32	I am very curious to know whether this is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u33	Then Mr Van Hattem can still catch the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u34	Ms Huijbregts stressed that the province started open consultations and came to the conclusion of reclassification. However, the province started the open consultation precisely with the express statement that Haren had to indicate what is best for its inhabitants. In advance, she also stated very clearly and absolutely that she would not impose a reclassification but would respect the basis of support. How does Mrs Huijbregts indicate this in the overall procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u35	Eventually, the province of Groningen decided to come up with a reclassification advice. That is, in fact, the summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u36	But should we not conclude that this is against all expectations, and against all the very explicit principles of the province itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u37	It's not extrajudicial. The province was entitled to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u38	It is not extrajudicial; I agree with Mrs Huijbregts. Isn't it wonderful, however, to go against your own statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u39	I will come back to that in a moment because I have a judgment on that too. I am just saying that the province has finally fulfilled its duty to come up with a reclassification recommendation. By then, of course, the communication between the parties involved was not, to say the least, optimal anymore. That's not surprising. To say the least, communication had not gone smoothly either. From the point of view of the resistance of the population in Haren to the final result, we can also point to the mistrust I mentioned earlier. But we can't share it. Besides procedurally, Haren also fights the need for reclassification. With the measures taken, the municipality would be financially and administratively able to continue to operate independently. The crucial question is whether this is a real expectation. Is a municipality with the size and position of Haren able to operate sustainably independently within the renewed Groningen administrative and urban network for a period of the next 20 to 25 years? From Haren's point of view, the VVD understands the trust in this, but when we look at the administrative environment, the past, the facts and the administrative task, there seems to be an extremely fragile basis for such sustainable independence. I would like a response to this; I would also like a response to all the Minister's other contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u40	I had one more question for Mrs Huijbregts about lifting the town of Haren. I have also found many letters in the many documents from residents who say: for us, the merger with Groningen can only mean that the level of provision is under pressure. They also call that a very sad argument. What do you think of these arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u41	You mean the amenities in Haren? Or in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u42	No, I mean the facilities in Haren, which are still in the municipality of Haren but later in the large municipality of Groningen. But I mean the facilities in the village of Haren, which the inhabitants of Haren have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u43	They stay in their own place. They find their own development. I did not go into this in detail, but there are, of course, many examples of composite municipalities in which society is very active, including in the maintenance of facilities. The support for these facilities must be found within these societies. Then you see that there are movements that maintain but also renew facilities. That is also the development in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u44	Mr. Köhler, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u45	My question wasn't meant to be so broad. I was specifically talking about the village of Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u46	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u47	Then let me try to put it one last time, but in a different form. Does Mrs Huijbregts not find it plausible with many inhabitants of the municipality of Haren that in a larger merger municipality the level of provision in Haren eventually reaches the same level as in other districts of the immediately enlarged municipality of Groningen, so at a lower level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u48	That is a qualification which Mr Köhler gives it and which I do not share with him at the moment. Of course there will be developments, even if a peripheral municipality is part of a large city. But if the facilities that exist today are worn in a village or in a core and are used sufficiently, then they will not necessarily be lifted. No one can give a guarantee that that will never happen, as well as it can't for the facilities in the city.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u49	I heard Mrs. Huijbregts say something that triggered me anyway. You say support must be found. But it seems to me that support is something that is there or isn't there. To go looking for something, that is actually to push something in a certain direction as one would like rather than see if there is support for it. Why don't you explain how that's supposed to be seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u50	I didn't say that. I've said that support must be earned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u51	I heard you clearly say: support must be found. But even if support is to be earned, the question is still there. Portrait is there or isn't there. The support surface indicates that something is being worn or not. So I think you're using a wonderful construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u52	However, I would like to return to those provisions. Haren is classified as an excellent residential community. This means that the facilities there are of a high standard. This probably applies to municipal facilities and also to private facilities, institutions and the like that are located there. The reality is that the ozb for institutions and companies in Groningen is 90% higher than in Haren. Is it not likely that when the Groningen ICI rates are imposed on small Hares, it will in any case be to the detriment of those privately financed institutions, companies and facilities? Isn't that to be expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u53	Mr Ten Hoeve assumes the threat model. That means that he thinks, as indeed lives in Haren, that by definition the city will seize all the good things that have been developed in Haren. We don't share that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u54	No, it's not about the city confiscating things that have been developed. The point is that if the city places its own financial situation on the small town of Haren, this will have incalculable consequences as regards the tax on institutions and companies in Haren. That's got to have consequences, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u55	No doubt. Mr. Chairman. I had just said that we believe that there is an extremely fragile basis for such sustainable independence and that we are waiting for the Minister's answers. I wanted to move on to bill 34824, Merging Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik, and of course the border change of the provinces of Utrecht and Zuid-Holland. That's a bill of a completely different order. The three municipalities want to merge voluntarily. Probably the ideal picture when it comes to reclassification, but this choice has some financial consequences, including for other parties. Those who are called upon to do so are not yet clear at the moment. And although it is not unusual, as the Minister says, that even after the date of reclassification provisions are still being made for the consequences of the reclassification, my group does not support the fact that there has been a reclassification with similar financial open ends. The retirement of Zederik and Leerdam from the South Holland Zuid safety region threatens to leave behind with a structurally higher contribution. The planning, as the Minister said, is that in September there will be more clarity about the costs involved in both the exit and entry into force of the various common arrangements. After that, there are still agreements to be made on the distribution. It is a complex issue, involving not only the three municipalities, but also their current and future cooperation partners. From both provinces we get contradictory sounds in terms of their willingness to contribute financially. In the meantime, it seems that the three municipalities have decided to leave everything to the past as far as voluntary partnerships are concerned. Is that right? Why not opt for the new home province? In short, there are still many loose ends that can form a stumbling block. The VVD therefore has great difficulty in considering this proposal at the moment. It is to be praised that the three municipalities have taken this step, but the negative effects cannot be explained to others. The Minister must be more convincing here than in her written response. Mr. Chairman. The VVD can accept all other legislative proposals, of which I would like to mention in particular bill 34825, Merging Aalburg, Werkendam and Woudrichem into a new municipality Altena. That is a new municipality that I feel connected with and responsible for in a special way. In its written contribution to the report, the VVD expressed its appreciation for the courage of those municipal authorities who have chosen to go together with their neighbours. In our complex and demanding society, professionalism is a requirement that all residents of our country must have access to the municipalities. If cooperation is not sufficient or no longer sufficient, combining and merging is a sensible choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u56	Still an interruption. I hear 'brain', but if it's all so fantastic, then it doesn't take courage, then they can go straight to their citizens and say: this is necessary and we ask for your consent. Is it then courage you need for ignoring citizens or not questioning citizens at all? Does that take the courage you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u57	No. Making the decision to abolish your independence is a very difficult choice and to make difficult choices you need courageous drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u58	That is indeed the VVD logic: courageous drivers passing through their citizens, which is seen as brave. You mention the municipality of Altena as an excellent example. Can you tell me what is so unique and specific about it that it is such a perfect example of a good reclassification? As far as I know, the citizens were not asked there either. A new town hall, a former Rabobank building, was purchased there for 14 million euros. All the savings that should be made will therefore be eliminated in one blow. So what's so unique about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u59	As a member of the Provincial States of North Brabant, Mr Van Hattem undoubtedly had the opportunity and also took the opportunity to speak on behalf of the PVV and to say that he did not agree. What is important to me, as our group believes, is that these three municipalities, which were no longer able to operate independently in that large area because they had to seek cooperation with each other for too many things, have decided to take the next step, namely to merge into the recognizable municipality of Altena.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u60	Finally, Mr Van Hattem. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u61	Finally, Mr President. I think that is a bit of a sought-after reason, because the search for cooperation remains the case even after a reclassification. Even big cities like Den Bosch, Eindhoven, and you name it, all have to work together in security risks, in GGDs, in environmental services. They also lose a piece of autonomy. That remains in force here too, so you will continue to have that necessary cooperation. What makes this so unique, what makes it such an improvement? I can't tell from your story. In addition, it was handled by GS and unfortunately not dealt with in PS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u62	I would like to stress one more time that in this case too, even in other cases, but I know this case closely because the neighbouring municipalities of my previous municipality were, because of the scale of the municipality, working together in common arrangements has a very different role and has a very different influence in all associations than when the three separate municipalities each go for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u63	Thank you, Mrs Huijbregts. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Local municipalities are sometimes in a strange split. If they don't work together properly, they should be joined together. If they do work well together, they might as well be joined together. While it should be a choice between working together or combining. That is a crucial difference, especially when it comes to making municipal reclassifications successful. If there's no chemistry, it gets complicated. A few important considerations apply to the SGP group in order to review these municipal reclassifications. First of all, there must be a reclassification from the local municipalities, from the bottom up. This means that there is a strong responsibility at municipal level to ensure that democracy functions properly in the search for the future. From this point of view, there is a second point, namely whether there is social and political support for a successful reclassification. Third: the great is not automatically the plurality of the good. Smaller municipalities can also function very well. To give just one example: a larger municipality almost automatically creates a greater distance from the citizen. So that's not automatically good. Fourth point of consideration for the SGP is that there is a certain room to go against local will, for example, if a municipality in independence does not function properly and for example financially does not have or gets the place in order. A fifth point is that regional interests should not be dominant for a reclassification. For the region too, cooperation can sometimes be better than association. In short, these are five benchmarks. But, Madam President, don't worry, I'm not gonna go through all five of them before all twelve reclassifications. I am concentrating on three of the twelve, namely the legislative proposals 34805, 34806 and 34824. Firstly, the law 34805 on the merger of the municipalities of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. When it comes to a successful municipal reclassification, this is one that is of great concern. The resistance from Haren is remarkably strong. It seems as if there is no one in this congregation who will comply with this intention. Everything has been taken out of the closet to convince us as senators of the unlawfulness of this proposed decision. My group assumes that all the objections have been lodged not only with the members of this Chamber but also with the Minister. That is also a question for the Minister: has she had direct contact with those delegations from this municipality? If so, is there any understanding in her of the position of Haren? If not, why not? Are all those opponents wrong? What did the Minister ultimately decide to do despite the fierce resistance? Can she explain again why a possible merger with the municipality of Tynaarlo, just across the provincial border in Drenthe, would not be an option? After all, the merger of five lord countries is also cross-border? Why wasn't that possible for Haren? Secondly, the bill 34806 on the merger of the municipalities of Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen, Korendijk, Oud-Beijerland and Strijen. This is typically one of those situations where the SGP says: how is this going in the democratic process at local level? In those five municipalities it is very diverse. Two municipalities have spoken out for scaling up to one municipality for the Hoeksche Waard. A number of municipal councils opposed this merger, but they opposed it for better cooperation. Nevertheless, the Minister chooses that municipal reclassification. What is ultimately the decisive motivation to enter this route? For in these municipalities there were no administrative and/or financial shortcomings that require a government-led perseverance? Thirdly, the group of the SGP wants to address the bill 34824 on the merger of the municipalities of Leerdam, Zederik, both province of Zuid-Holland, and Vianen, province of Utrecht, to the new municipality of Vijfheerenlanden, which will be located in the province of Utrecht. The special feature of this planned reclassification is that a provincial border will be shifted. That leads to a few bottlenecks. First, a slightly light-footed problem, or in other words, small suffering. A member of the State from Zuid-Holland, Henk van Dieren, lives in Lexmond, which is the municipality of Zederik. For him, therefore, this reclassification means the end of his membership of the State. Too bad for him, because I know that he and the other group members would have liked to finish the deadline until March 2019. I am afraid that the Minister will not be able to do much about this. I can even understand that, but it would be nice if the Minister could provide a legally effective measure for those few months. Another problem with this reclassification is the following. For the first time since the adoption of the Security Regions Act, a municipal reclassification is accompanied by a change in the provincial border, involving compulsory exit from or entry into legal arrangements relating, for example, to the security region, the environmental service and the GGD. These costs alone are probably already higher than the total friction fee. Is there sufficient recognition of this problem? How is it prevented that the account of this particular fact is placed unilaterally with the municipalities? How does the Minister see the role of the provinces and of the Empire in this particular problem? Is it limited to determining the size of the costs, or is there more to be expected, such as an appropriate national allowance for this particular situation? In addition, last week's guidance committee, Five Lord countries, stated that it also considered that the remaining municipalities should not pay the costs of reclassification or retirement and that it would therefore be agreed within the advisory committee who would pay the real costs. What's that gonna mean in practice? Who is going to take the lead in the end, so that the uncertainties for this aspect are removed? Towards the future: how can such uncertainties ever be prevented in a future case? Madam President. I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u65	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u66	Thank you, Madam President. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to outline how the D66 group views the establishment of the decentralised administration in general and the issue of the municipal reclassification in particular. My group consistently bases these types of issues on the constitutionally anchored main structure of our administrative establishment. I am referring to the fact that there are three levels of government of the Empire, the province and the municipality. These three bodies each have a directly elected parliament as a final responsible body and an open house with an integral set of tasks, powers and responsibilities. As a rule, this main administrative structure is indicated by the term or metaphor "the house of Thorbecke." An analysis of the studies and investigations on developments in the decentralised administration, which have been carried out since the groundbreaking report, on a scale weighted by the 2002 Gelhoed Commission, gives the following picture. The decentralised administration has two main problems. Firstly, there is insufficient administrative capacity to fulfil the current and, above all, future tasks fully and independently, because the administrative tasks are more extensive and many times more complex than they were half a century ago. The administrative organisations of smaller municipalities are quantitatively and qualitatively vulnerable due to lower pay scales and a lack of replacement opportunities. The many forms of administrative cooperation designed to compensate for the lack of administrative power confirm precisely this analysis. In the event of stagnating financial perspectives, the increased importance of Europe and the increased power of the citizen, this problem is gaining in urgency. Mr. Chairman. The second main problem is administrative density within the decentralised administration. Many important and complex tasks of local government are grouped into a multitude of administrative and sometimes administrative forms of cooperation. However, cooperation figures do not have the capacity to act and to be non-committal as a result of the many consultations for the necessary consensus building. Moreover, they lead to fragmented powers and cumulative but diffuse responsibilities, in fact constitute an opaque fourth layer of administration, and this is often said to lack sufficient democratic legitimacy and therefore, above all, political control as a result of the large-scale representative bodies. This analysis is widely supported in the literature and in practice. Complicated is it only when we talk about the directions of solution, in the core: scaling up, cooperation and/or differentiation. We will then encounter a severe degree of political division and administrative unwillingness. My group believes that the starting point of democratically legitimized municipalities and provinces that are sufficiently administrative to fulfil their own tasks in a fully independent way at an adequate quality level and in which the Councils and States themselves manage and control policies, is a better option than the provision of essential policy statements in forms of extended local government or regional government. In that view, municipal and provincial economies of scale are not a threatening perspective in advance. Moreover, administrative investigations and evaluations have repeatedly shown that municipal economies of scale will eventually lead to an increase in the quality of the municipal organisation. Moreover, my group considers that further differentiation in the tasks and powers of municipalities is not inconceivable, as long as it is not intended to preserve small but not sufficiently administrative municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u67	It is interesting that Mr Engels of D66 now refers to research which shows that the quality would increase in the longer term. But nowhere does the present reclassification proposals show that this quality should be measured and that the administrative power should be measured. How can you then know whether that quality and administrative power will increase or decrease in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u68	You don't have to. I have said that there have been several administrative evaluations and investigations into reclassifications. For a certain reason, a review of B&A on the Drenthe reclassification is most likely to occur to me. All kinds of comments can be made on this, but one thing is certain, namely that the quality of the administrative organisation will increase in the long term. That is not being fought by anyone, I shall say. That is the case with all the reclassifications. There is also a rational reason for this. This is because administrative equipment in large municipalities is much less vulnerable, because the possibilities for replacement are increasing, but above all because it allows municipalities to employ better educated people in higher positions because there are higher pay scales. This offers attractive perspectives for people who want to be in public administration and take more responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u69	Mr. Van Hattem, I'd like to ask you to keep it brief in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u70	I will try to keep it brief, Mr President. What Mr Engels is now saying, I think, is a generalisation that is far from always going. We have seen a lot of research from COELO et cetera, which shows that these reclassifications are absolutely ineffective. As far as the quality of the official organisation is concerned, even in the newspaper these days, there are major internal problems in the administrative organisation in the fifth city of the Netherlands, Eindhoven. And that is precisely where there is a proposal to add a municipality like Nuenen, a small municipality, to that municipality to improve quality, while the quality is under pressure in the big city. So it really isn't a kite that always goes on. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u71	Then I repeat what I just said. Objective administrative investigations all indicate that the quality increases after a reclassification over time, and in the way I have just explained. I don't know the Eindhoven case, by the way. I would add: I just heard you call it COELO. I know that institute. I know Professor Allers, my colleague, too. The COELO has indeed carried out a lot of research, particularly in financial terms, whether or not related to aggregations and reclassifications, but it has never carried out a wide-ranging evaluation of the effects of municipal reclassifications. By the way, it is perhaps nice to explain that further that these evaluation studies on municipal reclassifications also involve two types of research. After a reclassification, you always have to deal with temporary merger effects, which have to do with the way municipalities behave for a reclassification. This concerns, for example, whether there is pottering or not, which may have effects on the financial situation of the new municipality. But there are also structural reclassification effects. It is precisely with regard to the latter aspect that it is also said "in the long term" that it is clear that the quality of the municipal organisation will then increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u72	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u73	That's right. That's right. I find it very interesting, like Mr Engels, to be able to look at these effects. But the problem is that these twelve reclassification proposals do not set clear criteria, no conditions for measuring what effects will occur. I specifically asked the Minister in the written round. So how are you going to support these proposals, when it is not at all clear what effects will occur and when this is not measurable? There's nothing to distract, measure or report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u74	That is a very interesting question from the good colleague. By the way, I was still working on my introductory remarks. You will also have noticed that I have not said anything about the legislative proposals themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u75	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u76	But what Mr Engels has said so far has been so interesting that I would like to ask him a question. I also know the studies which show that larger municipalities generally have a better quality administrative system. But can Mr Engels confirm that the same studies which show this also show that the cost of this administrative apparatus, measured per capita, is significantly higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u77	I have just taken a run-up to the aspects that are distinguished in the evaluation studies, not to large municipalities, but to municipalities that have been scaled up. We have to limit it to that. In general, I do not think I can make those statements about large congregations. These studies distinguish between structural effects of reclassification, usually in the longer term, and temporary fusion effects. Depending on this, it may be true that in those investigations it is indeed stated that due to all kinds of circumstances in the run-up to a merger there are problems, for example in the financial field, but also in the organization of the apparatus, if wrong choices are made there when filling in functions. This is sometimes the case because political parties do not take sufficient account of the fact that the administration of a merged municipality sometimes requires a little more than the situation in which they were in. This can, indeed, lead to negative effects temporarily. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u78	Mr Engels was rather praised by municipalities that can manage themselves and that do not depend on cooperation. That is, of course, the most beautiful thing; I feel that with him, but I assume he is also aware that there is a need for this and that, for example, no cooperation arrangements will be allowed to lapse in the case of a merger such as that of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u79	Once again, I can also say that I am going to talk about this, but in general that is indeed the starting point I have tried to outline. Let me put it this way: if you want to take local government seriously and if you want local government to be a fully-fledged local democracy, there is no doubt that local government, local democracy, must be able to carry out all the tasks fully and independently. There is an integral task package. In other words, municipalities should be able to carry out in general all the tasks that the other two bodies also carry out within the main administrative structure but close to the citizen. That is the normative point of departure, which is in line with the basic constitutional structure. Mr. Chairman. Following these general comments on the establishment of the internal administration, I now come to speak more specifically about municipal reclassification, also in a general sense. I can promise you that I will then deal with the legislative proposals. In the view of my group, many current municipalities still lack sufficient administrative power to carry out decentralised tasks at level. This is also apparent from the fact that recently three major decentralisations in the social domain have been set up administratively on the initiative of the Empire in so-called congruent partnerships. But these partnerships also have the same problems that have been identified for this purpose, which are linked to aid structures. If municipalities want to fulfil their ambitions and continue to play a full role as co-government, they will have to invest in strengthening their administrative and administrative quality. In my group's view, this calls for an adequate scaling-up and reorganisation of aid structures and cooperation figures which are used purely as a escape route for failing own quality. Administrative cooperation is not, in my group's view, an equivalent method of increasing administrative power because of the many problems involved in this form of government. Moreover, I would like to stress that a cautious and sensible use of inter-administrative cooperation can contribute to a better performing government, but then the issue is: where do municipalities work together? In the meantime, my group also sees that there is a great deal of resistance to administrative scaling-up. For example, it responds to the need for a collusion of the political and social community. Some directors want us to believe that the identity and culture experience in an area is guaranteed only within the connecting administrative boundaries. However, the idea of a local community as a political community no longer exists in absolute terms. Social cohesion, identity and cultural experience find their social basis and strength primarily in the societies and not in the administrative boundaries. For example, the evaluation of the great Drenthe reclassification of 1998, which sometimes wakes me up, has confirmed that element. I have also heard some references to this today: democracy is identified with the minimum physical distance between citizen and government. In our opinion, however, the essence of democracy is rather the presence of effective control of citizens in the appointment of their directors and also on the content of the policy. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the legislative proposals. I think I'm just gonna hold off on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u80	Mr. Van Hattem, I asked you to do it briefly, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u81	Yeah, short. That last remark calls for a response. D66 makes it very clear that it is mainly about the appointment of the directors. Once again, at local level, we hear you neglecting the referendum, direct democracy. Isn't that a very important factor in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u82	First of all, I'm miscited. But let me put it this way: I am not surprised to say again that the starting points of D66 and the PVV do not always agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u83	Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u84	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. That...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u85	Well, just for the record, Mr. Chairman. I have said that it is about effective control, not only about the appointment of directors, but also about the content and the formation of policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u86	Can we then conclude that referenda can play a very important role in the content and formation of policies, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u87	It is quite possible that referenda play a role in this, but as one dimensional as you deal with referenda, we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u88	Carry on, Mr. English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u89	I come, as I said, to the legislative proposals. We carry out the test of the present legislative proposals in full knowledge that the First Chamber has a tradition of marginalising the reclassification of proposals on the basis of its position and role. That is to say, full of the legitimacy requirements of the Chamber, but with respect for the substantive, more political and administrative considerations made by the governing bodies concerned and assessed by the directly elected representative bodies concerned. Madam President. It will not be surprising if I say that my group is in principle in favour of the legislative proposals before us. In general, these proposals are in line with my group's compact view of the future of the municipal administration. More specifically, my group believes that these proposals are sufficiently motivated by the government. In addition, these proposals have been sufficiently tested against the criteria of political-administrative and social support, internal coherence, governance, sustainability, including sound financial perspective, and balanced regional relations laid down in the current policy framework. In this context, I would like to point out that we greatly appreciate the municipalities involved in these proposals, which have shown a positive attitude and the ambition to invest in their future. Fortunately, that appreciation has been expressed by others as well. Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, we are aware that a number of proposals on some of the test criteria mentioned have been and remain the subject of discussion. In this context, my group particularly needs a further exchange of views with the Minister on legislative proposal 34805, the planned merger of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. I see some surprised looks, but that's probably humor. To the extent that my group still had questions about the proposals for the Hoekse Waard and the Haarlemmermeer, my group is now reassured after the Minister's reaction. In the file on the bill for Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer, my group has found a multitude of reports and other documents. My group has also received the necessary letters. It is clear that in Haren there is the necessary opposition to this merger, both from the present minority college and from a currently existing political majority in the council and part of the population. Positive reactions have also been received from the population, such as from the Kansrijk Haren group. I would like to mention that the Haren City Council has previously stated that the municipality of Haren cannot remain independent. In the two statements of reply, the Minister addressed in detail the questions raised in the file. Those who read the various reports correctly must note that they show different interpretations in their analyses and conclusions. They explain the different conclusions that are being drawn. The difference of opinion focuses on a the meaning of the supposed improved financial position and b the care taken by the reclassification procedure. The financial situation in Haren has improved in a number of respects over the past year. For that, the city council deserves a great compliment. On the other hand, there have been substantial increases in charges and significant reversals in local facilities. In the meantime, we must understand that, according to the latest annual reports, there is still a fragile financial perspective. The debt position is apparently still strong and the equity position is apparently still quite thin. We also agree with the Minister in this regard. It notes that the financial situation is not the only one, let alone the decisive criterion for deciding whether or not to merge. Our conclusion from all this is that there is sufficient basis to decide on this merger, i.e. in the context of future-proof and qualitative local governance. Mr. Chairman. In the written preparation, we specifically asked for the care and legality of the reclassification process, in particular whether the ARHI Act and the procedure prescribed therein were correctly followed. This point is all the more important to us in a reclassification which is not fully endorsed by all the municipalities concerned. The Minister replied, on the basis of a detailed description of the procedure, that, in view of the particular circumstances, the process was properly and in accordance with the procedural requirement. We must understand from this that the county administration had persistent concerns about the position of the municipality of Haren. These also existed within the city council and a part of the inhabitants. The city council of Haren, supported by a coalition majority, was not prepared to consult with the municipalities of Groningen and Ten Boer. For this reason, the province started an open consultation under the ARHI Act in 2016. In this respect, the province did indeed deviate from the previously formulated principle that it would not, in principle, take the initiative for reclassification proposals if there was no support from the municipalities concerned. This step was justified by a reference to reclassification processes initiated in the rest of the province in response to the findings of the Visitation Committee on Administrative Future Groningen, the Jansen Committee, and the refusal of the Municipality of Haren to consult the Groningen neighboring municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u90	Is Mr Engels not wrong in quoting the position of the province here? It is not the case that in principle it will not impose a reclassification if there is no support for it. The verdict was absolutely absolute: we will not impose a reclassification if there is no basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u91	I base myself on the response. In it, the Minister described how the reclassification process has been conducted. That's where I get this wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u92	So Mr Engels' version of this does not come from the documents of the province, but from the documents of the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u93	Yes, I do base myself on the response. By the way, the question is whether or not the Minister understood the province correctly. I think so, but there is also a political dynamic behind the starting point of the province A and the province B. I'll talk to you about that later. In order to prevent citizens, businesses and institutions as well as the staff of the Municipality of Haren from being harmed by the choice of the municipality to suspend its participation in the reclassification process, Deputy States have requested an external mediator to include Haren's interests in the further reclassification process and subsequently to establish them, both in a governance agreement and in a covenant. Mr. Chairman. My group considers this state of affairs outlined by the Minister to be plausible and acceptable. Although the administrative and social support for a reclassification is of course of great importance, this cannot always be decisive. As highlighted in the Municipal reclassification Policy Framework, a reclassification should preferably benefit from the support of all the municipalities concerned. That does not alter the fact that other considerations can and sometimes even have to prevail. In other words, there is a misunderstanding about the fact that reclassifications on the basis of the law and the policy framework can only be made from the bottom up. For my group, too, the fragile administrative power and financial position of Haren, the regional context and the sustainability of the reclassification are important aspects. It is indeed uncertain whether the recent measures taken by the Municipality of Haren to improve governance and financial position will be sufficiently future-proof. This risk makes it reasonable and understandable to arrive at a sustainable solution for all municipalities in the region. Our concern is that ongoing discussions about their administrative future will lead to further administrative stagnation and political instability. Having said this, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u94	Mr. Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u95	Of course, it is not certain that the financial measures taken by the Municipality of Haren will have the long-term effect that Haren is fully sustainable in its ability to save itself. But is it not clear at the moment that the financial situation can only get worse by merging with Groningen for Haren? You can see that Haren's finances are under control and reserves have increased to over 9 million. Merging with Groningen means that at least Haren will end up in a more financially vulnerable situation than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u96	I understand this speech by Mr Ten Hoeve, of course. This has to do with the fact that we are looking at this dossier from a different perspective. It also means that from that different perspective we are different in how healthy the financial situation of Haren is at the moment. In view of the perspective I have outlined, therefore, we are looking in particular at the future of local government, as well as all other factors that play a role in whether or not municipalities are merged, my group considers that there are insufficient indications that there is no risk for the Municipality of Haren in all financial aspects, although they have been improved. We do not believe that this is possible, nor that it will continue to be the case in the long term. I also say that we must not forget that certain measures had to be taken to make the financial situation of Heren healthy or better: to increase revenue and to reduce expenditure. This means an increase in local taxes and reversals in the level of local facilities. And assuming that it would already be established that after the merger with the municipality of Groningen there would be a huge increase in the burden for the citizens who are still living in Haren and that it would be at the expense of local facilities, I feel more comfortable with what my colleague Mr Huijbregts has said: all this remains to be seen. Moreover, I think that this new municipality, with a new city council and a new administration, has a very heavy responsibility to give good attention to these aspects and to pursue a good policy there, especially in order to restore confidence in a majority of the municipality of Haren at that level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u97	From now on, I'm giving everyone the opportunity for one interruption. So one interruption, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u98	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear you talking about what you provide for effects when Haren comes to Groningen, and about what should all be better. But what measurable, verifiable indicators can you describe in concrete terms to which this reclassification should then be measured? What's to you when Haren gets to Groningen? Then how can you check that these effects will actually occur? That is completely unclear, because on the one hand you say that the financial aspect is not leading, but on the other hand you say that the municipality is under financial pressure. This is used as a reason for the reclassification. So what are the most important indicators for you now to check whether a reclassification is effective, in this case the reclassification of Haren?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u99	Mr President, I will try to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u100	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u101	Then, to begin with, we will return to the report of the Jansen Committee. I happened to be at the presentation. What I remember is that the Jansen Commission has been very clear about the administrative power of the existing Groningen municipalities. I remember, in particular, the very significant sentence: 'Because you have all fled many times in cooperation, you have left the citizen in the cold'. Well, that's a firm statement, but it's a reasonable summary. What is the problem? That's actually point 1. Point 2 is the examination of legislative proposals on the merger of municipalities. We have a policy framework for this. We also have the ARHI Act, which deals with the legality of the procedure. I'll get to that in a minute. That is the policy framework with the criteria for sustainability, for cohesion in the region, for governance, for financial position. Those are the benchmarks. On this basis, I believe that the government is sufficiently motivated that, especially in the light of all the other reclassification proposals in Groningen involving all the municipalities, there is every reason to assume that those criteria will be met even after the reclassification of the municipality of Haren. So that's the frame you're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u102	Mr. Ten Hoeve, even for you now one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u103	Mr Engels and I agree on those criteria in the ARHI system. There are all kinds of possibilities and they can be used in general. But in the situation of Haren, the way this happened is also a factor. If you look at the situation and see what the balancing framework should be for the city council and the residents of Haren, you have to note that finances are improving rapidly at the moment. That is indeed what taxes have been increased for. It'll cost a lot of provisions. But despite these tax increases, taxes in Groningen for companies and institutions are still 90% higher. So what's the future perspective? It has been very explicitly stated in advance that Haren was allowed to choose for herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u104	I do not think it is up to the First Chamber to interfere with the tax policy of any municipality, certainly not with that of a new municipality. I have already tried to point out that, of course, if this municipality is to be established and started on 1 January, it is important that the responsible directors should develop policies for financial management. That's also local autonomy. They must take into account the burden on citizens. Of course, they will see if they have to do something with this in one way or another, also in the light of the original burden burden on the municipalities of Ten Boer and Haren in relation to Groningen. But I cannot make a statement on that at the moment, if it were up to us to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u105	Mr. Köhler, one interruption, too. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u106	Mr Engels referred to the report of the Jansen Committee. He thought that the municipalities in Groningen had fled too much in cooperation structures. This could be eliminated or restricted by the municipal reclassifications. Can Mr Engels indicate which partnerships in the province of Groningen can be terminated after the three merging proposals that have now been put forward by us in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u107	No, he can't. He's not about that either. I am talking about Mr Engels; hence the third person. The municipalities must decide for themselves what happens after an overall merger of municipalities in the province of Groningen, i.e. after a reduction in the number of municipalities. It is, of course, an illusion to think that there will be no administrative cooperation afterwards. The essential point here is, I think, that these municipalities will have to consider what tasks they can perform, unlike in the past, much more fully and independently, in the interests of their citizens. That therefore requires a certain level, otherwise they will be told by the citizens. Of course, there are reasons, sometimes prescribed by law, but sometimes also by others, for management effectiveness. Municipalities will continue to work together. The advantage of merging is that at least the number of participants in a common scheme is substantially reduced. This can, of course, benefit both the ability to act and the decision-making capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u108	Mr. Köhler, I won't let you. The debate with Mr Engels is extensive from all sides. I think I'm very generous. Mr. Engels, I would ask you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u109	I'm not allowed to respond to Mr. Köhler's smiling smile anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u110	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u111	Okay. Then today I will swallow this again bravely. Not that that takes a lot of effort, by the way. Mr. Chairman. However, there is reason to dwell on an issue which my group does not think has been properly removed. The many e-mails that my group colleagues and I have received and the conversations I have had on the ground show that there are still very different interpretations and experiences regarding the care and consistency of the process. Earlier in the productions of the Citizen Committee and recently in the letter of two professors of the University of Groningen, who live in Haren, it is maintained that the process is mostly flawed by... I am now using my own summary.. an incorrect representation of things, political opportunism and administrative powerplay on the part of the province and the government. According to persistent rumours, a secret agreement made in the province house would be based on "knowing and/or knowing." Involvement of The Hague." The letter writers argue that this political agreement is counter-empty, since from the outset the province directed to one outcome and pushed through a merger with political power not wanted by a majority of the council and the population. They call on this Chamber to enforce an independent investigation, which could show that the secret agreement actually exists and that it is automatically null and void for breach of the law and/or good morals. I assume that Mr Köhler will come up with this, but this has not yet been mentioned. So he'll be glad I brought it up. He's laughing again; that's a good sign, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to stress that my group too can fully understand the continuing disappointment and anger of the inhabitants of Haren who have spoken against the reclassification, not all of them. The same applies to the similar feelings that exist with a majority of the current municipal administration. We are also aware that this Chamber has a responsibility in relation to the legality of legislation. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister if she has any indication of the existence of a secret political agreement. I would also like to hear whether she believes that such a political agreement, if it existed, would be contrary to the law. Would this then have to or could lead to the supposed legal effect of a legally void agreement? We are asking this question because, in our view, this representation of things can no longer remain above the market. I would like to ask the Minister to respond to this issue so that a line can be drawn from a long debate. In conclusion, Mr President, can I indicate in the first term... I'll keep it to myself for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u112	One interruption, too, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u113	Certainly, Madam President, thank you very much. In his speech, Mr Engels has given a number of indications as to how it should be about, for example, finances and the like, but in the last few minutes he has touched on the crucial point that in the Municipality of Haren there seems to be no confidence whatsoever in the process. How should this trust be restored within such a community? Does Mr Engels have any suggestions for this? That seems to me to be the most crucial question at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u114	I kind of stuck to that, because the question is whether this is the crucial question. The crucial question is much more about the beginning of my speech: what is your vision of the future of national government, what is the place of local government in it, what does that say about and what does that mean for, for example, the merging of municipalities? That is the crucial point. In the First Chamber we have a special responsibility for the legality of legislation. I understand from conversations that this is very much alive on the citizens' committee. It lives with a part of the town council of Haren. Now it has been made very prominently in a letter that we recently received from two inhabitants. I have also seen that there are a lot of hesitations with a part of the population and the municipal administration. Because of the opposition to the merger, they have their own judgment. I don't share that judgment. But because of the task of the First Chamber, I think I should ask the Minister whether this is a real story or not. You ask what that can contribute to confidence. I am speaking hypothetically, because it is not my group's intention to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u115	Can that be a little concise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u116	Yes, Mr President, but this is a fundamental question. Now you've taken me all the way out. It will have to be done in the new municipality. The new municipal council will have to work on new trust, especially from the inhabitants of Haren. But this debate can perhaps help, in the run-up to this merger, to remove the feelings behind the letter I just mentioned, namely that people feel that they have been taken a little by the foot or that they have been put on the wrong foot by things that cannot be controlled. I'd like this to disappear from the table. At the time when we can see here that there is no political agreement and that there could never be a civil agreement which is automatically void or whatever, so that there is no illegality, this can, among other things, not only help restore citizens' confidence. 'Cause there's a lot of pain in there. I noticed that. That is why I explicitly mention this point. In conclusion, I can say that my group will support the proposals, on the understanding that we await the Minister's response to the point I have just mentioned with regard to the reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. It is now important that the legislative process is completed in this Chamber today and tomorrow, so that the municipalities concerned can now fully focus on an appropriate merger process, the preparation of the council elections and a good start for the new municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u117	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing 12 legislative proposals aimed at bringing together 38 municipalities to 12 new municipalities. The main reason is that today's municipalities lack the administrative capacity, due to their small size, to carry out the tasks they currently have, partly through decentralisation. In order to assess these merger proposals, my group is looking at the experience with municipal reclassifications from the recent past. They almost always lead to larger municipalities, with drivers at a greater distance. Moreover, practice shows that reclassifications usually do not result in savings and therefore do not improve the level of provision for citizens. For this reason, the SP Group believes that the merging of municipalities should be handled with caution. And if it is considered that municipalities should be merged, the opinion of the citizens of the municipalities concerned should be taken into account, for example by holding a referendum. In our view, the municipality is not primarily the city council, but primarily its citizens. They should have the most important voice about lifting and merging their congregation. In this, our approach differs from that of the Minister. It looks above all at the position of the municipal authorities and, if they disagree, at the position of the provincial government. A striking example is the way the minister looks at the merger of the five municipalities in the Hoeksche Waard. She argues that although three of the five municipalities are opposed, if you add up the majorities and minorities in the five municipalities, the supporters and opponents of the merger are broadly balanced, that social institutions prefer to deal with one municipality and that improved municipal cooperation is not possible either, and therefore the province rightly cuts the knot and advises the municipalities to merge. We note that not only three of the five municipalities, but also more than two thirds of the inhabitants of these municipalities voted against the merger in a consultative vote. Unfortunately, the Minister does not give any value to this in her assessment. We believe that the various studies do not show that existing partnerships do not provide adequate services for the inhabitants of the Hoeksche Waard. However, there are persistent differences of opinion as to how the common arrangements can best be managed. But that is absolutely insufficient reason to impose a merger on the municipalities concerned from above, isn't it? I would ask the Minister once again to address the need for this merger, in the light of the fact that the majority of the municipalities concerned and of the inhabitants are opposed to this merger. Mr. Chairman. The merger of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard also ignores the views of the inhabitants, especially those of Arkel and Schelluinen. These villages lie against Gorinchem and the inhabitants are therefore oriented towards them in daily life. In Arkel a survey was conducted with the result that 1,088 inhabitants prefer to join Gorinchem and 521 residents for joining Molenwaard. The Minister then concludes that the inhabitants of Arkel are divided and that this does not undermine sufficiently the preference of the municipalities of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard to go undivided, while there is no further serious argument for that association, including Arkel. Well, that's one way to deal with people's opinions, but the SP Group doesn't think that's the right way to do it. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, I come to the mandatory merger of the municipality of Haren with the municipalities of Groningen and Ten Boer. We cannot escape the impression that, despite interim claims that the discussion was open, the removal of Haren as an independent municipality was established. And the written consultation with the Minister did not take away this impression. My group draws the following conclusions from the reports from Haren and from the province. Firstly, it is clear that the vast majority of the inhabitants of Haren and of the municipal administration are opposed to the merger. In the last municipal elections, the parties that Haren certainly did not want to join Groningen achieved more than 60% of the votes. Those who did, didn't get a quarter of the vote. At the same time, three quarters of the voters voted against a merger with the municipality of Groningen. There is also no preference from social institutions and entrepreneurs for merging the municipalities. In Haren, therefore, there is absolutely insufficient support for the proposed merger. I'd like a response from the Minister. Secondly, the main argument put forward by the county administration for the abolition of the municipality of Haren was the weak financial position of the municipality. But the province offered the municipality the alternative to come out on its own. And that's what the city did. The 2017-2020 multi-annual budget includes a reversal package of a total of €8 million, increasing the solvency ratio from 13% in 2016 to 26% in 2020. The annual accounts of the past years and the 2018 perspective paper show that Haren is amply realising these reversals. Professor Allers I believe I understand that he is a colleague of Mr Engels, not the least member of the COELO, the Centre for the Research of the Economy of the Lower Governments, concludes after research that the Municipality of Haren can solve its own financial problems with this improvement plan and that the financial position is not a good reason for municipal reclassification. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is striking that all the key financial figures of the municipality of Haren are at present better those of the municipality of Groningen: the solvency rate, the percentage of reserves and the structural space in the budget. And the extent of land exploitation and the associated risks is much lower in Haren than in Groningen. You would almost think that the merger proposal is intended to strengthen the financial position of the municipality of Groningen. But in that case, the province and the minister should be honest about that. I'd like a response from the Minister. Now that the financial argument is no longer valid, the Minister mentions two other arguments for lifting the municipality of Haren. Firstly, the lack of administrative power, in particular, as demonstrated by its further answers, is the lack of official power to carry out all the extensive tasks of the municipality properly. But that hasn't turned out to be the case in the town of Haren. For example, the Social Support Act is carried out by Haren independently and as far as is known to be satisfactory. Now you can find that a municipality with 20,000 inhabitants is by definition too small to carry out the contemporary tasks of a municipality properly. I listened to this, for example, in Mr Engels' approach, according to whose criteria the municipality of Amsterdam is not yet large enough to continue as an independent municipality. But I do not assume that the Minister takes that view, so I ask her to be sure. Secondly, the Minister cites the argument that it is appropriate for regional cooperation that the municipality of Haren should go together with the municipalities of Groningen and Ten Boer. But why is this necessary? The municipalities of Groningen and Ten Boer have indicated that Haren's participation in the merger is not necessary. The municipality of Haren already cooperates properly in various regional partnerships. And the combination of Haren and Groningen and Ten Boer makes no less need for a common arrangement, because all the partnerships also involve other partners. In view of what Mr Engels said, which I really had to laugh about, I would like to comment on the argument that the Minister also mentions, namely that the municipal merger reduces the number of partners in a wider partnership. Yes, of course it is by definition. If there's ten partners and you put four together, there's only seven left. But the meaning of this communication escapes me completely. Surely it is not the case that this will make these partnerships work better? On the contrary, I would say. If one large partner, like the municipality of Groningen in this case, completely surpasses the other remaining partners, this partnership could be working worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u119	Mr. English. And I said, "Everyone gets one interruption."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u120	I'll stick to that, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to these partnerships and their future after a merger throughout the province of Groningen, the aspect of the number of participants in a partnership is one aspect. There is no doubt that the fewer participants there are in a common arrangement, the greater the chances of making decisions more effective. The second point is that there is another issue. It is not just about the quantitative question of how many participants there are. The point is that, if the merged municipalities start on 1 January and can then increase their administrative power, they will have to consider which of the existing partnerships they want to continue and which ones they do not. I mentioned this point, and you did not mention it at all, but it was even more essential that it is therefore really important for these municipalities to check that, in relation to the real policy tasks, which are important for citizens and for which quality is required, efforts are being made to do as much independent on the content as possible. Where more administrative tasks can benefit from efficiency gains through cooperation, and the problem of municipal councils being far too distant is also much less, these are still two important benefits. But that is to explain what my group thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u121	That's not a question, it's an explanation. So he doesn't need an answer either, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u122	I am also pleased with the explanation, because I can respond to that. First of all, that last point, that together efficiency gains will be achieved. This is not in line with existing experience. In general, it is true that various studies also show that cooperation between municipalities does not lead to efficiency gains. Sometimes to the contrary, but generally it does not lead to efficiency gains.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u123	Mr. English, I said... You can say one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u124	Mr. Chairman. I said that if municipalities want to work together to achieve efficiency gains, it is a very different remark than if Mr Köhler is now making an argument about what I would think of the efficiency of the merger. That's really another point. You'll have to respond to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u125	I thought you said that was also a reason for these mergers, a positive reason, and that is what I am contradicting. But if you meant otherwise, perhaps you can explain that to us in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u126	Let us finish this discussion at this late hour and wait for tomorrow for the second term and also for the Minister's reply. In my opinion, this would be of the greatest benefit to everyone and also to the discussion itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u127	Mr. Chairman. As far as cooperation is concerned, I would like to go into more detail, particularly in view of the large speaking time I have left, particularly the point that not only at Haren, but also elsewhere in Groningen, municipalities would be more self-sufficient by merging and that they would therefore have to surrender less to cooperation. I don't see it that way. I have listed all these collaborations in Groningen and in my opinion none of the municipalities in the province of Groningen will reduce the number of partnerships. That does not have to be the only reason for wanting to merge these municipalities. They can have many reasons, but the argument that they can do more of their own tasks on their own is not valid, because that is not the case. For some of the important tasks that municipalities now perform together, much more scaling up would be needed in order to do so. So we don't think that's an argument, at least not a valid argument to be in favour of that merger. And at least when merging or abolishing the municipality of Haren it is clear that it does not lead to fewer partnerships. Mr. Chairman. We are curious about the Minister's response to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u128	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-5.u129	Then I'll suspend the meeting for a break until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning.
