ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u1	We are now going to the debate with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I warmly welcome. The debate is about an experiment with more flexible welfare rules in Amsterdam. I give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD Group. Speaking time is exactly four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I told you before: it's bizarre that as a hardworking Amsterdammer you have to read that your municipality provides people with the assistance of free money without having to do anything in return. And when they end up working part-time, they may earn an additional €200 each month in addition to their benefit for another two years. How is this gonna be explained? Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that the welfare allowance is a great asset for people who are forced to find themselves in a situation where they are deprived of income. But the assistance is a temporary provision, and it is precisely in return that it can help to get back to work as quickly as possible from the assistance. Amsterdam doesn't think so. At the mouth of alderman, Amsterdam announced that it would launch its own experiment with regular assistance. An own experiment, because Amsterdam is not allowed by the Ministry of Social Affairs to participate in the national experiment. The Secretary of State was very clear about that in her letter. Instead of Amsterdam now focusing all its energy on guiding people to a job, they have spent all their time searching for opportunities to keep people in benefits and then make them earn something within the framework of the law. They found that possibility in Article 31, part j. This may be a bit technical, but this article makes it possible to pay a periodic premium. It is a contribution intended to pay out to people who have been actively engaged in activities aimed at labour integration. Amsterdam is now going to use this premium as an additional earning space. So if you go to work next to your benefit, you turn in your salary first, and after six months, you get a cut in return. Doesn't sound very attractive to me and actually also antisocial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u3	It seems as if Amsterdam is doing something criminal here, but if I have read the letter of the Secretary of State very well, this can be done within the law. So there's no problem at all. So what does Mrs. Nijkerken want? Does Mrs Nijkerken want the Secretary of State to drag Amsterdam in and put it on the bench?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u4	If Mrs Voortman lets me finish my text, she can hear what I want from the Secretary of State. I'm just stating that this is allowed within the law. I can find a lot of things about that, but that is also the freedom of the municipality's policy. Apparently, the city council has found that this is a smart solution. Me and the VVD don't think this is a smart solution, because I think you're gonna put in a bounty for extra earning space. With that, you're holding people in social security while you can better guide them into the extra-earning room to real work. You and I differ on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u5	GroenLinks was against the Participation Act for many reasons. The VVD was in favour, so if there's anyone who made this possible, it was the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u6	I can still say that the premium room is already well-established before the Participation Act, when there was no additional earning space available. As a VVD we said at the time: it is good if there is also a piece of extra earning space for people who from nothing also accept temporary jobs as a stepping stone to real work. The fact that you work there also pays off and leave something to it for a while is not a problem. But we would not choose to use this premium scheme as an additional earning area. The issue here is that Amsterdam does not comply with the law, because they do not carry out the compensation. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u7	That is an important point. I think the VVD has requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u8	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u9	Amsterdam has a VVD-college if I'm right. The VVD is in the Amsterdam College, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u11	So I thought: I'm gonna wait until the moment comes when the VVD here indicates exactly what it's done to ensure that its colleagues in Amsterdam didn't do what the VVD is now criticizing, which I part of it, anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u12	The VVD Group in the Amsterdam Council has also acted against this. But we are also dealing with democracy and majorities. I respect them, but that does not mean that I cannot express my opinion and what the VVD's opinion is on this matter. I would like the Secretary of State to talk to the municipalities in order to introduce that consideration, because it is not for nothing. It's not there to bully people, it's there to help people get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u13	This is unbelievable, isn't it? We now have a council that apparently doesn't comply with the law. That is what the honourable Member of the VVD says. But at the same time the VVD is in the college and is therefore the one who does not comply with the law in Amsterdam. The VVD spokesperson says here: listen, I also have my own opinion. The point is that the VVD has incredibly many kilos of butter on her head. It is up to the VVD to solve that; I agree. So what is the proposal that the VVD is putting here in the Chamber to ensure that the VVD in Amsterdam, the college in Amsterdam, is going to abide by the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u14	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u15	Well, that's very easy. We have also included a passage on this in the coalition agreement. That's what I'm going to go on now. I am going to call on the Secretary of State not only to talk to Amsterdam, but to talk to several municipalities that are not currently implementing the consideration as it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u16	I object to this. Also in the letter from the Secretary of State it is clear that it can be done. I want to take out of the blue and out of this debate that what Amsterdam does is not allowed. No, it's okay. What was the purpose of the Participation Act? It has been debated for a very long time, with all kinds of different opinions. The aim was precisely to give municipalities the space to choose their own interpretation. Amsterdam does that, with the VVD in the college. But now the VVD says nationwide: it can't be done. Can you or can you not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u17	As I have just said: Amsterdam has searched and searched, but that time, as far as I am concerned, could have been better spent in guiding people to work. They found room in that premium scheme. The Secretary of State has decided to do so and has informed the Chamber. I'll take note of that. What should not be done and therefore Amsterdam should not be allowed to participate in the national experiment, is that they do not comply with the consideration. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Van Dijk, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the case of the compensation, too, each municipality is entitled to implement it. That's what Amsterdam does. I can also imagine that very well, because that is the whole idea. People in Den Helder may need other guidance than people in Amsterdam. Then give that city that space. The VVD was talking about free money and stuff. It's not free money, it's a minimal income that you can barely make out of. Then you have to help people and then you have to give municipalities the space to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u20	My point is that that consideration helps that and that it is also only natural that if you get something, you do something in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr Jasper van Dijk is also here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u22	I'm really embarrassed about what's going on here and an incredible piece of populism. The VVD does selective shopping here. You always call on other parties: let them use their own local autonomy. Now such a municipality does that, it is approved by your own VVD Secretary of State.............................................................................................................................................. What kind of selective outrage is this? Do you recognise that you are definitely wrong and that Amsterdam can continue with this attempt to get people to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State's letter is very clear. If Amsterdam had fully implemented the law, they could simply have participated in the national experiment, an experiment that we have signed and which we have thought very carefully about. This is an experiment that allows us to examine all aspects of the law properly. Amsterdam does not carry out the consideration. This means that you miss the scientific basis, because the starting point of their approach is a very different one. So what matters to me is that consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u24	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mrs. Nijkerken is falling completely through the ice. It's not about the consideration at all. It is about the fact that Amsterdam wants to work with people who are on welfare, to help them get to work. I think that's a very good point for the VVD. But what are you doing? You are going to be squealing about that consideration, which is separate from this, because the Secretary of State has already said: this is allowed. Be magnanimous and say: good that Amsterdam is doing this. And then you're gonna hold back on all those other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u26	It is very clear that Mr Jasper van Dijk and I differ. As far as I'm concerned, it's about the consideration. Mr. Chairman. The Participation Act is also based on customization. Article 31, on which Amsterdam bases itself, also says: in so far as the college considers that this contributes to his employment. It cannot therefore be that the municipality of Amsterdam can promise and also grant the premium to anyone who signs up for the trial in advance. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether she agrees with me on this point and what this means for the test in Amsterdam. In addition, I see several municipalities that, when it comes to the mandatory consideration, do not accept the law, such as Utrecht, Zwolle, Breda and Eindhoven. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what action she is going to take against these municipalities. Is she willing to discuss this with these municipalities? It can't be that municipalities just ignore the rules, can it? I don't get that explained, especially to people who work hard every day to provide their own income. I have a final request for the Secretary of State. The test in Amsterdam is not part of the national experiment, so fortunately we could also read in the letter. The VVD therefore also expects that results of this will not be involved in the evaluation of the national experiment. Please confirm. Mr President, I will conclude. It's a good thing there's a social safety net for when things get tough. The VVD has even been at the origin of that safety net. But we think it is only natural that you do everything in your power to get out of the benefit as soon as possible and at the same time to return something for your environment. The consideration can simply be a stepping stone to work. As far as the VVD is concerned, the municipalities should focus their energy on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u27	The Amsterdam experiment is allowed by the Secretary of State and is allowed in accordance with the law. What's against taking those experiences with you at least to see if it works? We have those experiences after all. Why shouldn't you use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u28	Because the starting point is another. Amsterdam does not fully implement the law, because they do not comply with the requirement to introduce mandatory compensation. Then you compare apples with pears in terms of starting point. That is why I do not want these results to be taken into account in the municipalities that have complied with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u29	Surely the starting point should be to help people get to work? If it turns out that this experiment is helping people to work, isn't it more important than that a consideration has been put in place? The starting point is, isn't it, helping people get to work? The starting point isn't the consideration, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u30	The scientific basis of such research is, of course, extremely important, if you want to draw conclusions. That is why I think it is important that the starting point of the investigation for all municipalities is also the reason why we have struck together an AMvB with all these conditions. Then you can compare results and draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr President. 1963 was a turning point in the social history of the Netherlands. Because in that year, the first welfare law was adopted. A law also of the first female minister of the Netherlands, Marga Klompé. The basis of the law was that if, for whatever reason, you had fallen into poverty, you would no longer be dependent on gifts from others but could claim assistance. Klompé himself called it: from grace to justice. She later said in an interview that she wanted people with raised heads to appeal to that law. She wanted to prevent people from getting stigmas. Mr. Chairman. I think Marga Klompé would be very disappointed if she looked at the current situation. There are so many obligations that people have to fulfill that it seems to have turned from grace to justice to: from right to grace. Above all, you shouldn't think you're entitled to anything as a beneficiary. And the stigma that Klompé was afraid of is only reinforced by the current Participation Act. From all the rules and obligations there is such mistrust that it is clear what the image of welfare recipients is. The image of fraudsters, of people who do not want to work and who do not need to feel sorry for, the image of people who need to be dealt with strictly. This has already been demonstrated by the reactions in this Chamber to Amsterdam's actions to make people pay for the assistance. VVD, CDA and D66 were pressing to condemn this. People can't just get money, according to the VVD. The welfare is not a hammock, called the CDA. And we have to establish clearly what is and is not allowed, D66 said. While I think it's the most important thing to look at what works best to get people to work. That's the goal. And a law is only a means of achieving that goal. So, Mr. Chairman, I'm curious. Will these groups, now that it appears that what Amsterdam is doing is allowed to apologize to Amsterdam within the law? Or do they want to change the law and make it even stricter? It's two-and-a-half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u33	A point of fact for the Acts: D66 did not condemn it. We have indeed said that it would be good to have a debate with each other on what should and should not be done. But D66 also said that the previous Secretary of State was not very clear in how binding the consideration was. So I would ask Mrs Voortman to correct her argument on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u34	I'm really glad D66 says this. I hope that D66 will also say: good that this is allowed. And I hope that D66 will adopt a clear position on the consideration itself. That would certainly be a good thing, because so far D66 has not been clear on what they think of the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u35	There is an opinion from the Council of State stating that the consideration should not be an empty shell. It is not the case that a job seeker may choose not to use it himself. So a municipality has to include that in the regulation. Does GroenLinks agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u36	No, I do not agree that the consideration should be included in the regulation. I wouldn't think this should be mandatory. Yes, it is in the law, but as far as I'm concerned, we're deleting it. Now the law says it should be in the regulation. But you don't have to act on it. So here remains the point that D66 thinks: does D66 think that that consideration should be imposed, or can a municipality also say "I put it in the regulation, purely on paper, but I'm not doing anything else with it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u37	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u38	Okay. I won't do it again, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks believes in another way. We believe in positive attention. Attention to what people need. Attention to what drives them, with respect and space. And we are not alone in this, because a tour of five large and medium-sized municipalities shows that, regardless of the political colour of their administration, professionals all believe that attention works best. Does the Secretary of State agree? Does the Secretary of State therefore agree with me that with the current budgets for municipalities it is impossible to give sufficient positive attention to properly accompany all the people in the assistance? Wouldn't it be a good investment if municipalities were to be able to accompany people longer and more intensively, so that they eventually flow to work sustainably? Wouldn't that be better than the negative attention that comes from compensations, measures and discounts? Apart from what we want, politically speaking, we can differ. In any case, it would not be good to explore as widely as possible, in as many different ways as possible, what does and what does not work? Is it not important for us to be able to support our opinions with practical experience? What are we afraid of if we make the experiments so strict? I am still surprised that there is so little room for experimentation within the Participation Act. Why so little faith in municipalities? Mr. Chairman. So I am glad that Amsterdam is now going to experiment with extra earning within the Participation Act. Because unlike the VVD, I think this is how you help people work sustainably. I hope that other municipalities will follow this example. To what extent is the Secretary of State involved in experiments of municipalities that are not formally designated as experimental municipalities? Is she going to use the results of these experiments? I sincerely hope so, because it seems clear to me that there is still a lot to improve for people who are dying to get to work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The debate on decentralisation, municipal policy freedom and concrete situations in municipalities is repeated in this Chamber. Today we are talking about an experiment with the Participation Act in Amsterdam. At least that is what we think we are talking about, because the Secretary of State stated very clearly in her letter of 1 December that there is no mention in Amsterdam of an experiment with the Participation Act in the sense of an exemption from legal provisions, as described in Article 6 of the Temporary Decree Experimentation Participation Act, in conjunction with Article 83 (1) of the Participation Act. Then where do we have real experiments with the Participation Act? In Deventer, Groningen/Ten Boer, Nijmegen, Tilburg and Wageningen. D66 is very happy about that. Those experiments started in October last year, so it's too short a day to say anything meaningful about this. However, these experiments are based on clear frameworks and the aim is research: to investigate what does and what does not work. More freedom, fewer obligations and more can be earned in the assistance. In short, innovative policies. That's what D66 is for. But the frameworks for these experiments you're allowed to try things out? However, it has led us to look more closely at the law itself. For example, explanations have been requested from the Council of State for the consideration. The Council of State has stated that a regulation whereby the consideration is only voluntary is insufficient. In this way, the consideration is an empty shell. The government agreement also states that the cabinet will discuss with municipalities how they actively implement the existing consideration. This means that the regulation can no longer be an empty shell. That seems to us to be a very good thing, because in return it can be a very useful tool to get people back to work rhythm, to participate and to get in touch with other people. At the same time, it must remain the municipality's assessment whether it is useful for the beneficiary concerned or not. The municipalities can make that assessment the best. That is precisely what decentralisation is all about. Recently, a number of municipalities, including Amsterdam, investigated helping people in the assistance. It is striking that about half of the people in the assistance have already been given up for paid employment. About half! That is, converted to the whole country, possibly to some 200,000 people who are not, never again, being helped to work. They form, as we call it, the granite file. Does the Secretary of State want help to be given to these people in these cases? Municipalities have an important freedom in this, but experience because of financial pressure that they have to make sharp choices. So I understand that there are municipalities that say: when it comes to reintegration, we only invest in people who still have a job perspective. Does the Secretary of State understand this choice, or does she also want extra guidance for people who no longer have that perspective? If so, how do we pay for it? Will the Secretary of State argue, for example, that the additional funds made available to the Municipal Fund in the coalition agreement should be used, so that municipalities can now also focus more on this group? But more fundamentally, how big is this problem? Can the Secretary of State assess how many people are currently not receiving support in the search for work? Is it also thinking of the figure of 200,000 and could it perhaps have this examined more precisely? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u41	We just wanted to make sure that Mr. Raemakers wouldn't be gone before we got to the microphone; hence the sprint we made. I have a question about the consideration. D66, like the Council of State, says that the consideration should not be an empty shell, but if a municipality does put the consideration in the regulation but does not implement that provision, because it simply does not support it, what does D66 think of that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u42	I imagine municipalities have that view. Then they should send a letter to the Lower House asking whether we want to amend the law, but with regard to the current law, as it is, I think that the municipalities have to implement it and that it is precisely the intention that municipalities offer customization. I therefore believe that an individual beneficiary should be given the right not to pay the compensation. I also think that, based on the knowledge they have, for example on specific neighbourhoods, municipalities can say that they exclude certain groups. I think we should leave that to congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Raemakers talks a bit about it, because several municipalities have already indicated several times that they do not believe that the consideration works. Utrecht, among other things, has indicated that. The Secretary of State always said: even if you do not implement it, you have to put it in the regulation. So: as long as you put it on paper; the practice doesn't matter. That seems like a weird situation to me. I would say: let's trust local authorities and let's let them decide whether they will put the consideration in the regulation and whether they will then apply it. What would Mr Raemakers think of such an approach: trust in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u44	We have agreed in the government agreement that the Secretary of State will discuss with municipalities. That seems to me to be a good thing, because the previous approach, which Mrs Voortman thinks is undesirable, you may put it on paper, but you do not have to put it into practice. So we are very pleased that the Secretary of State is going to look more closely at how we are going to apply it. If Mrs Voortman says she wants to change the law, Mrs Voortman has to submit an own-initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u45	In our capital, three parties are on the board: the SP, the VVD and D66. Those three parties, with the alderman in the lead, are working hard to get people who are unemployed to work. Here in the Chamber, one party has an incredibly hard time with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u46	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u47	That party has even requested a debate on this issue. That is why we are spending our precious time on this. Don't you think it's a bit of panic football from that party...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u49	...of the VVD, to request that debate, since it has all been approved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u50	Clear. Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u51	I love soccer very much. On weekends I am also active as a coach and as a border judge and sometimes as a referee. But I don't think this is panic football, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u52	What a disappointment. You therefore support the VVD's panic football, which has requested the debate for which the reason is that we are all in fact agreed that it has completely lapsed now that the Secretary of State has said: "Amsterdam, go ahead. SP, D66, VVD, what you want to do there, you can do." Do you recognise that the reason for this debate has lapsed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u53	Yes, those who have listened well to my contribution can indeed conclude that the D66 Group thinks so. So in that sense, we agree with the spokesperson of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u54	Let me try to ask you differently. The VVD does not agree with what is happening in Amsterdam. That's the national VVD. That is possible, even though the VVD in Amsterdam is okay with it. Fine. Do you agree with the substance of what has been said here in the Chamber by the VVD? Do you agree with the substance of this criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u55	I made my own contribution today...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u56	At what points does D66 agree, quite precisely, with what has just been said by the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u57	I don't think it'll help people in the country if I give a precise analysis of where D66 differs from the VVD. I think that's what election campaigns are for. There is one point that I consider relevant and that is the link that makes the VVD fraction. In my view, that is wrong. The experiment they do in Amsterdam, which falls within the limits of the Participation Act, is independent of the consideration. The Secretary of State talks about this with the municipality of Amsterdam and other municipalities. I think that's very good, but that doesn't change the fact that the experiment is allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u58	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u59	I will mention another specific point, because you want to hear all kinds of differences; you will now have two. The VVD also says that the activities should focus on labour integration. This is stated in a particular article, in my opinion Article j. Work is, of course, an excellent job. So at that point too, D66 is something different from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u60	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u61	Nice pronunciation: work is an excellent job. I like that phrase. However, we can indeed see that you disagree with the VVD on the detail of the consideration, which is one big thing. We can determine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u62	Yeah, but you can do that in the second term. An interruption is really meant to have a discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u63	But I have to respond to this, Mr President, because this is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u64	Well, very briefly. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u65	We agreed in the government agreement on the compensation. That's what D66 stands for. What we do not agree with is the link between the consideration and this particular 'experiment' in Amsterdam. So at that point we disagree with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u66	D66 is indeed in the lecture in Amsterdam. Of course, we are not having debates here at municipal level. This is the House of Representatives, so I certainly do not understand why we are having this debate. This should be done to a large extent in the city council. What's the case? A statement has been made to which I would like to have a response: Amsterdam does not want to introduce the so-called mandatory compensation. Amsterdam does not want to introduce the so-called counterpart. What does the D66 Group think of that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u67	At least those aren't my words. I don't know who she did say, and it doesn't matter. We choose to instruct the Secretary of State to discuss the consideration with municipalities. We are also very curious about what comes out of it, but I don't need a particular conviction of municipality A or B.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u68	I understand that, of course, because it's the alderman who said this. And Amsterdam is a big city, the capital. Of course it should happen everywhere, but if there is one place that you should expect the municipality to comply with the law, that is Amsterdam. So what does the D66 Group want the Secretary of State to do, other than talk about it, to ensure that Amsterdam is just going to comply with the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u69	Nothing, because in the coalition agreement we said that the Secretary of State will be discussing it. So that's all we want. Depending on the outcome of that conversation, we have a new situation and we will have to look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Chairman. Long-term poverty is increasing in the Netherlands, headlined the NIS yesterday. 224.000 households have been living in poverty for longer. 15,000 more than the year before. In total, 590,000 households live in poverty according to the CBS. This includes a few hundred thousand children. In addition, more than half a million people living in poverty have jobs. So there is a problem, not only with benefits but also with wages. The social minimum is too low. Does the Secretary of State share my view that poverty should not be necessary in a rich country like the Netherlands? If she agrees with me, should we not increase the lowest wages and benefits? It really fights poverty. It would suit a prosperous country, and it would especially suit a government that wants everyone to participate. We are talking today about the possibilities of helping people in welfare work. I very much agree with that. It is good if people work; for a decent wage of course. Most of the people who sit at home are eager to get to work. In general, unemployment is not so much the fault of the unemployed. Aldermen do all kinds of things to get people to work. We read the week that Amsterdam is doing well. 23,000 people have been working for the last four years. The friendly approach of the capital with a lot of guidance is therefore successful. Now Amsterdam, like many other municipalities, wants to experiment with even more opportunities for people to earn extra money in the assistance. I would like to welcome that rather than discourage it. It concerns a multitude of people: people who have been unemployed for a long time, people on the sidelines, the elderly or welfare mothers with children. We have to try to help these people in every way we can. This is a task for the municipalities. In my opinion, then, we should not be faint here in The Hague, but give these aldermen the room to do so. The good news is that the Secretary of State has approved Amsterdam's working methods. The reason for this debate has just been thrown into the sand like a leaky ball. I wonder what the VVD wants to do now. It is not quite clear to me after Mrs Nijkerken's input. To be honest, I find it all quite hypocritical. First transfer all kinds of tasks to municipalities and then start squeaking. Where's your liberal breast, Mrs. Nijkerken? If you would like to tackle fraud, for example in the case of welfare workers, I agree with that. Fraud is not possible. But don't shop selectively. Then deal with fraud everywhere, including with carers, money laundering and all those VVD drivers that we have seen in recent years when it comes to integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u72	I would very much like to leave all these words to Mr Van Dijk. My question to him is what he is so opposed to in return. Do you not agree with me that people get back into contact with others and are being activated, and that this can be a very good step towards work? Why are you so opposed to that? It's only natural for you to return the favor, isn't it? Afterwards, people are often very happy that they have taken that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u73	I think it is very important that the municipalities and the government do as much as possible to help people get to work. So do the municipalities, the civil servants and job coaches. Please trust me and trust those people, Mrs. Nijkerken. That's the point: you don't trust them. You come here with all sorts of coercive measures to get them to do what you want so badly. It's all come from mistrust. The most important thing is that this is not the subject of this debate. The subject of this debate is the opportunity that Amsterdam wants to have for people to earn extra money. It was approved by the Secretary of State. You should admit that. The reason for this debate has lapsed for you, and you are trying to talk about this in return, but that is not what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u74	I believe that Amsterdam has been exposed in this respect. They pretended to participate in a very big experiment or to participate in that national experiment. The Secretary of State has been very clear about this: they are not participating in the national experiment and they are not allowed to participate in that national experiment, because they do not comply with the full law on the consideration. That's exactly where I'm in pain. It is already possible to earn extra money in the assistance at this stage, because there is an additional earning area: six months within two years, just for those small jobs. About what Amsterdam is about to do, I don't understand why you're not outraged. If you start earning extra money, you may not earn extra money in six months, as the legislation now states. No, they'll have to give up their side-serve in full first. Then they have to wait six months,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u75	It's a long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u76	But this does hit the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u77	It's gotta be really short. The same applies to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u78	I don't understand why you're not indignant about that, because we're not helping these people at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u79	Anyone who understands this interruption will receive a plume from me. It was all pretty technical talk. The essence is that Amsterdam is working to help people in the assistance to work. How beautiful can it be? However well that should fit into the VVD programme, I would say. But what are we doing here? We must have a debate here today because the VVD does not approve of what is happening. Amsterdam has been successful in helping people in the assistance to work, despite the tough cuts made in recent years; on guiding to work, in the Participation Act. There are now many people living below the poverty line, all thanks to the VVD, and yet every time it is the VVD who sits here angry about these kinds of points. I would like to say: stop selective shopping, focus on the bigger business. That is why my proposal is for the Secretary of State to be inspired by this example from Amsterdam. The additional earning opportunities are now nationally limited to a six-month period for people in the assistance. That's kind of short. That is why my proposal is to extend that additional income scheme nationwide to one year. Then someone will have a little more time to prepare for a real job, because I think we all do. Mr. Chairman. Poverty is increasing, because the social minimum is too low to live on. That's something that needs to be dealt with. Furthermore, we need to encourage and not punish municipalities that want to help people to work. I trust you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mr. Chairman. The reason for the debate may have fallen, but we welcome it. What Amsterdam does is allowed, and tribute to the VVD-alderman Van der Burg, who also supported it. We thus have the opportunity to perhaps go a little wider and to support experiments even better, for example in the Voortman motion to look at the broad concept of prosperity. Can we see what can happen with that? Religious scientists say that these experiments, as they are now set up, can actually do a little better. Aldermen experience that the Participation Act, the intention of which was to decentralise, with fewer rules, might actually lead to more rules. The practitioners also believe that there is actually more complex regulation. We can look at that now, because we do not need to talk about Amsterdam. I would like to address two points: the starting point for the current experiments and the guidance. The Animal Party believes that in carrying out the experiments, especially in the Participation Act, trust in this way is actually placed in the wrong place. I'll outline to you why we think so. We left the financial crisis, which caused billions of damage to the taxpayer, to the banking sector. If there are serious human rights violations in the clothing industry, then this government leaves it to the sector. The children are getting fatter, but this government leaves it to the sector to deal with it. I also mention manure fraud in Brabant: 64% of the sector has been fined, suspected or convicted. And what does this government do? It leaves it up to the sector to improve it. In short, in general, sectors of this government are given a wide range of jobs. At the same time, for example, we also see deliberate abuse and fraud by citizens in the area of benefits. It doesn't pick up at 1% or 2%, but it fluctuates between 1% and 3%. Maybe it's 10%. Maybe, but the reports indicate 1% to 3%. Yet those unemployed citizens are treated as criminals or seen as lazy, or compensations are demanded. That's the human image. In other words, what is wrong with this regulation? Trust is put in the wrong place. It is laid down in sectors where it has been shown that these sectors cannot handle it, but they are left free. It has been laid out to citizens when the abuse is actually very bad, but they are being controlled. Now I'm looking specifically at the VVD: that's what's wrong with the human image of the VVD. Trust is put in the wrong place. The second point. If you're doing an experiment, it's nice to know what's coming out of it. It would therefore be good if experiments were well substantiated and science involved. That is what is happening, but we also have a good example that shows that the government is not doing that again. For example, it is experimenting with 1.4 billion. Even the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats says 'we don't know if it works either'... 'but here you have 1.4 billion, otherwise..., blablabla'. It won't be checked any further. Good. Fine. The Participation Act does, however, explicitly do so. Experiments are being set up there, but there has been a lot of criticism from scientists. The question, the request, is therefore to listen to them with a positive human view so that we can see how we can improve these experiments. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. People don't live to work; they work to live. That's why this experiment room is so important. It needs to get even bigger, because the increased pace of work and the need for continuous performance create more stress. Instead of just continuing to try to increase the employment rate, it has to go up, it has to go up, we may have to go up to a shorter working week. That's what we need to find out...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u83	...or refine it. So, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u84	You've run out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u85	... we will table a motion for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u86	We can do that in the second term. Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u87	Thank you. It is a special debate today, because we are actually talking about Amsterdam, about the space that Amsterdam has and takes to help people get to work. It's okay. It's possible. That is also entirely legally possible. So you could say "thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna sit down again," but I'm not gonna do that at all. I will make a few points, because this is an important debate. It has been said that the profits of companies are rising, the economy is going well and society is getting better, but unfortunately there are still a lot of people who have a small income and are in poverty. Families are in poverty, whether they work or not, in welfare. That's crazy. Hundreds of thousands of people still cannot come, are in trouble and are looking for a certain basis to see perspective again. We all haven't managed that yet. I think it is a political challenge for all of us, from left to right, to stand up for these people and help these people. It's not fun when you're in poverty and it's not fun when you're in welfare, because it's not a big deal. That's hard, which not only means you're far away from work, but I've talked a lot to people, and you're getting further and further away from society. It's hard to look with a financial hole beyond just the next day. And that, in my view, is the political challenge and message for us here, namely to really tackle this. So my appeal to the coalition is: let's do that. Then what's it gonna take? I would like to mention three points. The first point is that we must give the municipalities room in the spirit of the Participation Act. We know the experimental communities that indeed meet all kinds of conditions so that they can also be compared. However, there are many more municipalities that are already saying: we take our space, we have the Participation Act and we know the rules but we know our people and we know exactly how to do that, so give us that space. And please don't let us go upstairs in The Hague and decide how municipalities should or should not take the measures to help people from welfare to work. So give municipalities room. Then there is the second point: personal attention. Many people in welfare experience that they are in a regular swamp and in an administrative system and that they can't get in touch with anyone. It is really the task of municipalities to pay personal attention to everyone, not just those who have perspective, who are in the assistance, and to look at how we are going to help such a person into work per person. Much has been experimented over the past few years, but this is really how we can get people to work, namely through personal attention and guidance. That can vary from one person to another, and we must accept that here in The Hague. Then there is my third and final point, and that is about the money. We talked about this in a round table sometime in March or April. Municipalities are worried, because there is really a deficit when it comes to the BUIG money, the benefits, but there is also a shortage of money when it comes to the participation budget to help people from the assistance to work. I ask the Secretary of State whether she sees it that way, how we can solve it and whether there is a budget available for it; Mr Rademakers also asked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr President, thank you very much. The welfare isn't a lab. The assistance is a safety net for those who need temporary support, for those who have fallen out of debt into a situation where they need financial assistance in the form of assistance. Assistance should therefore be protected so that people who really need it can continue to claim it in the future. And you don't do that by experimenting with welfare. What needs to be done is that municipalities maintain the existing rules. My first question to the Secretary of State is therefore very simple: which municipalities are not currently threatened with compliance with the logical rules surrounding the current assistance? I'd like a clear answer. In addition, the PVV wants to know how this cabinet is going to protect our welfare state, because during Rutte II the assistance became more than ever an immigrant benefit. 63% is ethnic and 53% is non-western ethnic. This costs about 3 billion euros a year. My question to the Secretary of State is: Isn't that right? I am asking this because I asked for this during the budget debate and I did not receive an answer at the time. Perhaps this is a question that is painful for the cabinet, but I would ask the Secretary of State to clarify it today. Mr. Chairman. These national figures are shocking, but when we look at Amsterdam, we see that we are completely giving away our welfare state. That is where the number of non-Western immigrants in the assistance is 68%. 68% of the recipients of assistance in Amsterdam are non-western immigrants. That costs about 400 million euros a year. We can't allow this any longer, can we? Surely we cannot accept that non-Western immigrants rob our welfare jars and continue to be a dead weight in our society? Surely we cannot allow Amsterdam and other municipalities not to maintain the language requirement or the consideration? That's untenable. This puts the sustainability of the assistance and our welfare state under heavy pressure. This is at the expense of the hardworking Dutch who, without the gratitude of the recipients, have to pay for this mistake. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has a number of proposals to protect and sustain the assistance for the future. Firstly, experiments on assistance should be stopped immediately and municipalities should be obliged to maintain the requirements and conditions for receiving assistance. Secondly, assistance payments from people who do not meet the language requirement should be withdrawn immediately. It should also be ensured that immigrants may not be entitled to assistance until they have lived and worked in the Netherlands for ten years and have not committed criminal offences. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to cut down on the Municipal Fund if municipalities do not comply with the enforcement requirements and do not comply with them? If not, why not? Isn't it perfectly normal for a municipality to carry out what is laid down by law? Is the Secretary of State prepared to take these measures? Mr. Chairman. There's something else I want to say. This debate has been requested by the VVD. I have just heard all kinds of municipalities pass by, also mentioned by the VVD Group, where everything is not as it should be in the interests of the assistance itself and the welfare state. Let it be the same that in almost all these municipalities the VVD itself sits in the college. So I would like to say that the VVD really has kilos of butter on its head. I hope that is a signal to the Secretary of State, who also knows the VVD quite closely, to take real action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u91	Mr. Chairman. It took me six hours to come to Parliament from Roermond; six hours to experience this debate. On the way I watched the debate. I come from Roermond, Limburg, the same city as the VVD'er Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. I thought, "What an embarrassing debate." What are we talking about? The whole country's working on the storm. The whole country is trying to save itself from what is happening right now, and the VVD is asking for a debate because welfare recipients are not allowed to earn €200. That's what the VVD is doing, Chairman. It's an embarrassing, embarrassing show when you're on the train or on the car to see this and talk to people around you about "what's the VVD up to?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u92	When I asked for this debate, I could not, of course, believe that a huge storm was raging across the country today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u93	No, I didn't, but you could have kept the VVDs from making millions. Yesterday we had a debate because the top drivers of 25 large companies earn 171 times more than the average employee. On the world ranking of countries that pay the richest people the most, we are fifth. That your party does not allow people living around the poverty line to pay €200, yes, you could have thought about that, even if there was no storm. Mr. Chairman. It is embarrassing that the day before yesterday we were given figures showing that there is enormous poverty. It is shameful that in the Netherlands even workers live below the poverty line and we are the fifth richest country in the world, while the VVD Group spends hours on this whole parliament earning more money in welfare for €200. While their own college in Amsterdam, with members of parliament who have now become MPs, Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, has agreed at that time, Mrs Nijkerken from Limburg is commissioned by the VVD group to make a number and put a little right-wing populism in the Chamber. If I were to calculate what this debate would cost society, it would also be embarrassing compared to the €200 that these people can earn extra money from. Anyway, let's do the debate then. Then the citizen can see who stands up for these people and who doesn't. What I also regret is that coalition colleagues CDA and D66 supported the VVD to conduct this debate. Was it a little coalition discipline? Didn't they want to give churches the space? I thought it was the VVD group that said freedom, local autonomy. And now they come up with the story: you can't make an extra $200. If I understand correctly, the VVD is now for a €200 envy fine for people with the lowest incomes, including for a marginal burden in the 100% assistance. As far as the VVD is concerned, each euro earned must be reduced on the benefit. The VVD is apparently against pilots and experiments that can better portray what really works in the Participation Act. Apparently, the VVD is against decentralisation if it's not convenient. I would like a reply from the Secretary of State on the points I have just mentioned. Is it also opting for 100% burden and against decentralisation and experimentation because of a right-wing dogma? Decentralisation has great advantages. Local representatives can best judge what works well and what does not work well at local level. But then The Hague should not act as a jammer. I almost wanted to say storm transmitter. Release is also an art. Apparently, this art has yet to master the VVD group. Apparently, the VVD Group has no confidence in its own Secretary of State and its own aldermen and council members in Amsterdam. The VVD has signed the coalition agreement in which the space for experiments is laid down, but this is now being called into question by the same VVD. What VVD am I dealing with? Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she can confirm once again that Amsterdam is operating within the rules of the Participation Act as far as it is concerned. I also read this in her letter of 1 December. Does the Secretary of State share my view that the Amsterdam project can be active and ultimately bring people closer to work? Does the Secretary of State share the view that this project can also lead to fewer undeclared work? What will happen if the Amsterdam project or other experiments produce a positive result? Is there room for her to do more experiments? Finally, Mr President. The DENK Group is against bashing and unnecessarily harassing benefit recipients. Rights and obligations must remain in balance. The Chamber has an important role to play in monitoring that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u94	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am speaking today on behalf of the Christian Union. After reading the letter from the Secretary of State, I wondered whether this debate would actually continue. The CDA thought it understood that Amsterdam refused to comply with parts of the Welfare Act or the Participation Act, but, as I read in the reply of the Secretary of State, this is based on a misunderstanding. It is true that the law is respected, but some things are not good in the regulation. Problem solved, I'd say. Simply amend that regulation and then still join the municipalities that are given official experimental space. That wouldn't just be nice for Amsterdam. That would also be nice for the Amsterdam welfare recipients. This debate will not even be necessary anymore. Three principles are important for the CDA. One: everyone abides by the law, including Amsterdam. Two: customization is paramount and it is explicitly intended to help everyone. Mr Van Dijk said it; I very much agree. We shouldn't write anyone off, even if that person seems to like it. The third point is that we like to experiment very much. The content of the experiments has been mentioned more often this afternoon by the city council. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. That's what I'm talking about. Because municipalities have only limited resources to help people get to work, they start thinking about how best to use these resources. For example, they make a quadrant and put people in boxes like that. People with a high risk of outflow without extra help go into one booth. People with chances of outflowing with help go into a different booth. People with a low risk of rapid outflow go into a next booth. And hopeless people with regard to paid labour go into the last booth. In the context of damage reduction, imagine in whatever language you can do with people in this case. And not at all anymore with people who actually need the most help. It is safe to say that municipalities effectively leave a very large group of people alone in practice. Mr. Raemakers said so. Others would say, "Let them cook in their soup." Unless, of course, there is a suspicion of improper use or fraud, because then these people were quickly found. But if you're quietly in the last square of the quadrant and you don't notice anything else, you'll hardly ever see anyone in the municipality again, then you're effectively abandoned. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the way we work now does not work well enough. People are not getting enough work and it is therefore good that there is room to see how things can be done better. Many municipalities do or want to do that: looking for space within the law, starting from stress reduction in people, searching for customization and being innovative. Because if we do not manage to get people to work or to spend a meaningful amount of time on the day, we will definitely exclude these large groups of people, and that can never be the intention. Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated once that I would like the government to behave like a good neighbour: always willing to help, but under conditions, for example, that the neighbor does what he can to need that help, that he himself cooperates in a solution and that he does not shut the door if I ever needed him. The idea of a return is not strange, but there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it. Customisation is required. Can the Secretary of State confirm that that is precisely the intention of Amsterdam, or not of course? Finally. The CDA strongly supports experimental space and the search for boundaries to achieve what needs to be achieved. Personally, I am also from the school that in some cases it is better to ask for ex post forgiveness than prior permission. But the statement of the alderman in the media gave us the idea that the law applies to everyone except Amsterdam and that Amsterdam refused to ask for a consideration in principle for everyone, which is something other than customization. Can the Secretary of State confirm once again that Amsterdam complies with the law? I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr President, I deliberately waited until the end of Mr Peters' contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u97	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u98	In the beginning of his speech, he indicated that he would like Amsterdam to join the national experiment. But if Amsterdam has found a way to help people without participating in the national experiment, what is against it? Isn't it about helping people in welfare? That's the goal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u99	But there's nothing against that. Madam President, there's nothing against that. I read in the letter that what Amsterdam does is allowed. As far as I am concerned, as far as the content is concerned, the city council decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman. I welcome this clarity, because for a moment I thought Mr Peters suggested that it would be best if Amsterdam joined the national experiment. But he is now saying, like us, that these two can perfectly co-exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u101	I think it would be easier for aid recipients in Amsterdam to participate in the national experiment, but that is what Amsterdam itself is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u102	Mr. Chairman. If people end up in a welfare situation outside their own fault, then of course you have to make sure that you help those people. But to keep the assistance sustainable at the same time, there are some rules. One of the things that goes with that is a consideration in terms of ability. At least that's what you'd expect. Now an alderman in Amsterdam says: I refuse to do so; I do not. What does the CDA Group think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u103	I actually expected the question from Mrs Voortman, but the CDA Group actually thinks... Mr Raemakers said it very well. Look, asking if anyone can do anything in return for society isn't that weird, but there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it. In practice it is a very good idea for some people and for other people it is not a good idea at all. I think that the municipalities should be able to do customization and look at each individual to determine: here it is a good idea or here it is not a good idea. If it is said "I do not follow that law," then the Secretary of State talks with that city. That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u104	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u105	Yes, Mr. Chairman. So this isn't about customization. I agree. Customization and looking at the individual are important. I understand that, but the sustainability of assistance is also very important at the same time. In Amsterdam they say, if I can believe the words of the alderman, that they are not going to do that at all. A conversation is fun, of course, but shouldn't there be a consequence if the alderman holds on to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u106	I'm gonna find out what the answer is. I asked that question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u108	Mr President, it is good that the CDA supports Amsterdam's approach. The VVD will be a bit alone in this way. Would it not be a good thing if the results of the Amsterdam method were also involved in the national results of the other experiments? Do you support the request to arrange that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u109	I think that is a very complicated one, because I do not know whether I will try to compare apples with pears, Mr Van Dijk. But I think it would be very wise to look at the results of each experiment anyway. There are many more municipalities that try to make the best of it in their own way, within the limits of the law. I think it's always good to learn from each other, but I'm afraid if I answer your question in full yes, I'll order apples to be compared to pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u110	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u111	That is, of course, entirely correct: we should not compare apples with pears, so we need to build in disclaimers. We can say in that final study: listen, Amsterdam has done something different than Utrecht and you name it, all the other municipalities. Amsterdam has also deployed the UvA for its own experiment. So if that's what we're going to say right now, isn't it okay if we put that together to learn from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u112	I have said that I think it would be wise to learn from every experiment in the world. I also think that the answer is not found purely in Amsterdam. It may as well be found in Den Helder or Helmond and another answer is also possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u113	Thank you. Then the first term of office will be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u114	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking Members of Parliament for their contribution, because I think this debate really matters. I also note the substantive commitment. I really appreciate that. I also went back in mind to the time when I myself worked at the social service in Rotterdam and ended up there in the situation that made me actively want to be political. That is why I am now so pleased that I am allowed to be the Secretary of State on these issues. That was the moment I got in touch with a gentleman, a client of our team in Rotterdam Feijenoord, a man of 61 years. I spoke to him because he sent a lot of letters to the congregation. He was actually very angry. I talked to him to ask why he sent all those letters. Then he told me he'd been told he didn't have to. He was told: "'You are 61 years old. You have health problems. You're not gonna get back to work. You don't have to. You're phase four." That's what it was called back then. Then I thought to myself, "We wrote this gentleman off." We had said with the best of intentions: 'You don't have to do it anymore'. But in fact, we said to him, "You don't matter anymore. We don't see you anymore." I think that is the essence of today's debate. I also heard these feelings in all the contributions of the Members of Parliament. I would like to thank you for that, because I believe that this debate is about our ambition for people in assistance. As far as I am concerned, this debate is also about support, about solidarity. It's about people we want to help, people who matter, but it's also about people who jointly raise and maintain our social security. Because their sense of justice is also very important. Above all, this debate concerns nearly 450,000 people in the welfare sector. Those are the recent figures. It's about how we deal with them, how we see them, whether we see them and what we expect from each other. Because as far as I'm concerned, it's not social to leave someone with a benefit at home for ten years and not ask people for anything. I think that all the means must be used to get people back on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u116	Was that a brief introduction? I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u117	The Secretary of State sketches the story of a 61-year-old gentleman who is stage 4 and therefore does not matter anymore in the words of the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Animal Party that that is precisely the problem, that the problem is that these words are used? If a person has a job, he does matter and if he doesn't have a job, he doesn't matter; isn't that a very wrong way to look at people? My question to the Secretary of State is whether the problem is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u118	I outlined a personal moment, a memory that was very explicit to me. I saw that it made someone who was helped by the regulation to the best of intentions feel written off. In the personal situation of this gentleman, also in view of his health situation and his chances at work, he was told: "You have such a distance from the labour market that you are phase 4." In 2001, 2002, we were still working with phases. It was actually said to him, "You don't matter." That's how he felt. That's how he experienced it. What I like about how we work today with the assistance is the fact that municipalities have the opportunity to look at people in their entirety, to look at the question that lies behind it and to say to people: can we work together to solve your problem? I welcome your question, which gives me the opportunity to say that a lot has been improved since then. But it was a personal note to indicate what drives me, also personally, to work on this subject very fundamentally and passionately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u119	Thanks for the answer. I'm good with that. Does the Secretary of State therefore agree with us that you should assess these experiments on a broader scale than just "has the person received work?" And you're gonna have to take a broader look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u120	I don't know if the stenographer has been able to capture your intonation. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u121	The main aim of the assistance is to get back to work, because it gives people the opportunity to participate, but also to keep together the social security system we have in the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, that is an important thought in this debate: the bearer of our social security, mutual solidarity and, therefore, the expectation that people will get back to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u122	The Secretary of State mentioned a whole list of what the debate would be about, but I looked at it: the debate is about an experiment with more flexible welfare rules in Amsterdam. The envy fine of €200 from the VVD, the right-wing dogma of the VVD. That's what the debate is about. So what you've all named, that's not why we're here. I would have liked to have a debate with you on this, but the reason is simply to lose your own group in Amsterdam and do a little populist-right. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u123	I had understood the title of the debate differently, but I did come to today's specific subject. This is indeed about the possibility of getting people to work, and I would like to talk to the Chamber about this today in order to experiment with the way in which people are being helped and the role of the counterpart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u124	So I found the introduction very strange, your own experience. I understand that you, as a new Secretary of State, would like to explain how you feel about this, but I think you can advise your own group to discuss the welfare rules with each other in a different way. These kinds of cases are embarrassing, even for you, to discuss with the VVD in Amsterdam and the VVD here, if I hear that you still want to help someone from 61 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mr President, I would like to come to today's specific subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u126	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr. Chairman. Municipalities may indeed experiment, provided they comply with the rules of the game. One of those rules is that they have the consideration as an instrument in their toolbox. I will briefly distinguish four types of municipalities, also in the interest of the debate, in order to clarify a number of issues. These are, first and foremost, the municipalities that do not participate in experiments but are engaged in all kinds of different ways to help and get as many people into work as possible. Secondly, and I think it is important to mention this category, there are the municipalities that participate in the national experiments and comply with all the rules. I would like to congratulate them from this place, because they also make it possible to examine new methods of comparison. They sometimes apply milder regimes but also heavier regimes and are therefore comparable. Some of you have said: can other ways and practices be involved? That's what makes it difficult. However, it is still possible to submit experiments, because there is the possibility for up to 25 municipalities. Thirdly, there are municipalities that do not experiment but that is what they call it. That's what my letter of December 1st was about. You may use certain practices within the framework of the Participation Act and you may also involve scientists. That is all very well, but these are not experiments as referred to in the general measure of governance under the Participation Act, because that is precisely what we are looking for in comparison with each other for new practices. And then there are municipalities that claim to experiment but may not apply the frameworks of the law, for example because they apply a category exemption. I have indeed received signals about this. A number of Members of Parliament have also asked for this. I will ask these municipalities whether they are experimenting, whether they are investigating new practices and, if so, how they do so, because everyone has to comply with the law. People in the assistance must comply with the law, but also municipalities that implement the assistance must comply with the law. Mr. Chairman. A number of specific questions have been asked about the experiments, among others by Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP. He asked if the additional income scheme could be extended to one year. I would say that is not the issue. First of all, because of reciprocity, as I mentioned in my introduction, which is also an important component of our social security system. But also to indicate that a welfare allowance is a temporary safety net scheme and therefore it is not desirable for people to earn a long-term supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u128	I would like to go back to the block before that, because the Secretary of State went on very quickly. Can I see from her words that she is actually talking to these municipalities to hear what they are doing, and that, if what they are doing does not fit within the framework of the law, she also refers to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u129	What I'm going to do first is ask for information, because we're talking about rules that are decentralised. There is therefore a very high level of responsibility and competence among municipalities. However, we still have national legal frameworks. So I'm gonna start by getting information. If that information gives rise to the idea that the framework of the law is being exceeded, then I will actually discuss it with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u130	The Secretary of State says she's received signals about a number of municipalities. Can she also tell which municipalities they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u131	I could, but I don't know if I'm complete, because I'm acting on the basis of signals. I also find it difficult to involve local authorities in this debate in advance, because there may also be evidence that signals are not right. I can, if I've requested information, let the Chamber know. But to appoint all kinds of congregations in advance with a certain degree of arbitrariness here in the Chamber, I am going a little too far at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u132	The question is whether not all municipalities will receive a new letter, but that a number of specific municipalities will receive a letter from or a conversation with the Secretary of State on the basis of signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u133	It happens with some regularity that in a newspaper there is an article by an enthusiastic alderman who says: I am going to experiment, but I do so outside the framework of the Participation Act or I do some things on paper but not in practice. We do not receive such signals formally, but they have been given with some certainty. Let us then agree here that on the basis of these signals I will ask for information and, if there is any reason to do so, I will start the conversation and then inform the Chamber accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u134	I'd like to continue with that conversation. Those aldermen say I do something on paper, but not in practice. This is, of course, also the result of the wording of the law when it comes to compensation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to actually open that conversation? So to also look at the possibility of changing the law so that municipalities can really decide whether they are asking for that consideration or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u135	In my view, the legislator has been very clear about the fact that the consideration is a valuable part of the Participation Act. I also hear from municipalities that there are very positive experiences with this, for example recently in Rotterdam, where about 75% of people say: I feel seen again. I also mentioned in my introduction how valuable it can be for people to actually be seen. I would like to turn the question around: why not use such a successful instrument? Let's start that conversation from that starting position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u136	But wouldn't it be very good, because we have this decentralised, that we rely on the aldermen who are allowed to do this differently? The alderman in Rotterdam.... we can say a lot about Rotterdam's approach... says: I want to use it. There are also aldermen who say: I want to have it in the regulation for those three or four cases where I want to apply it. There are. And there are aldermen who say: I don't want that instrument at all. Why shouldn't we let those three flavors exist side by side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u137	There are actually two pillars under this debate, which also play a role in this issue. First of all, the aim of the Participation Act is to help as many people as possible to work. The law provides a number of instruments for this and municipalities have a great freedom to do so. The other pillar is that there is also reciprocity which contributes to the acceptance of social security. Among other things, the compensation is based on it, so that people who are working can see that someone who has a benefit is doing what we all say is that it is a good thing that we have it in our country to do our best to give something in return. That's another background to that principle. I'm very attached to that, too. In the coalition agreement, there is no reason why I should discuss this with municipalities. As far as I'm concerned, I'll talk to you about how you can do this as well as possible. In the meantime, there are great best practices. I also consider this a valuable task. I imagine that once new lectures have been formed, I will discuss this with congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u138	In my contribution during the first period, I asked which municipalities are currently not complying with the legal rules. The Secretary of State says she's going to take stock of that and inform the Chamber about it. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to include which municipalities do not meet the language requirement, which do not maintain the consideration and what is the reason for that. I am therefore asking for a letter in which it becomes more clear how the municipalities are currently, so already, dealing with the implementation of the assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u139	This can go very wide, if I take it that way. In the light of this discussion, I have concentrated mainly on the experiments. I have also indicated that we are receiving signals that some municipalities say they are doing experiments with which they may be dealing with the frameworks of the Participation Act. I would like to talk to you about that, and I would like to inform the House of that. In addition, there are municipalities that state: I do not want to include the consideration in my regulation. That is indeed also the subject of discussion. On these two points, I would like to continue with the discussion of the Chamber. On matters such as language requirements, for example, I recently indicated to the budget that I will soon receive statistical information. The coalition agreement states that I do not enter into the conversation with municipalities without obligation. These are a number of things that I would not like to throw at one heap, also in the light of the decentralised tasks that municipalities have. You shouldn't confuse all these frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u140	They do have one thing in common, namely enforcement, in the interests of the assistance itself. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to make a commitment to inform the Chamber. Let me go a little bit wider: let us agree that the Secretary of State will ensure that before the end of this year she has identified for the whole country how municipalities deal with important issues such as language requirements and the consideration to ensure that the assistance remains sustainable. Then you can also see why municipalities are different or not different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u141	I want to get on with the assistance, especially to get all those people who are side by side to work or at least to activate. I find it a difficult request. I will come back to it in the second term whether I can promise this or whether I will do so in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u142	Municipalities do all kinds of things to get people to work. I think we all agree that this is a good thing. What means, what instruments are being used for this, are still subject to much debate: which are successful and which are not? One municipality does use a consideration, the other doesn't. They can both be successful. Would it not be a good thing for the State Secretary to say: yes, it is possible that a municipality can pursue successful policies without consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u143	The consideration is not primarily intended to get people to work. It can lead to that, there are successful examples of that. The main purpose of the consideration is to do justice to the reciprocity I mentioned in my introduction, so that the people who pay the tax can see that someone who has a benefit is also doing their best to do something in return or to get out of it. We shouldn't confuse these things. The consideration has its own place in the Participation Act. I think that's a good place. Apart from all ideological disputes, in practice, the consideration is greatly appreciated by people who carry it out. I referred to an investigation: about 75% of people find it pleasurable that some are asked of them, because they feel seen. As far as I am concerned, it is a very promising instrument which I would also like to discuss with municipalities that do not yet use it, also because the legislator has said that municipalities should have it in their toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u144	There's something else in there. I also think that the consideration gives a number of perverse effects. Anyway, let's leave it at that. We have this law and now there are municipalities, Utrecht for example, that say: that's good, I'll write it down in my decree, but I'm not implementing it. Do you think that's admissible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u145	I believe that we have established a law here with each other. I know the SP was different in that, but that law has been passed in this house. It's in there. Then I assume that the aldermen will abide by the law. If I get the signal that someone says "on paper, but not in practice," I will, of course, ask myself as co-legislator. That seems relevant to the House of Representatives. Right now, the law says you have to have it in the regulation. It may be that at some point the legislator says that it is apparently not sufficient, but that is a discussion that needs to take place later. First of all, I would like to request information and, if necessary, discuss it. I would then like to return to the Chamber with the result of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u146	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u147	I have actually given a very large part of the answers after the interruptions. I'll just see if there were any additional questions. At least I can see people walking to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u148	So do I, but perhaps you can first see which questions have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u149	Yes, at least there is a question which is certainly relevant to this subject, but which is just outside the other subjects, namely the consideration and the experiments. That is Mr Van Dijk's question about wages and poverty. Yesterday I was allowed to receive the Poverty Monitor. That is indeed a complicated concept. Yesterday, the CBS showed, with facts, how people at risk of poverty are doing. It was rightly pointed out that some of the people working are also at risk of poverty. This gave rise to the question of whether wages and benefits should not be raised, but these studies also showed that people with small jobs in particular are at risk of poverty. As a result, my response was that the trend seems to be that more work does help to get out of poverty and that the best way out of poverty is still work. That is why this cabinet has proposed a number of measures to focus on this. I believe that we agree that the crisis is certainly not over for this group. I just want these people to feel better too, especially for them. Mr President, I think I have come to the end of the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u150	I do not think so, because now the same thing is happening as during the budget debate. I have asked four questions and I would like to have an answer to all four questions. I'll get the Secretary of State on the road a little bit. One: how will the Secretary of State protect the welfare state? Two: what are the exact costs that go to non-Western immigrants in welfare each year? We have mentioned an amount of about EUR 3 billion. Is that right? I also made four proposals. I would like to know whether the Secretary of State accepts these proposals, as I asked for them in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u151	I apologise to Mr De Jong; indeed I had not answered his questions. I certainly think it is very important to protect a very nice provision, as we do with the assistance, for the future. That is why there is a great deal to allow people to use them as temporarily as possible and to encourage them to go to work. You will find a lot of measures on this in the coalition agreement. I can also tell you that, as we have just said in various debates on the matter, the consideration for this is an important measure. You are indeed saying that a large proportion of the people in the assistance have a non-Western background. Mathematically, your mathematics should be correct. I therefore believe that it is very important that we ensure that this group of people gets to work as quickly as possible. I'm going into some of the cases you mentioned, like stopping experimenting. I think it is important to continue experimenting, because society and legislation do not stand still, but then these experiments must be balanced. The experiments carried out on the basis of national laws and regulations are in balance, because they have not only a milder regime but also a heavier regime, because they really need to be able to compare well. Furthermore, as regards enforcement and withdrawal of the right to assistance, you asked for a number of things that I certainly cannot undertake. I can also tell you that a very large part of the control of the measures is reserved for municipal councils, because we have decentralised many of these laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u152	So every year, EUR 3 billion goes to non-Western immigrants in the assistance. Does the Secretary of State find that acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u153	I think it is very important that people who are on welfare go to work. I can now divide all kinds of groups, but I want people to just get to work after a temporary facility, which I'm proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u154	The last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u155	Of course, this is not the answer we need. The Secretary of State also says: 'Dear PVV, you are indeed right and EUR 3 billion a year goes to non-Western immigrants in the assistance.' Well, then all the bells have to ring, don't they? Then it can't be that we say: I want them to work as soon as possible? Surely you must ensure that the welfare state and the welfare state remain sustainable for the future? That's not the case, is it? Whatever you think of the composition of the assistance, it is not healthy for there to be a group so over-represented in the assistance. So I ask the Secretary of State what she is going to do to make sure that it is stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u156	I'm gonna give all the people on welfare a job. I also welcome all the people who pay the tax to finance the assistance that is being used in a proper and decent way. That's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u157	I would like to continue with what Mr Van Dijk said. The line of the previous Secretary of State was: you must have it in your decree, but whether you execute it, you decide all by yourself. I thought that was a strange line and quite a paper reality, but that was the line of the previous Secretary of State. My question to this Secretary of State is: is that her line or is she in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u158	I have read the Council of State's information very well. It says: you have to apply it, unless there are individual circumstances that allow you to grant exemption. That's how I interpret it. I think that is a very nice and clear information from the Council of State. The Council of State states in advance that you must therefore have it in your regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u159	So the Secretary of State believes that municipalities that put him in the regulation but do not apply it, are acting in violation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u160	Colleges have the power to grant an exemption for the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u161	I got the impression that the Secretary of State was done answering and I have two outstanding questions. The first question I asked is that the Participation Act is custom-made. In my view, therefore, it is not possible for Amsterdam, in the trial it is doing, to grant the premium to everyone in advance. In my opinion, there is a need for individual checks to be carried out on whether an effort has actually been made. The second question I asked was about the results of the test, and I do not want to call it 'Amsterdam experiment'. These must not be mixed with the results of the national experiment of the other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u162	There can be no category exemptions. That is the answer to the first question. I'll check it for the second term, in case I have to adjust it. The second question concerned the comparison of the investigations. No, the studies that take place under the Experiment Law can be compared. They are also scientifically supervised. I know there's been discussion from scientists, but I think there's always discussion between scientists. That's fine, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u163	We have talked a lot today about the consideration and it is also good that the Secretary of State will discuss this with municipalities. However, this active conversation and a more active implementation by municipalities can, of course, entail higher costs. I therefore asked in the first term what the Secretary of State is doing to that group of people for whom investment may no longer pay so much from a municipal point of view. Has the Secretary of State considered the financial aspects of the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u164	The question was indeed whether the budgets were too low. Mrs. Voortman asked about that, too. I do not think that the budgets are too low, but this is without prejudice to the fact that the cabinet pays extra attention to activation and support and to sheltered work. For example, we are going to work on this with the pay dispensation. In addition, we can hang out with municipalities again. These resources can also be used for people who find it difficult to get to work. So we are going to talk about this on several occasions, but I also think it is important for municipalities to be able to make full use of the tasks they now have to activate people and the budgets associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u165	But now there will also be an extension of the Municipal Fund. I would understand very well if the municipalities were to say: the Empire is asking us to do more in return, so it is not unreasonable to reserve more finances for that. Does the Secretary of State agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u166	There are now a number of talks with municipalities, under the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior. I can't make that clear at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u167	Back to the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u168	Oh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u169	This debate was requested because Amsterdam was planning something that a number of parties were very angry about. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the cold is now out of the blue, that Amsterdam can now do what it intends and that this debate was not very useful in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u170	I thought it was an extremely useful debate, if only because we all feel very involved in this issue. I would like to say a few words about Amsterdam. The way they have proposed to apply applies within the framework of the Participation Act. I always think it's a good idea to establish that. However, it has also emerged from this that the municipality of Amsterdam has not yet included the consideration in its regulation. In the coalition agreement, however, I was given the task of getting to work on it. I do so wholeheartedly because I think that the compensation is a very nice instrument. I also indicated in my reply to Mrs Voortman that I intend to actually start the conversation once the new lectures have been installed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u171	I find that odd, but that's your choice. So you're actually saying that municipalities can just go their own way now. You're gonna wait for the election, see what results are coming up, and then you're gonna take steps. But for the time being, your answers to questions from my colleague and myself show that you are actually saying, "What the municipalities can do now. What Amsterdam does is possible. What Utrecht does, can be done." You have not yet said that you are against the way in which Utrecht and Amsterdam deal with the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u172	The law says that municipalities had to include the consideration in their regulation. Utrecht has done so, but Amsterdam has not. Amsterdam does not act in accordance with the law. I will talk to Amsterdam about this, in accordance with the mandate I have received from the Chamber. I have indicated that this consists of the next steps. I'm asking for information, that's what we're talking about, and I'm assuming aldermen will abide by the law. I'm working on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u173	And if Amsterdam solves it in the same way as Utrecht, then are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u174	I have seen that there has been a signal from Utrecht that it would have been arranged on paper but not in practice. I think I am also obliged to inform your Chamber of what it means at least before we can give permission for the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u175	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I welcome the very clear answers from this Secretary of State. I am very happy to hear that when the Secretary of State receives signals, he is going to look at exactly what is happening in municipalities and whether it fits into laws and regulations. And if I receive signals myself, I will not fail to go through with it. I am particularly pleased to hear that the Secretary of State then picks up the phone or takes the service car to the municipalities to talk about it. We think that the compensation is a good instrument. I agree with the Secretary of State. We believe that the reciprocity contained in it is extremely important to uphold the support for our beautiful social security system, including for all those people and children who are still coming after us. Unfortunately, it can always happen that you have to use it unexpectedly. Actually, I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u177	Thank you. Mr Öztürk has another question for you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u178	A debate, media actions, no motion, no serious question, no commitment... You say that you are happy when the Secretary of State takes the car to the municipalities to talk about it and more or less do the work she gets paid for. The VVD is happy with that in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u179	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u180	So all this discussion has been for nothing. You didn't bring anything in. This is just an embarrassing show. In the end, you'll be pleased with the Secretary of State who does her normal work. Is that the target?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u181	A number of people measure one's effectiveness by the number of motions filed. I have heard a number of tough promises from this Secretary of State. I would like to give her the opportunity to implement that part of the coalition agreement as well. I am very curious about the results. You can be sure that I will, of course, continue to hold on to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u182	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u183	What commitments? What she says is her job: just talk to churches and if a law is broken, ask the aldermen to enforce the law. Purely her work, nothing more and nothing less. You have taken the Chamber and society a great deal of time; an embarrassing display.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u184	Those are your words, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u185	Ah, those are my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u186	No, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u187	That which Mrs Nijkerken now claims to have brought in, was stated in the letter of 1 December: I am going to talk to the municipalities. You knew that already, didn't you? What have you achieved with this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u188	I think we have had a very good debate, to hear about the reciprocity of the consideration and to emphasise once again what you are so opposed to, because you do not think any of this is necessary. You only assume the people who are on the benefit, because that's all very horrible. I agree. We must do everything we can to get these people to work as quickly as possible. But I also reason from the group of people who do work very hard every day to make ends meet and who think it is not so fair that there are people who are not being addressed to do anything in return for society, who just hold their hand alone. And there are. I also think that the Secretary of State has said very well that reciprocity is so very important and that it is not a bogeyman's instrument, but that it is a means of helping people again. Once again, because we have had this debate before, I do not understand why you are so opposed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u189	The VVD had a very big mouth in the newspaper about "Amsterdam Free State." It was all unacceptable what happened there and the VVD was going to take them for a while. We didn't see any of it today. I think it's a big damper. It would be a pleasure for you to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u190	You think it's a damper, not me. We have concluded that Amsterdam does not comply with the law. I think the Secretary of State is going to talk about this, so as to make them aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u191	Thank you. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, Mr Öztürk has another interruption. As long as it's not a repeat of moves again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u192	In my own contribution I also made a plea towards the VVD, because the VVD in Amsterdam agrees with this. There is also a council member who has now become a Member of Parliament, so a colleague of Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, who sits next to her. He agreed to it at the time. My question is: what about the group? Is this your own idea or were you sent out? Do you have to do a dirty job on behalf of the VVD summit? What's that like inside the VVD? Does Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius agree with you? As a councilman, did she and now she didn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u193	Well, my colleague is not here right now, but I am speaking on behalf of the VVD on this subject. This is therefore also the position of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u194	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u195	So Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, as a council member, agreed with the VVD alderman to do that and here she suddenly has to swallow and join the rest of the VVD bobos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u196	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u197	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Voortman, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I hear Mrs Nijkerken talking like that, I think we have gotten a long way from Mrs Klompé's vision of the welfare law. At the moment when you put people who are entitled to benefits down as people who hold their hands, I think that is the case, and I find that very unfortunate. Mr. Chairman. Let's start with two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities deal differently with the application of the compensation;]] [[believes that it is undesirable to place municipalities with regulations that are actually empty;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State is discussing the consideration with municipalities;]] [[calls on the government to also discuss in the discussion with municipalities whether it should be possible for municipalities to take the consideration out of the regulation if they do not want to actively implement it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the study carried out by the municipality of Amsterdam fits within the framework of the Participation Act;]] [[Considers that a diversity of experiments on the Participation Act leads to richer knowledge of what works and what does not;]] [[Whereas the study carried out by the municipality of Amsterdam can also provide valuable insights into how the Participation Act can be improved;]] [[invites the government to include the results of the study in the municipality of Amsterdam in the evaluation of the Participation Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-79]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman, Mr Van Raan and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u199	Thank you, Mr President. At the end of the day, we had a discussion today on whether or not this debate made sense. Yeah, I can't use that as a Member of Parliament. So I'm just gonna file a motion. It is a rather long motion, so I need about my minute speaking time for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is insufficient information on the size of the "poor" group in the assistance and the characteristics of this group;]] [[Whereas there is no clear understanding of the obstacles for municipalities to accompany these people to work or daily spending;]] [[Whereas an individual municipality may not take into account all social benefits, such as care costs, in the consideration of guidance;]] [[noting that there is a tight labour market;]] [[noting that the hard-to-intermediate group in the Participation Act is growing with, for example, old Wajong influx;]] [[invites the cabinet to present this group and to conduct research into the social costs and benefits, including outside the benefit burden, for the guidance of this group according to work or daily expenditure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u200	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In that I would like to thank you very much for the good work done today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u201	Thank you. I think that's very sweet. Thank you. You won't get any more interruptions! Thank you. I now give the floor to Jasper van Dijk. He's already standing by.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u202	Mr. Chairman. Big words in the media, but then there is nothing left in the debate. In that sense, we have learned something in this debate, namely: think before you apply for a debate. I also have to say that before Christmas we had a conversation with the alderman from Amsterdam because he came here at our invitation. And who were there? All parties, except those who were in the front of the media to criticise this. Apparently, they didn't need it. I actually thought it was a cowardice that you weren't there, because the alderman actually explained exactly what the Secretary of State also explained. Mr President, I have one more question. According to my information, not only Utrecht, but Amsterdam also has the counterpart in the regulation. And then what the Secretary of State just said wouldn't be entirely correct. I'd like to hear a confirmation on that point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas persons receiving welfare benefits under the current release scheme may retain part of the additional earnings during the first six months;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the release regime to one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u203	Mr. Chairman. We have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that at present the outcome of each study aimed at evaluating experiments within the Participation Act concerns increasing participation in the labour market;]] [[Whereas, from a scientific point of view, scientists have expressed their concerns by letter to the Court about assessing the results of the experiment solely on the flow to regular work and that it is also possible that important effects on, for example, social participation, health and well-being will disappear;]] [[Whereas the concept of "wide prosperity" helps to make trade-offs integral in order to discuss trade-offs between various aspects of prosperity;]] [[Whereas taking into account the different forms of prosperity, policy priorities can be better monitored and applied;]] [[In accordance with the motion tabled by Mr Voortman c.s. (34298, No. 5) give room to municipalities to test participation policies, including on the experiments, against broad welfare indicators in order to make an integral assessment of impacts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Voortman and Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u204	Mr. Chairman. The end result. The VVD is asking for a high-level debate. The right-wing media is blowing it up. People with benefits are put back into a negative angle. All kinds of negativity in the media. A debate will then be held. The Secretary of State talks about her first job in Feijenoord and her own experiences. Next comes the VVD which the Secretary of State thanks for what she had already written in the letter and we proceed to the order of the day. The result: hours, days of debate, media expressions. Who's the loser? The people on welfare. They're being shown negative again, like they're taking advantage of our social system. That's what the VVD would watch over. I don't think the VVD should be dealing with that $200 experiment room. The VVD has to deal with those diggers at the top of the companies. We had a debate on this yesterday. Millions are being grabbed there. The VVD doesn't care about that. The VVD defends the interests of these large companies and instead tries to take away the €200. I think it's a good thing we ended up like this. Unfortunately, nothing was brought in by the VVD. Let me put that as a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u205	Thank you. I'll see if the Secretary of State can answer directly. Five minutes? Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u206	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Five motions have been tabled and two more questions put. The Voortman/Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. Seventy-nine, I have to advise against it. I think that in return is an important and beautiful instrument. That's my starting point to talk to the congregations about it. In the motion in part No. 80 the government is invited to include the results of the study in Amsterdam. We have a number of experiments that are similar to each other. That is also being tested. I can't add any other experiments to that. That is why I must, unfortunately, discourage this motion. Then I come to the Raemakers motion in part No. 81. The request in this motion is in line with what I indicated in the letter of 8 December. In the context of the state of play of the Participation Act, I have announced an investigation into people who have been on long-term assistance. I would like to include this request. I'll leave the motion to the Court's judgment. The Jasper van Dijk/Voortman motion in part No. 82 increases poverty trap. At the moment, there is a good balance between the promotion of people and the temporality of the release. Therefore, I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 83. Municipalities are free to apply other criteria, but we are mainly looking at opportunities to flow to work. That is why I also advise against this motion. Then I've got two more questions. The PVV has asked me to take a tour of municipalities to collect signals about, among other things, the language requirement. However, the supervision of individual municipalities is no longer with SZW. It's up to the city council to do that. So I can work on the basis of signals, but I'm not going to go all the way around the country to pick up those signals. That's the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u208	A brief question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u209	But the Secretary of State is in a position to request information. The Secretary of State can do that. So my question is to get to work on this and inform those municipalities about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u210	I have a number of specific issues which are also covered in the government agreement....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So I'm talking to municipalities about this, but getting specific information per municipality has not been the responsibility of SZW since the introduction of the Participation Act. It's really reserved for the city council to see to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u211	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u212	The final question is from the SP. I was equally pleased when I heard Mr Jasper van Dijk say that the consideration is indeed in the Amsterdam regulation, but I happened to have it with me and I could see that the consideration is in it, but without the word "obligatory" in it, which is actually the whole port of the discussion we have had here, including the information provided by the Council of State. It says that, on the basis of the law, the municipality must have the mandatory consideration in the regulation; the college must be able to impose it in a mandatory manner, so that it is not entirely dependent on the voluntary nature of the assistance client. Unfortunately, I was not quite happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u213	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u214	But I think the Council of State has said: it is up to the municipalities to decide how to deal with this. In this sense, what Amsterdam is doing now is not prohibited. Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u215	No, I don't share that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u216	Thank you. No, Mr. Jasper van Dijk, the discussion is over. I'm sorry. This really was the second term. We have come to the end of this debate. It's been a long time anyway, despite the fact that it was said that... well, I'm not gonna say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u217	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
