ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law by Mr Veldman amending the Municipal Law and the Environmental Management Act introducing the levying of sewage and waste charges for the user, Section 34542. First of all, I would like to welcome Mr Veldman. He is, of course, supported in section K in the defense of the bill. Let me mention those who are sitting there. These are Mrs Désirée de Groot, Mr Pieter Jan van Nispen and Mr Milan Plug. They will assist the initiator in this always special process and they have undoubtedly already done a lot of work. Welcome, and thank you for that. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. That is always a special role for the Minister. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date, of course in consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u2	There is something special about this evening, because I am the first speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. He's having his maiden speech tonight. So we should not interrupt him, but we should enjoy an always free introduction, in which he will send a message to the Chamber. That's very special. I would now like to give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is indeed my maiden speech; a special moment. I would like to begin by congratulating the author and his supporters on the initiative proposal. It is a piece of parliamentary handicraft that I admire and which I hope I will be able to experience myself during my time as a Member of Parliament. As a former alderman of Finance of my hometown Helmond, the subject of the law appeals to me. The waste tax and the sewer tax together with the real estate tax, i.e. local housing costs. Waste and sewer charges: it may not sound sexy, but they can be very important tools in the transition to a circular economy... waste is raw material.............................................................................................................................................................................. In order to do so, we need not only to redesign the public space, but also to make our sewer system future-proof. As a great advocate for sustainability and for a sustainable society and as a new spokesperson for GroenLinks, I would like to go along with the proposal. The most important thing the author of this bill wants to regulate is that municipalities are obliged to levy the waste levy, just like the waste tax, exclusively from the user, where municipalities still have the opportunity to deal with this. All this under the 'polluter pays' adage. It goes without saying that we in the Green Left fully support the 'polluter pays' principle. And frankly, I am also quite surprised that the author, of the VVD, is working so hard on this. This raises the question: why only specifically on this part? After all, there are much more and much larger areas to think of where the 'polluter pays' adage would be very good and should be leading. I am thinking, for example, of air traffic or the large polluting industry. Can the petitioner indicate whether we can expect initiative laws from the VVD in these areas as well? We are looking forward to it with great interest. Or, more generally, does the author share the opinion of GroenLinks that we should also apply the polluter pays principle in other areas? Can he therefore explain why he is doing it specifically on his own in this area? Because 'polluter pays' is a fantastic starting point, but the question is how much greening effect we are going to achieve in this particular proposal. I do not expect tenants to go to the toilet much less often if they have to pay for the sewer charge themselves in future. This seems to me to be one of the few parts on which steering on price has very little effect. I would like to hear what the author thinks about this. I'm really curious about that. In addition, the impact of tenants on climate change, which is likely to increase sewer charges, is also very limited. Let us now turn to our main criticism. In this proposal there is a shift of charges from the owner of a real estate to the tenant. In practice, this would mean that tenants and entrepreneurs who rent a building could deteriorate significantly and property owners would benefit from this shift of charges. The strongest shoulders will therefore bear less heavy loads. That seems to GroenLinks to be a very undesirable situation, especially in times when tenants often have a hard time already, the Nibud recently wrote a report there about real estate owners and make huge profits. I would like to receive an extensive response from the author on this point. I would like to ask him if he can give concrete figures to support the consequences of the proposal for people living in a social housing unit or in a middle-rental housing unit. Another point that weighs heavily for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is local autonomy. Can the petitioner explain why municipalities should give up autonomy in his case? The Council of State is critical of this, and we think it is right. The petitioner did not wait for the cabinet to come forward with a proposal. In this respect, GroenLinks is very pleased that this issue is now on the agenda. The debate on the local tax area has been going on for a long time, but it is actually quite quiet from the cabinet on this point. I would therefore also like to ask the Minister what her view is on the local tax area and whether she intends to come to the Chamber with proposals. The timing of this loose proposal, so without looking at the entire local tax area, is a matter of concern for our group. Because by changing a small part, we don't have the ability to compensate for possible adverse effects. Can the applicant explain to us why we would now adapt a small part of the local tax area, whereas it seems more logical to involve us in the wider discussion on the local tax area? Mr. Chairman. That was my first-term contribution. I look forward to the reply of the author and to the Minister's response to the questions I have put.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u4	Thank you. Then I'll be the first to congratulate you on your maiden speech. I can also say that we look forward to hearing you speak more often. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u5	I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Van Raak, for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should like to congratulate Mr Smeulders. Helmond's blood in the Chamber, that's good! I know he worked well with Erik de Vries of the SP as alderman in Helmond. Erik de Vries was once my associate here in the Lower House. I am sure that we too will work well together in the future. I would like to congratulate Mr Veldman, because this is the way to do it: you are tabling a motion, you are making a proposal; the government is refusing to implement it, then you come up with an initiative law. It seems a bit like a pretty practical law, waste tax and sewer tax, but actually this is very ideological. I think it's a real VVD proposal. But that makes it difficult for me, Mr. Chairman. Mr Veldman wants to tell the user about the waste tax and the waste tax. Now the municipality pays that or it is passed on in the ozb. That's what the VVD thinks is unfair, because why would you pay for it if you own the property? So he wants to oblige municipalities, and I am curious to know what the Minister thinks about this in order to make the waste tax fully cost-effective. It has already been said that this means less freedom of policy for municipalities, the minima are hit hard and the homeowners are making a lot of progress. I told you, Chairman, a real VVD proposal. Congratulations again, but it's gonna be hard for me. It is also ideological, when it comes to collective provision. The VVD, Mr Veldman, seems to assume that collective provisions are provisions for persons, to which you must also contribute in proportion as a person. But when it comes to water and sewer charges, I thought we learned in our polderland that if the dike of one breaks through, the other gets wet feet. For that we have the polder model, for which we have collective social services. I quote the initiator of the previous written reply: "In all municipalities, tenants must be directly targeted for the sewer charge, so that they, as a user of a plot, are aware that they are using this collective provision." So: be aware of it. Is that supposed to make you feel a little guilty when you pull through the bathroom? Or shouldn't you be pulling through the toilet, and then what could be the consequences? I did like how the author responded to a question from the CDA group. He says: "The initiator finds with the members of the CDA group that no one has a direct influence on the amount of sky water that falls there. However," he says, "the user can indeed influence the discharge of sky water." "Heavenwater" is a beautiful word. But I also found his suggestion remarkable. He says: you can put down a rainton, put more green in the garden, or put in a pond. Even then I thought: yes, this is a real VVD proposal. I live in Amsterdam and I know miles around no one who has a garden where you can build a pond. So, yes, liberalism is on the rise here, but I do not know if logic prevails here. And then it's about public services. The complainant seems to assume that these public services are there for individuals, who he approaches as consumers. While from the SP I think correctly from the community of citizens. I asked before: how does it work, if you want users to pay for it? You also have commuters, and they go to the bathroom sometimes. Or you have tourists, and they sometimes run through the rain. Then how are you supposed to do all that and get on with it? I also think that a very important ideological point is local autonomy. We already have relatively little policy autonomy for municipalities in the Netherlands. So I think you should be very careful to impose obligations here, so that municipalities cannot deliver customised services. I also wondered how this rhymes with, for example, the decentralisations. I remember that Mr Veldman was very much in favour of this. Maybe he can explain that in his explanatory statement. I must point out, however, the criticism of the UNG, which points to the financial consequences. There's a big load shift, as the VNG says, between tenants and owners. The municipal autonomy is also called the VNG. The municipalities are obliged to levy the tax, where they now have freedom. They are obliged to recover at least 80% of the costs, while they are now free. Municipalities are obliged to recover these costs from just the landlords, while they still have a choice. I would therefore also like to have a reaction from the author to that criticism of the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Finally, the financial consequences. I don't say that as a SP'er alone. The Association of Dutch Municipalities also says that these financial consequences will be great for tenants, but also for small entrepreneurs. The VNG expects property owners in particular to make a big profit from this proposal. Again, it really is a typical VVD proposal. Many compliments for that, but it is not quite my proposal. I would like to have a little more insight into these financial consequences for the legal process, because if this law is passed by the Chamber, then it will have a huge impact on tenants and on smaller entrepreneurs. Then I think it is fair and necessary to know a little more about what these financial consequences are. Rentals have already increased by 30% in recent years. Then I would also like to know what we would do to the tenants in the Netherlands if we passed this law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u7	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u8	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by warmly congratulating Mr Smeulders, also from this place, and wishing him much joy and wisdom in fulfilling this beautiful popular representative office. Congratulations to Mr Veldman for his own-initiative proposal. I have a great deal of appreciation for that. Compliments also for the work that has been done. It is a kind of crowning of your Chamber of Commerce that you come up with an initiative bill that also matters. I'd like to elaborate on that. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a small public confession. There are moments of weakness that I am tempted to take up the VVD election programme. I admit I shouldn't, but it's happening. It's happening. Then it happens to you: the desire becomes too strong and you give in to temptation. This also happened in the run-up to the preparation of this bill. At page 93 I suddenly stepped up on a beautiful quote about Europe, with the final conclusion: "And how much do we actually have to say about how we live our lives between all these different levels of government?" A little further: "so that different governments don't get in the way of each other and especially us as residents." And then a very nice one: "Tasks that the Empire has handed over to municipalities we really let go. The Empire does not interfere with the financial choices made by the municipality." Then I thought, and here it comes! I expected a glowing speech with fine phrases about local autonomy, the local government's own financial system, its own responsibility and how all this should be promoted. But no. Then it continued with local taxes and the adaptation of waste and sewer taxes, and so on. A bit of a deception, Mr. Chairman. If I wanted to be sarcastic, but I'm not... that's not my problem at all... I'd say, you see, evil punishes itself... you shouldn't have caught that election program of the VVD. But that's a little lame, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. These points do lead to the next first question on Mr Veldman's most important handicrafts. Do municipalities have enough to say about how they live their own "life between the different levels of government"? Indeed, the SGP has the motion Veldman c.s. It was also submitted at the time. The direction of our esteemed colleague from VVD-huis had and certainly has our sympathy. "The polluter pays" is basically a good, clear starting point. At the same time, I do wonder what that means in concrete terms. Somewhere in the pieces I read that the "personal sewer bill" is called "the citizen has to think extra carefully if he wants to pour his fryer fat into the sewer." Maybe so, but is that personal component really there? Does he get a discount if he doesn't dump the frying fat in the sewers but returns it to, for example, the local mission committee? You will understand that the SGP is a warm supporter of turning it in to the local mission committee, if it can benefit from it. But it seems that at least we have that impression that the principle works especially if there are real costs that can be linked to a specific person. Does the initiator want to reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. The SGP is leading the way when it comes to increasing the local tax area. I tabled a motion with Mr Schouw five years ago (33750-VII, No. 34) on the strengthening of the local tax area in the event of a simultaneous reduction in national taxes. I would like to hear from Mr Veldman whether he shares this point of view. Would it not then be more logical to look at the future of the sewer levy and waste tax in this broader perspective of local taxation and increasing its scope? The initiative would only prescribe who the taxpayer is, as is the case with many other local charges. In the meantime, however, it is also an obligation to realise a certain proportion of the costs from these revenues. In the proposal, a municipality cannot choose not to levy. The draft law does not have any legal hooks or eyes in practical terms, because municipalities already comply with the 80% standard. Is it really desirable, then, to introduce an obligation on the part of the public authorities to cover the costs in any other way? Then I have another question about the owners versus the users. In practice, we see that many municipalities have made the choice to impose the sewer charge on the owners rather than on the users. As a SGP, we understand very well that this can lead to very poor relations. That's why we all the more appreciate the effort to do something about this. Local authorities may not have sufficient regard for a fair distribution of taxation across all citizens. But wouldn't it be obvious first of all to understand why these choices are now made by municipalities, so that we can understand the considerations behind them? There may be arguments that we are not thinking about right now. Has the sewer charge not already been partly included in the rental rates? Mr. Chairman. Mr Veldman has not provided for transitional rights. The question is whether this is right. What does this bill mean for landlords and tenants when municipalities suddenly make adjustments to the sewer tax on the basis of this proposal in December? Are landlords, who then have lower costs, obliged to reduce rents in proportion? Mr President, first of all, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u9	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u10	Thank you, Mr President. For my part, I would also like to congratulate Mr Smeulders. When you get into the Chamber like that, I guess I didn't. You don't think that sewer tax is the subject of your political career here. I was allowed to respond to Mr Bishop and my colleague Rog's own-initiative proposal on the diagnostic test. Anyway, you're gonna have to do it with what you're being served. This is a good start. In any case, as a colleague, I wish you every success here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Sewers and waste collection are general facilities. Therefore, the author of the proposed bill considers that the municipal tax or a levy for such a general provision should not be dependent on the ownership of the property connected to the building, but that it should be regulated through it as a user connected to that provision. As Mr Van Raak said, Mr Veldman has not only recorded this in a motion, but he has now also taken up the implementation of that motion himself. And that deserves appreciation from the Chamber, if only because it has brought himself a great deal of work. Anyway, we're here today. The CDA Group shares the initiator's point of view that anyone using a public facility, such as the sewer or waste collection and treatment, should in principle also pay for it. The problem, according to the initiator, is that 61% of the municipalities impose a tax on these general public services wholly or largely on owners of real estate. For example, the author refers to the figures of COELO, the institute looking at taxes and charges. But, I say to the initiator, it can also be said that the sewage system is being built for the benefit of the owner who also reaps the fruits of his property, whether he lives there himself, works there or rents it out? I would like to hear a response from the author to that principle. The applicant also looked at the figures. However, the CDA Group also asked the applicant in the written consultation on the basis of which considerations the municipalities concerned decided to finance the costs of this provision largely from the general funds. Why, according to the initiator, should these considerations not belong to the municipal autonomy? The CDA Group has another question to the author about the legislative proposal, and that question is certainly addressed to the Minister. If the current tax on the owner expires, how does the tenant, who in future receives an account from the municipality, see whether his or her rent is falling sufficiently, at least if he or she receives an attack from the municipality? And I agree with an earlier remark that it could also be included in the rent. Then you want to know that you don't get an extra bill, but there is also an advantage. I would like to hear a response from the author. I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion on how the consumer can be helped. The CDA Group further asks the initiator to back up why that 80% cost level is included. I think the petitioner has sufficiently substantiated that many municipalities are already above that percentage, but he deliberately chooses to record it in his proposal. I would like to hear a further clarification on this point. The Council of State is critical of the by definition burdening the user with the cost of sewers. After all, the sewer is also there for the discharge of sky water and for the management of groundwater. And the user has virtually no influence on that, says the Council of State. The applicant argues that the establishment of a garden allows users to influence this purpose of the sewer system. The CDA Group wonders whether the initiator of this proposal introduces a kind of "tile tax" which has been criticised. If you took your tiles out of your garden, you'd have to pay less taxes. I would like to hear a further justification for that part of the applicant's reply. Mr. Chairman. Climate change increases precipitation. This calls for measures, in particular investment in public space. These investments are part of the sewage levy. Does the applicant consider it reasonable to charge the full amount of these investments to tenants? In the report, the CDA Group asked about the financial consequences for different groups and taxpayers, such as owners of their own homes, tenants of homes and tenants of non-residents. The initiator states that a shift of charges is not the purpose of the present legislative proposal, but rather that existing taxes are levied more fairly. Then what burden shifts does the author consider fair when we talk about these groups? Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is keen to look forward to the reply of the petitioner and the Minister. These answers will be included in the final position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u11	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u12	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mr Smeulders on his maiden speech. It's always good to see more Brabant faces in the Chamber. I am sure that Mr Smeulder's portfolio in Helmond is in good hands with his successor Gaby van den Waardenburg. Mr. Chairman. This is the first time I have been allowed to speak in the debate on an initiative law. After just over a year in the Chamber, that's a first time for me. I like this, because the instrument of the initiative law is an important instrument of the Chamber. I am therefore pleased that Mr Veldman has taken this instrument out of the toolbox, started working on it and has done a lot of work for it. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the positive side of this initiative proposal. The VVD has taken the "polluter pays" principle as its guiding principle. That is positive news and I would like to see it more often in debates on the environment. Because often I hear "yes, difficult, who exactly is the polluter?" or "fun, 'the polluter pays' is a very liberal principle, but its implementation is very complicated." In short, I am positively surprised that the VVD embraces this principle. But I am a little less satisfied with the application of the principle. With this initiative proposal, the VVD intends to apply this principle by saying that municipalities must cover at least 80% of the costs of treating waste water, sky water and waste from the sewage levy and the waste levy. In addition, municipalities are obliged to impose them on the user of real estate, i.e. the tenant, while municipalities are already able to do so. The beauty of the 'polluter pays' principle is that you give people, governments or companies an incentive to pollute less. Can the initiator indicate how making the imposition of the sewage levy and the waste tax compulsory with that percentage gives the tenant an incentive to reduce pollution? The same applies to the coverage of those 80% of the costs of these charges. To what extent is that an incentive to pollute less? And why did the initiator choose this percentage? What's that based on? In short, I do not yet see the benefits of these measures, but the disadvantages are clear. First of all, this proposal will increase the burden on tenants. Now tenants pay this sewage charge through the rent. I don't think landlords will lower rents. But at the same time we are faced with an additional tax. I wonder how the initiator looks at this. It seems that the main beneficiaries of this measure are house milkers. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In addition, these measures affect the autonomy of municipalities to a large extent. The Council of State rightly states that the importance of the infringement must be weighed against the value of municipal autonomy. Municipalities already have sufficient instruments in their hands to apply the polluter-pays principle. In Amsterdam, for example, the exact amount of water someone uses is being looked at; that is really 'the polluter pays', because the polluter has an incentive to reduce its use. At the moment, I do not see how the changes proposed by the initiator justify the restriction of municipal autonomy. In short, I am pleased that the VVD embraces the 'polluter pays' principle. Unfortunately, I do not see any environmental gain thanks to this proposal at this stage, but I do see a tax increase for tenants and a reduction in the area for municipalities to apply the 'polluter pays' principle. So I'm not convinced yet, but I'm curious to hear the answers from the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u13	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van den Bosch of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to begin by warmly congratulating Mr Smeulders. Maybe it wasn't my story, but it was a nice story. I also remember standing here a year ago with my maiden speech last week, it's never too late to learn! It was again on a completely different subject; I believe about a convicted terrorist at Volkel Air Base. So that was something completely different from this beautiful subject. But a great deal of success and cooperation, let's just say. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating the initiator and his staff on their work on this proposal. As a VVD it has already been mentioned a bit by everyone we think that the person who uses facilities is responsible for that too. We therefore find it only logical that it should make no difference whether you have bought or rented a house. We all use the sewers and we are all responsible for the cost of using them. It is to be commended, as Mr Van Raak has said, that Mr Veldman, after the previous Minister indicated that he did not give priority to his motion on this subject, took up the gauntlet through our own right of initiative and put forward a legislative proposal for this. As a House of Representatives that is sometimes forgotten, after all, we are also co-legislators. My group still has a number of questions for the author in this first term. First of all, the VVD shares the view of the initiator that the user should pay. That's an honest system. This is not the case in some municipalities. It varies by municipality, where you live or work, whether you pay for your sewer use in a rental or a purchase house. That's a weird system, isn't it? Can the proposer provide insight into the effects of this change on property owners and tenants in all municipalities? What exactly does this mean to them? Mr. Chairman. Last week, as a Chamber, we received a very critical letter from the VNG. My group would like the author to address these criticisms, particularly in the area of municipal autonomy, also mentioned by several, and the financial consequences. Since it is the municipalities that deal with these charges, the VVD considers it important that their concerns are addressed. My group is also keen to see transitional rights. The author states that the law could be introduced immediately, but municipal budgets are partly based on the charging system. My group has signals that some municipalities will find it difficult to make this change with immediate effect. I would therefore like to ask the author whether he is prepared to discuss any transitional arrangements with these municipalities or with the VNG on behalf of all these municipalities. Mr President, I will conclude. I wish the petitioner and his staff every success in answering all the questions that have been asked today. I look forward to the answers in his first term. Then the VVD Group will give its final judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u15	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. As I indicated at the beginning, we are suspending the debate to make an appointment with the initiator to continue the debate, where he will have the opportunity to answer the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-42.u16	I shall suspend the sitting until 8.15 p.m. We have tried to put forward the next debate, but it has not been possible. So we stick to the old days: 8:15 p.m. The next debate will then take place.
