ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is Mrs Dijksma's farewell to the PvdA. I'll start with her suicide note. "Mrs President, dear Khadija, I would like to inform you that I will no longer be a member of your Chamber from 1 June. I was appointed alderman by the city council of Amsterdam last night. My decision to go to Amsterdam is not easy. As Vice-President of the PvdA Group, I have contributed with great conviction to our commitment over the past year. We have learned to move forward cheerfully and courageously, sometimes against the current and with fewer people than before, to make a relevant contribution. I'm proud of that and it gives me all the confidence in the future. In that light, an early farewell to Parliament and to the group so dear to me has been emotional and difficult. I'm usually someone who finishes what I start. Knowing that I also continue to support and represent my party from a new role as alderman in a city that is considered to be the cradle of social democracy next to the red North will help greatly. In all the long years I have worked in The Hague, I have always commuted between the Hofstad and my home port Twente. Of course, I've tried to seduce my family before to come to 070. Those attempts failed miserably. The beautiful coulisse landscape, the sea of space and the characteristic noaberscape" "That's really Twente's "made them with no ten horses to move. But when I tried it unexpectedly with the code 020 after many years of in vain impressions, the virtual moving safe jumped open with one stone. In the words of my oldest child: Amsterdam is just a cool city! And so after all these years of commuting we are finally going to live together permanently in Amsterdam; a priceless gift, unfortunately also literally."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u2	I hear a little gloating from the non-Amsterdammers. "In addition to our list leader Marjolein Moorman's request to be the second alderman, I consider as a huge opportunity and a great honor. An opportunity, because the challenges Amsterdam faces are great. And as a driver, you can help keep this fantastic metropolis alive, accessible and dynamic at the same time. It's this assignment that gives me an incredible amount of energy and makes my heart beat faster. Anyone who knows the history of my party will see that men like Floor Wibaut and Jan Schaefer have changed the city forever with their practical politics and tangible ideals. Their governance style and way of political business continues to appeal to the imagination. Amsterdam is also the city of Eberhard and the city of Louis. I saw young Alderman Asscher fighting bad schools up close. A battle he won in favour of all children in Amsterdam. So Marjolein and I are in big shoes. That feels like a huge responsibility, but above all as an honor. I should like to thank all of you, my group colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber for their good cooperation and collegiality. It was a great pleasure to stay in your midst. Our parliamentary democracy calls for a permanent commitment and protection of all of us. That's why I'm allowing myself a single little tip. Let us be proud of our parliamentary democracy, of Parliament, of the debate and of the freedom we enjoy in this beautiful country. A freedom which is celebrated, cherished every day and, unfortunately, seen the long-standing security of one of our colleagues must also be protected. If the only MP our President has seen come literally, I would like to stress that I enjoy the way you represent our house with a combination of humor, flair, appropriate rigour and, above all, dignity, which deserves respect from friend and enemy."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u3	I don't know if everyone thinks so, but okay. "Furthermore, I will not interfere with the way things are going in this house. Many thanks to all employees who support us daily. Without them, we're no good at all. Thank you, Farhat from the restaurant, for all your great cappuccinos and the encouraging words you always had for me. You are an example to many and you are a symbol of the service of all employees who own this Chamber. You're all well. Best regards, Sharon Dijksma."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u4	Dear Mrs. Dijksma, dear Sharon. 2007, 2011, 2012 and 2018: this is the fourth time you've said goodbye to us. But you were never far, and it was always for a while. A brief overview of your back and forth movements from your Chamber seat to box K. In 2007 you left the House of Representatives for the first time to become Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science in the Balkenende IV cabinet. In 2010 you returned as a Member of Parliament. At the end of 2011 you went on leave. In 2012 you even said goodbye to the Chamberwork for good. In that same year we saw you again on stage, but then as Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and later as Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. In 2017 you returned to our Chamber after the elections. Now, May 2018, you say goodbye again. The fact is that your membership of the House of Representatives is full of records and near-records. I'm just gonna walk by. 24 years ago, to be exact, on 17 May 1994, you were installed by then Second Chamber Chairman Deetman. You were 23 years old, the youngest MP ever. Mind you, none of today's MPs were in the Chamber in 1994. Neither do I. You could have written the record "youngest longest-sitting MP" in your name if you hadn't taken on those three different state secretariats in between. On the other hand, you did set another remarkable record in 2012: you were the youngest leaving nestor ever. Now you have to settle for the, yet honorable, fifth place. Sharon, you're not the youngest of the couple anymore, but you're one of the old-timers. I reviewed the speech of then Second Chamber chairman Gerdi Verbeet. She described you in 2012 as an ambition, passionate and combative MP. You felt like a fish in the water here. You certainly haven't lost those character traits and you still feel at home here. And once again, with your departure, the Chamber loses an experienced power. Like a clerk grabbed me when he heard you were leaving, "it's a blowout for the Chamber." That's what it feels like. You had the honour to address us on behalf of all outgoing MPs in 2012. "Police is craft," you said. And: "A good politician not only has an ideological view, but also has a great strategic insight into timing." At least that's how we met you. In your work you are flexible and loyal, but also someone who knows what she wants. You worked under a portrait of opera legend Maria Callas for years. Not because you're a star in singing, I've heard, but because you recognize yourself in those modest, almost fearful Italian deer who climbed up to an operadiva. Out of nowhere, a self-made woman. You once said in an interview that you had the most incredible support of your family, but that family had neither a position nor connections in politics. You did it all yourself. That started when you were 14 and as chairman of the student council at the secondary school in Groningen organized a demonstration against the mandatory, unflattering gymnastics outfit. When you were 18, you already became president of the Young Socialists. Red-painted hair, which no one can imagine, I think a tame rake on the shoulder, army boxes on the feet. You grew up here in this house. You have many motions and legislative proposals in your name. For the past year, you've been mostly committed to better care. You were one of the members of our Bureau and committed yourself to the proper functioning of the Chamber. Now you're gonna beat your wings out of The Hague. The city of Amsterdam attracts you. As much as I regret that, you're still committed to the public cause, and I admire that. You have served our country in full surrender as a ruler. We regularly followed you to the shins, and you enjoyed it. Raoul du Pré van de Volkskrant recently wondered whether it might be Amsterdam's humour to leave the Chamber early and abandon the voters a little. I can't really laugh about it like Amsterdam's. Because I'm gonna miss you, but especially because, as someone told me, it's a huge loss to the Chamber. Sharon, when I say goodbye to the Chamber, I think I just feel that this time it is final. It's not for a while, and you're farther away. Thanks for being here. Members of parliament and the House of Representatives will miss you. And now that you're really, really, saying goodbye for good, just remember: if you come back one more time, you'll probably set another record or a near-record. Then you'll have most of the rentees in your name and maybe you'll be the highest new entry ever. 'Cause those Room Days so far 5,000 about just count on it. But first, Amsterdam. Take care! Thank you.
