ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term on the part of the Chamber of the examination of the Law 33506, the Proposal of the Law of the Member Pia Dijkstra amending the law on organ donation in relation to the inclusion of an active donor registration system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for allowing me to take the floor. Mr Van Kesteren, I look forward to working together. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Organ Donation Act to include an Active Donor Registration System. Since the House of Representatives voted in favour of Mrs Dijkstra's own-initiative proposal by a very narrow majority, it is now before us for decision-making. On behalf of the SP Group, I would like to thank Mrs Dijkstra very much for her efforts. Its initiative legislative proposal to introduce an Active Donor Registration System (ADR) increases the likelihood that people on the waiting list for organ transplantation will be helped earlier, reducing human suffering. The introduction of this law means that more people are expressing whether or not they want to be organ donors. Now nearly 9 million Dutch people have not done so, while the number of people who want to be organ or tissue donors is significantly higher than the number of people registered so far. This is evident from various studies and from practice in other European countries. According to the VWS Ministry, post-mortal organ donation is clearly lower in the Netherlands than in most other European countries. As a result, a relatively larger number of people will have to wait longer for a body that is essential to them. This also means that more people die on a waiting list for organ donation. Under the current Donor Act, donation after death is only possible if an explicit donor application is made. If there is no explicit consent, the family may be asked for permission. Without donor registration and without the consent of the family, organ donation after death is now not possible. In the proposed Active Donor Registration system, everyone over 18 years of age is invited to make a choice. These choices are the same with the current consent system. They're known to be: I give permission; I'm not giving permission; my next of kin decide; a specific person decides. However, those who do not make a choice will be registered as having "no objection" to organ donation. "He who shuts up consents" instead of the present "he who shuts up doesn't consent." The particular feature of the explicit right to vote is that the choice can be adjusted and changed at any time. At the beginning of my speech it is also good to indicate what we are not talking about today: not about organ transplantation as such; not on future developments, such as organ cultivation; And not about the brain death protocol. All of them, however, are important issues which will certainly remain the subject of discussion in this Chamber in the coming years. But as far as we are concerned, not now in this debate. My party has long been a well-known supporter of an adjustment of the system of organ donation registration. Already in 2002, Agnes Kant filed a motion on behalf of the SP for the introduction of a non-objection system. However, her motion, supported by D66, Liefbaar Nederland and the SP did not make it. In 2005, she also tabled a motion on behalf of D66, ChristenUnion, PvdA, GroenLinks, LPF and the Lazrak group in which she advocated the introduction of an Active Donor Registration System, following the second evaluation of the Organ Donation Act. The evaluation revealed the continuing shortage of post-mortem donor organs, despite several measures to increase the number of registered donors. This motion received much more support, but didn't make it in the end either. Today, 13 years later, there is a majority in the House of Representatives for the introduction of an ADR because there is still a lack of donors. It goes without saying that my group supports the present initiative proposal today. I do not hide the fact that we have had intensive discussions in our group. Together, we recognise that even after the introduction of an ADR, there will be a shortage of donation bodies for a long time to come. And together we acknowledge that it remains unsatisfactory if many people in life do not make an explicit choice whether or not they want to be organ donors after death. As a group, we believe that every effort should be made to motivate as many citizens as possible to make effective use of the right to vote now given to them on their own organ donation. It's always better to choose for yourself than to be chosen for you. This applies regardless of which system of registration is used. The proposal is to convert the current consent system into a form of no objection system, the Active Donor Registration. From opt-in to opt-out, however, consent is not necessarily assumed, as is the case in a number of other European countries. With an ADR, everyone over 18 years of age is invited to make a choice. Residents who do not make a choice shall be registered as "no objection' to post-mortem organ donation. So the default setting changes. Now this decision lies with the family. When an ADR is introduced, life is not an implicit choice for organ donation after death. Thus, in the current, but also in the intended organ donation system, there is always a consequence. I'll come back to this later. The initiativer's reasoning for proposing this change in registration is clear. The number of post-mortem donor organs is lagging behind the need. Four of the five main recommendations of the Master Plan Organ donation have now been implemented, namely the further improvement of quality in hospitals, positive, more content-oriented information to citizens, attention to life donation and monitoring of effects. Unfortunately, these improvements have not led to the desired result of at least 800 postmortem donations. Over the year 2017, there were only 705. Almost 9 million Dutch people have not made a Donative statement, while a majority, according to various opinion polls, is positive about the donation of organs after death. The last recommendation of the master plan, introducing an Active Donor Registration, has not been implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Don says that everyone must be able to choose for themselves, that is better. But suppose it's someone's choice not to choose. Isn't that a choice for you? You say that non-choosing has consequences. That is not true if you say that everyone must be able to make their own choices. Not choosing is also a choice of your own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u5	There's no such thing as non-choosing. Whatever circumstance you look at, even in the current system, if you don't choose now, you choose to leave the donation decision, the permission that needs to be given, with your family. So not choosing always has a consequence. If you do not choose, then a choice has also been made in the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u6	One last question. Do you ever experience in your life that you can't make a choice and that's your choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u7	I often experience that I do not make choices, but do not make a choice in a particular situation or have a consequence. You should wear that consequence in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u8	I would like to ask Mr Don about the observation that making no choice also has consequences. That is also true in the current situation. Today there was an expert on the radio who said that at the moment 9 million people have not made a choice and that about 30% of the next of kin decide to be positive about donation. But there would be research to show that if you introduce ADR, it could decrease 30% by two thirds. Has that consideration played a part in your choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u9	Then he's an investigator. There are several researchers who produce different results. You are actually saying that if we choose an ADR, it could have negative consequences for the family's reaction. I don't know. I'm just telling you the truth. I don't know the investigation. You're referring to the radio. I don't know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u10	That is understandable, but the point is that there are currently studies that say that the number of donors will increase and studies that say that the number of donors will decrease. The question is whether you should look at how the quarter rolls through legislation or whether you should have more certainty before you introduce that legislation. How does Mr Don feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u11	You just heard me say something about the Master Plan Organ donation. The master plan had five points of interest. Four of them have been implemented. Those four are still being implemented and are subject to review every time. Each time you see that there is improvement in the current system, but yet people are still on a waiting list at the moment and yet the stated ambition is not met. Of course you can watch: gosh, there can be a little bit of this and a little bit of that. But as I look at it now, my conclusion is that we need to take another step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u12	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u13	So I understand from what Mr Don said that he also sees that we are at a research stage, perhaps more than at a legislative stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u14	No, you can't hear me say that. You can clearly hear me say that we are at this stage in the process of deciding on the future of the system. As far as we are concerned, this decision is: choose a next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u15	Onward on this point. The added value of the SP Group, which I believe is very serious, is very often precisely the fact that it has an eye for that whole group of people at the bottom of society. I mean, that's not derogatory, but it's about that big group, low-lettered, incompetent, actually incompetent, who just can't take three senses of government information. It is precisely the strength of your group to open its eyes to this. Now you are actually saying in so many words: it is very unfortunate for that very large group of people, but if they don't show up and apparently can't make a choice, we automatically report them for organ donation. Something personal. How can the SP take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u16	I suggest that you wait for my speech and come back with the question later. Now I've lost where I started. I'm just gonna start with another paragraph. There is now a waiting list of 1,100 people. Every year about 150 people die on this waiting list because a donor body has not been made available to them in time. Every year 100 people are taken off the waiting list because of their severely deteriorated condition, which means they are no longer transplantable. The waiting list produces another negative effect. The number of illegally obtained donor bodies is increasing internationally. That is an extremely reprehensible development. Can I ask the government whether our country will sign the 2015 Council of Europe European Convention against trafficking in human organs in the short term? Why hasn't this happened? How does the Minister estimate the size of the group of Dutch who use illegal organ transplants? Based on the current law on organ donation, the doctor submits the question about donation to the family if the deceased has not made an explicit choice for the donorship. This is a very serious question for the family at an extremely difficult time. Families generally find it difficult and difficult to get the donation question in the first stage of death. The result is that in 70% of cases the family responds negatively to the question. ADR also has such a consequence. If you don't choose explicitly in life, you will be chosen after death. By the way: if you have chosen, you can still be overruled by your own family after death, if it makes it plausible that the registered choice is really different from the deceased's wish. This "making decent" remains a difficult-to-understand concept within the context of the present legislative proposal. Can I ask Mrs Dijkstra to explain this further, including as regards the position of the doctor? The taker will always take account of the family's opinion, as Mr Farid Abdo made clear at the expert meeting in this Chamber. Does this mean that the family can be against organ donation of a deceased person and that there will be no removal of organs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u17	Where did Mr Don read in the bill that the family still have a voice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u18	You will hear me refer to Mr Abdo's statement, who told us that, but I did not find it in so many words in the bill. The questions we have asked about these are not included either. But so was your comment. We therefore call on Mrs Dijkstra to explain once again the concept of 'engaging' in order to perhaps give some tools for practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u19	For the sake of clarity of the discussion, the article on plausibility is about the situation that people want to deviate from the donor's potential wish if they have agreed or the supposed consent of someone who has not registered. What doctors are talking about is the situation that people have serious objections, regardless of the wish that the person has entered in the register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u20	I would like to give a brief response to that. I understand that in the current situation, the question of donation comes to the family with no choice. He'll have to say yes or sea. It has a duty to respond to this. In the future situation, in which, as it were, a choice has been made, explicitly or implicitly, this obviously steers the conversation between the doctor and the family. I understand from practice that there is already a supposed choice, either explicitly or implicitly, and that this makes the conversation much easier. Professionals indicate that they ask the question: person died, there is an active registration or not, but does the decision contained in the system, implicitly or explicitly, fit into the lifeline of the person concerned? Those frameworks are, as I understand it, currently regulated in the professional standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u21	Mrs. Nooren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u22	Two questions about that. Does this mean that the SP Group thinks that if people don't pronounce their will, it's always an implicit consent to donation? Does the SP Group consider that serious family concerns do not matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u23	No, you can't hear me say that. You can find out what's going on in that situation. We have a practice I have just said something about it which has organized itself according to a professional standard. Our question is whether you should not have a sort of standard framework above that practice. In that corner is my question. I have another point for you, Mrs Nooren. To make things a little more complex: I deliberately chose not to register and accept the "no objection" and I do not talk about it with my family. Then you have a reverse situation in which the question comes to my family when I myself have done something in life. Then of course the question is: why didn't you communicate with the family about it, why haven't you been clear about it? Still, that question comes with the family. Well, that's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u24	Mr Don says: I do not know exactly what is going on, but I understand that the doctor is going to consult. He also mentioned an example. The law provides that the doctor must inform the family about the registration and that the doctor does not have to consult with the family, but that the family has the possibility to make it plausible. The suggestion that the law dictates that the doctor consults is incorrect. It is true that one doctor, Mr Farid Abdo, has said that we always do, because we doctors do not want that. But a problem with the law is that the next of kin no longer have an official role. So you depend on the doctor and how he deals with it. That is precisely the criticism of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u25	You put a few words in my mouth, which I didn't say. I didn't say the word "law," that was Mrs Nooren. I've been talking about the term "making respectable." You're saying you don't know exactly. What I know, I understand from the profession. I repeat my question to Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u26	Mrs Martens would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u27	Does Mr Don agree with me that the law does not prescribe it that way? You understand from experts, but as such it is not in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u28	I have acknowledged that to Mrs Nooren. It's not written as such in the law. We do have a professional practice with a professional standard and I mentioned it. My question is about making it plausible. I would like to ask Mrs Dijkstra for further information on the position of the patient and the doctor. I'm allowed to move on, I suppose, Mr. Chairman. Doesn't organ removal occur when the family is against organ donation of the deceased family member? In view of these and the questions asked earlier, I think that consideration should be given to better defining the concept of "engaging" so that both the family and the doctor will know where they stand. I return to the main track with the demand for balance between the intended default setting and the consequences of the default setting. The answer to this question has no function for the current law on organ donation in this respect, but for the initiative proposal. We have looked at this question of balance from three perspectives within our group. I'll discuss this briefly. Starting with the moral side of this initiative legislative proposal. As a government, you're asking about your residents with this law amendment. Not responding, alive, to the government's call to make your choice means potentially becoming a donor after death. Does this force people to choose? It may feel that way, but it doesn't. If you don't choose, you'll be chosen. But we have dealt with more issues, up to and including voting rights in elections. If you don't vote there, your vote doesn't count in sharing seats. The division then happens without you. You will need to be aware of the proposed default setting. The report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy entitled 'Knowing is not yet done' has already been mentioned a number of times, and I would like to mention this briefly in relation to the concepts of 'thinking power' and 'doing power' used in this report. Coming up with something doesn't mean you turned it into action. This report is written from a perspective of self-reliance. The remark to take into account the differences in mental abilities of people is an important advice from this report to the government. Another opinion is important: help citizens with their choices by thinking carefully about how choices can be made. For this purpose, the expensive word "choice architecture" is used. The legislative proposal before us is driving citizens towards a choice, as the current system also guides us. This is for the reason with which it is based. We have also discussed the legal side of the matter in the context of the balance sheet. Article 11 of the Constitution and, inter alia, Article 8 of the ECHR are important articles on the protection of physical integrity. Physical integrity can be broken with a legal framework. The proposal for an initiative fits in with this. In this connection, we have read with interest Professor Buijsen's note for the purpose of the expert meetings. In his view, Article 11 and Article 22 of our Constitution are important in shaping human dignity as a concept in our society. The protection of the physical integrity, as a classical fundamental right, of potential organ donors is balanced with social fundamental rights. This legal consideration is therefore not an exact science, but based on an assessment and interpretation of what is ahead. How does this bill relate to the freedom of religion enshrined in Article 6 of the Constitution? Don't you place people whose faith forbids organ donation in an impossible position? I would like an answer from Mrs Dijkstra. The final perspective concerns the feasibility and practical implications of the proposal. For those people who are able to process the intended information from the initiative proposal, it is relatively simple. Make a choice and register it. And if you don't make a choice, you realize the consequence of this. But what is the situation for citizens who cannot process this information or have no knowledge of it? Mrs Dijkstra, assisted by the Van Gerven motion, has given extensive thought and answers to questions from this Chamber on how best to inform these people. But there's always a rest group that doesn't reach you well, no matter how well you as a government do your best. This isn't just the group of willless. So where is the responsibility of the government? I would also like to hear Mrs Dijkstra's answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u29	According to the SP, are people who adhere to a particular religion or ideology and therefore cannot make a choice or make a choice, forced to make a choice, or are there "equal monks, equal hoods"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u30	Would you repeat the question, Mr. Van Kesteren?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u31	Before this, I talked to you about choices. There are people who adhere to a particular religion or ideology and cannot make a choice on that basis. That is an important choice for them, which you deny. Suppose we have to deal with this, that will undoubtedly happen. Is this group of people outside this law or are you on the view of "equal monks, equal hoods"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u32	No, it's not beyond the scope of these laws. It's a theme. I am fed for asking questions from my constituents and in this case I am curious about how the initiator looks at such a dilemma. In principle, this is a law that applies to every Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u33	Mr Van Kesteren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u34	So the SP, chairman, is of the opinion that people who do not want to make a choice from a liberal thought or from a religion or from any other background, should be forced to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u35	I think that's too short a turn. This law does not force, but calls for a choice. If people don't want to make a choice, it's very simple: fill in "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u36	No choice can be made either, and I note that we do not come together on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u37	Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Don spoke in the last sentences of his speech about the rest group, which you will always keep, no matter what the government takes out to reach people. The people of this group do not understand and cannot make this choice. I understand that you are asking Mrs Dijkstra about the rest of the group. That's an attractive route, I understand, but I'm also curious how the SP looks at this rest group. What do you think is acceptable if this is a group of half a million people? Then you say, "Go ahead, we register them as a donor"? How do you handle the rest group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u39	That is what we are going to return to in the second term. Finally, I would like to put the question to Mrs Dijkstra, because I would like to hear her views on this. I would like to come up with a few more words in which I will give a further hand-pick in the form of a question. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u40	I do not rule out following you with this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u41	I was expecting that, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u42	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u43	I'm gonna have to do stripes when I quit. We know that people wait long and often in vain for a donor organ. We know that organ donation is accepted by most people as a means of prolonging lives or otherwise giving people a better life. We know that most people in our country prefer the new ADR to the current system. But we also know that explicitly asking for a choice will not in all cases lead to an explicit answer. It remains unsatisfactory that people do not make a choice in life, so that a choice is made for them after death. But we should tell people as honestly and clearly as possible that not choosing in practice also means choosing. We therefore believe that it is desirable, after the introduction of ADR, to impose an obligation on all health insurers to make explicit annual reference to their insured persons to the possibility and the desirability of everyone making a choice regarding post-mortem organ donation. This in addition to the times when citizens are already being reminded of the possibility of registering their post-mortem organ donation position. We are convinced that the more people understand how important it is to at least think about how you can actually do something for someone else in this way, the more positive the results will be in the long term. On behalf of my group, I would like a commitment from the Minister and the initiator on this important point for us. Finally. Despite campaigns, improved practices, medical staff training and logistical improvements, there is still a shortage of donors. New medical alternatives will be developed. Perhaps we will print organs in the future, but the situation is now acute. People are dying on a waiting list now. As far as my group is concerned, that is the main reason why we should now change the standard institution of the Organ Donation Act and proceed to an Active Donor Registration. The absence of commitment in the current law on organ donation shows that too many citizens do not yet make the choice and thus lay the responsibility of their families. Doing something for another with the realization that we can all end up in a situation where we are suddenly the other, as a group we see it as the core of this discussion. For my group, this proposal is a practical expression of the concept of solidarity. At the same time, I would like to stress that anyone here who makes a different assessment can, of course, count on our full respect. This also means that we take good note of everything that colleagues have said here on this extremely sensitive subject. Of course, I am also looking forward to the answer to the questions by Mrs Dijkstra and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u44	Thank you, Mr. Don. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u45	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Kesteren on his clear maiden speech, and I would like to express my admiration for the applicant for her great commitment to this very important subject. It's not an easy subject today. It is a subject that, on the one hand, gives the feeling of finally offering something that can really meet the screaming need for more organ donors, but on the other hand it has a number of elements in it that raises doubts as to whether this method does fully justice to anyone who might be involved. This means that a choice must be made, taking into account ethical and legal aspects, as well as medical principles and, of course, the question of the effectiveness of the measure. This is a subject that I fear I will have the uneasy feeling that I do not know if I have done the right thing even after making a final decision. It is clear that the initiative proposal first of all, at least with me, calls for a great deal of sympathy. It can provide a solution to a real and really big problem, a solution that can save lives. But then, after that, there are the objections that need to be weighed up and all the letters and e-mails with sometimes fundamental and sometimes heartbreaking stories, of which you must always ask how much value should be assigned to them. Mr. Chairman. The objection is that in principle everyone is included in the system and that those who do not speak up are available as donors: registration "no objection'. In doing so, the decision-making power is conferred on the legal representative. Where there is a legal representative to be heard, that is clear. But where there is no legal representative, the consequence is unclear. And there is the fear that part of the population is completely ignoring the impact of the law and the question that they are asked with it: the actually incompetent. There are several million people in this country who have difficulty reading and have no tendency to look at official communications seriously. Is supposed permission in place there? In the same context, there is an objection which is also explicitly mentioned by the KNMG Medical Association. In the case of removal of organs, the doctor must have satisfied himself that the donor was willingly qualified when he was registered as a donor, positive or titled "no objection'. This is a condition that is not always easily achievable, for example when it comes to dementia patients. An opinion of a general practitioner requested may be contrary to professional secrecy. Very often conversations with next of kin will solve the problem easily, but certainly not always, and here we also encounter the problem of the incompetent. Who will assess the will in relation to organ donation in that group and how will it do that? Another objection, which also comes from the KNMG. With a registration "no objection" you are available as a donor, unless next of kin can prove that you actually had an objection. That too is a difficult arrangement, both for the next of kin and for the doctors who have to cut the buttons. In practice, it is likely that the physician's objection will often be sufficient to waive the use of the patient's organs, but still. Wouldn't it be better to give the next of kin the right to refuse to use the loved one as a donor, or do we stay too close to the current system to make a difference? A frequently mentioned objection in letters and e-mails is the fact that determining death for a potential donor usually depends on the brain death protocol, while not everyone is likely to believe that brain death is really dead. Without questioning the basis of the premise that brain death is really dead and fully accepting the explanation of this by the Dutch Society for Neurology and the Health Council, the wide-ranging doubt remains a problem. If an "no objection" indicated is actually used as a donor, it can be an extremely traumatic thought for the next of kin or afterwards that the body of the brain dead is still alive for the rest and can also respond to the removal of organs. It is not surprising that the question of whether that is not really pain is being asked. The question is whether this consequence of donation in general, which is all the more praising in the case of no clearly expressed will, which is inevitable, is acceptable. Of course, information is very important here, but so far there have been doubts about the clarity and completeness of this information. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the legal or legal-ethical problem, which has, of course, always played a central role in the deliberations. Is the arrangement of the supposed consent of those who do not respond to the entry in the Donor Register in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the ECHR? It follows from both articles that everyone has the right to own their own body. In the opinion of the Council of State, it is expressly stated that, under circumstances, this absolutely appropriate law can be restricted by law if it serves a sufficiently high interest and if the legislation meets requirements of relevance, subsidiarity and proportionality. It is clear that the scheme can be relevant and that the importance of all those who are waiting for a donor body is so great that some even believe that the proposed law is necessary to comply with the human right to demand adequate health care from the government. The question of subsidiarity and proportionality is more difficult to answer. How effective the scheme will be in increasing the number of donor bodies does not seem entirely clear and therefore not whether other improved recruitment or any other system, the Israeli, for example, which also has problems, could not be a good alternative. In addition to its effectiveness, the rules of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act play a role in the consideration of the question of proportionality. For an intervention in the human body, the patient must give consent. The KNMG states that on its website it is clear that "informed consent" is needed for medical interventions. It must be made clear to the patient what is happening and the patient must give consent to what has been made clear to him or her. In the case of minor interventions, this may be implied, implicit consent, and for major interventions, express consent must be required. Only where the patient's health demands it and consent to the situation is not possible, of course different rules apply. But the rule does apply, we have to accept, for interventions after determining the death. A really large intervention in the body, such as the removal of organs, therefore in principle requires an explicit prior consent. For me, the central question remains whether the great importance of more donors, balanced against the normally necessary requirement of express consent, results in a positive or negative proportionality assessment. That assessment must take into account the other emerging problems I have mentioned and the effectiveness. I would like to hear both the applicant and the government about this total weighting. It's not an easy trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. For us today is the initiative legislative proposal which proposes to change the registration system for organ donation. There has been a serious shortage of donor bodies for years. This has led to a long waiting list of 1,115 people of whom approximately 150 patients a year do not receive an organ in time and die. That is almost every day someone who dies, with all the suffering and sorrow for the person himself, but also for his or her next of kin. This serious and persistent social problem means that we need to look carefully at whether we, as a society, have taken the right measures to reduce this tragedy. It is good to emphasise that today we are only talking about changing the donor registration decision-making system. The present bill doesn't change the brain death protocol or any other medical procedures surrounding organ donation. I will not go into that in my contribution. Since organ transplantation is possible from 1962, the legislator has to determine by country what the registration system is. Each registration system must choose a provision for what happens if people do not register actively or want to be an organ donor. In our current system, the legislator has chosen that people who do not register actively are not donors, unless their family decides otherwise after their death. This has led to three serious problems. Firstly, at the time of their death, a majority of Dutch people are not known whether they want to be donors. Secondly, a great burden is placed on next of kin. Thirdly, there is a major shortage of donors. I would like to comment briefly on these three points. Firstly, 40% of the Dutch registered in the current situation, 24% with a 'yes, I am a donor' and 16% with a 'no, I am not a donor'. Only 60% of the Dutch are not registered. This leads to difficult situations, because next of kin are asked to make a decision in a very sad situation where one usually unexpectedly lost a loved one. If you look at the 2016 figures, you can see that of the nearly 150,000 people who died in 2016 235 people have been donors. Two thirds of them died after a stroke or other cardiovascular disease, the rest due to accidents or suicide. In most cases, therefore, acute situations are involved. The family often has no idea if the deceased would have wanted to be a donor. Survivors choose relatively often not to make donations. In 2016, one in three survivors authorised organ donation after the death of a non-registered family member and we know from surveys that a majority of Dutch people want to be donors. Moreover, we know from research that relatives often feel regret afterwards when they have decided that their loved one is not a donor. The fact that 60% of Dutch people are not registered, therefore, not only imposes a burden on survivors in the event of acute death, but has also contributed substantially to the current large shortage of donors. We know from many scientific studies that the donor registration system has a major impact on the percentage of residents registered as potential donors. Countries with an Active Donor Registration System and accompanying policies have much more registered potential donors, many more family members who agree after death (90%-95%) and much more actual transplants than countries with a consent system. The current scarcity not only leads to tragedy in the Netherlands, but also to tragedy across borders. The current shortage of organs stimulates international commercial trade in organs, as demonstrated by the documentary BNN/VARA broadcast yesterday. The proposed Active Donor Registration System (ADR) does not or to a lesser extent have these shortcomings. It encourages people to be donors, while the current system discourages them. We now know from the behavioral sciences that people often follow a standard determination, and that standard determination is that if you do nothing, you are not a donor unless your family decides otherwise after death. Although surveys show that people in a majority are willing to be donors, only a minority have registered as donors. People who are very passionate for or against donation will register under an ADR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u48	I have a question or at least a concern about this, because it is known that people in surveys often give a socially desirable answer. Can Mrs Bredenoord imagine that this is the case in this case too, so there is a difference between what people write in a survey that just shows up, however it is done, and what people decide when they actually get that letter, so that the facts can be quite different from what surveys might reveal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u49	Thank you very much. Of course, every survey is sensitive to socially desirable responses. Now I have looked at all those studies that identify how many Dutch people are willing to be donors. Those have been repeated eight times over time to my knowledge. Each time, the percentage of Dutch people who say they want to be donors is between 60 and 50. Over time and over the years, this is quite constant. You can't figure it out any better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u50	But it's still a survey. There are other studies. It's just been investigated recently how many times people sleep together, I'll say. As in any survey, this included a socially desirable factor. He is also playing in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u51	It's a special example you're quoting. In any form of social research, both qualitatively and quantitatively, you only know afterwards whether the percentage is actually 50 or 60 in practice. Eventually, science is about probability statements. The more evidence you have, the more likely your verdict on that may be. No one can, of course, calculate how something should always be. I don't have that pretence either. Mr. Chairman. The proposed Active Donor Registration System... No, I'll come back to the surveys. Although surveys show that people in a majority are willing to be donors, only a minority have registered as donors. People who are very passionate for or against donation will register under an ADR. At present, over 60% of Dutch people say they want to be donors, but the majority have not yet registered a choice. This means that an ADR system that meets a large group of people who want to be donors but for whatever reason has not been able to register. In fact, the ADR system is more in line with people's preferences. The current system may seem better for self-determination, but that is very much the question. In many cases, the next of kin decide at this time without the choice of the deceased being known. The current system is therefore more of a survivor's decision-making system. The ADR system encourages people to make a choice for what they want to happen to their body after death and to make that choice known. So it can increase self-determination because more people are thinking about it. Mr. Chairman. It is certainly reasonable to assume that the ADR system will lead to more donors, which is good for those who are now on the waiting list. But it is also well understood self-interest, because the chance that you need an organ is many times greater than the chance that you yourself will be a donor after death. We all may not think it's about us, but that's about you and that's about me too. In other words, the initiative proposal actually asks people to move to make it clear whether or not they want to be donors. It asks people to think about something that is of social importance and that can be of interest to themselves and their families in the future. That is indeed the price you pay, that people who don't want to be donors should unsubscribe or register those who have doubts that they will leave the choice to the family, or register as "no" for the time being. It must be possible to do so very easily and be able to change every day. I would like to ask both Mrs Dijkstra and the Minister whether they can describe how this procedure of registration will be concrete, at what times people will be specifically reminded of this and what is needed for people to unsubscribe, because that is a very important condition. I would also like to ask Mrs Dijkstra and the Minister to address specifically the situation of lower-ranking people; they have already been asked to do so for me. Mr. Chairman. A neutral donor registration system is not possible. Each system has behavioural effects. The legislator must choose a system, and then, according to the members of my group, it is better to opt for a system where people are encouraged to register, which is believed to lead to more donations and where fewer people die on a waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u52	Back a little bit, because Mrs Bredenoord is now in the middle of a new chapter. If the majority is willing to donate if I follow the numbers you mention for a moment, 60% is willing to do so, and you say: actually, you're even better suited to the self-determination of people, because more people can start to say they want to be donors. That is, of course, the reasoning behind the large numbers, because there is still the 40% that is not prepared to do so. That's what today's discussion is all about. Those people who are not willing will not register. This indeed includes the group that you finally see as "no objection'. Would you care to respond to that? 'Cause that's still a problem, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u53	For example, we have already talked about: what do you do with the group that you do not achieve? In fact, we're asking people here who really passionately don't want to be donors to get moving and unsubscribe. It's good to realize that you have to move now if you're really against being a donor, because otherwise your family might make a different decision for you. So I think it is also good to realize that an opponent will have to move in the current system and in the proposed system, but in the proposed system people who are not moving because they are actually okay with it are supposed to have no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u54	Yes, I know the latter, but now the point is: what do you think of that, also in the light of your own speech? In that you say that we are still entitled to self-determination in the new system, whereas there are groups there who will not then make use of it and will still be dealt with in relation to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u55	I shall come back to that in a moment; we also ask Mrs Dijkstra and the Minister to go further into what information is to be provided. But the system eventually asks, and I think that as a society you should be able to ask each other: if you don't want to do this, you're going to have to sign out as actively as you do. I think that's an assessment of what people can ask of each other. Of course, there is a great social interest in this. If you say you don't want to think about it and you don't want to unsubscribe, that means you put the burden on your family members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u56	Mrs. Martens. Through the chairman, Mrs Bredenoord; that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u57	Mrs Bredenoord says: we ask people to move. Of course, that is an extremely important question and it is also a good question to ask, because the more you know what people want, the better it is for everyone, so for the patient himself, for the next of kin, for the doctors. That's the most important thing. But I'm still not clear why you need ADR for that. Why can't you invite people to register? I have mentioned a number of examples in my contribution where there is still a great deal to be done. Something has been done, I think mostly in hospitals, but if you look in the country when it comes to registration, then the question is whether so much has been done that so many people have never actually heard of that question at all. Then why can all this only be done with or within ADR? Why can't you do that now, even out there? You can always ask that question, but certainly also within the framework of the Law on organ donation as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u58	From the many countries around us that have taken all the adjacent measures, for example, we have intensified communication and donor shows, as we have also had, we know that it is ultimately marginal in the number of additional donors and that the incentive of reversing the decision-making system is the only thing that really helps to achieve that great growth. So it's really the combination of those two. We also know from research that the incentive for people to think for a moment if you would like to be a donor, of course combined with information campaigns, is necessary, and that lies in the reversal of the decision-making system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u59	There are studies that might indicate that, but I think there are so many more that say that the decision-making system is not crucial. Mrs Bredenoord talks about the system, but accompanying policy is also needed. Many studies say that this is a flanking policy. For example, in Spain, the great example always, the experts, also in scientific articles and so on, say: it is not the decision-making system, it is the accompanying policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u60	Now we're going to have a discussion about how to interpret those articles, because I think we...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u61	About diversity. I just want to highlight the variety of interpretations. But it is certainly not the case that science shows that it is only the ADR system. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u62	Science shows that a combination of an ADR system with accompanying policies is needed to have a higher number of potential donors per million inhabitants. It is quite clear that the countries that only feed one or the other do not actually reach those larger numbers of donors. However, as far as I have read the large stack of scientific articles, there is no discussion about the combination of these two in the scientific literature. That combination makes the big difference. You can see that. In one of the reports sent to us, for example, you can see the percentages in Europe. The countries that have a combination of both a well-functioning ADR system and a well-functioning healthcare system are well above 40 donors per million inhabitants. Then it gets less and less. So it's really that combination. In my view, that is what this bill proposes, to bet on both, not on one of the two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u63	I heard Mrs Bredenoord speak once again, also in response to interruptions, about the great social importance served by this bill. That triggers it, because I have to think of a lot of debates about terrorism legislation, privacy legislation and so on. If there is one thing D66 never agrees with, it is in the reasoning that the end justifies the means, even when it comes to security. The D66 Group, which is also perfectly legitimate, stands for personal freedoms and fundamental rights. Now we are talking about something so personal, organ donation, and an infringement of Article 11 of the Constitution, and now you are so accommodating. I would expect your group to be right in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u64	You are referring to a number of debates where I myself was chairman, so that also makes it easier for me to answer you. I honestly believe that this is a very different discussion, but I can say to you the following about the discussions on terrorism measures and the ANPR cameras, which we discussed last time: in the countries where a long retention period has been introduced, there has never been any evidence that this would prevent one attack. So that's a completely different discussion, a completely different consideration. Secondly, of course, we are simply assuming that people give permission. "No objection" can also be seen as a form of consent in other parts of society and in health care. So, frankly, I don't think the comparison is entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u65	I do not think so, because I think it all falls back on the right of self-determination, which you put in front of other dossiers. This is something I can taste very strongly: it serves such a great social interest, the purpose is so great that it justifies the means and justifies the violation of this fundamental right, which I believe you normally set a much higher bar there. Can I add a specific question to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u66	Before you ask the question, may I respond to this in advance, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u67	If you're gonna respond through the chairman, I'm okay with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u68	The first thing I said about this is that self-determination increases, because more people explicitly make a choice. And that leads to more registrations and less problems for next of kin. And I have said and-and said: and there is a great social interest and increased self-determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u69	Last specific question: in my speech, I quoted Minister Borst, who expressed objections in principle to the non-objection system. In 1996 was Article 11 of the Constitution heavier for D66 than today? Can you still reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u70	I think it's important to say that the discussion about the Organ Donation Act was 20 years ago. The proportionality discussion was completely different, there was no Masterplan Organ donation yet, all the next steps had not been taken and Thaler had not yet won the Nobel Prize for the economy. We know from behavioral science that people often follow a standard and that it matters what your standard is. I think, frankly, it was a completely different discussion 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u71	The ADR would push more people to think about donorship. Well, speaking of going to bed, I feel like a lot of people are getting up and sleeping with it. But will the ADR really help more people think about a social interest? Do you not think that people are thinking about donation and that they do not need the ADR system? And the final question: will next of kin, you say, sooner accept the fact that their loved ones have no legal objection to donation? Don't you think that pressure will help little to pull next of kin across the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u72	Mr. Van Kesteren has asked a lot of questions in a row. I'll start with the last one. Again, we know from experience from the countries around us, and again from scientific research, that as relatives have no idea of what their loved one would have wanted and which is not registered, in one third of the cases it is decided to donate. In countries with no objection, the conversation is conducted differently. Nine out of ten families eventually agree to organ donation. And we also know that if people eventually don't agree to organ donation, they regret that much more often. Extensive studies have also been carried out on this subject. So yes, I certainly expect that under an ADR system, for people who are registered as "no objection" or "yes," family members will eventually agree much more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u73	Mr. Van Kesteren, but not again such a whole series.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u74	Would there also be studies of next of kin who regret their decision afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u75	Several studies have been carried out. In both systems there is sometimes regret. Both decisions are sometimes remorseful. In a situation of acute death, in which people have to make a difficult decision, it will never be easy. No system is going to make that an easy decision at once. But I am convinced that it helps to make a choice when people are registered. This is supported by many different studies. That doesn't change the fact that one time it can stop people from thinking, "What have I done?" But now's a better chance of that happening. I would like to go further into the criteria on which this house is supposed to be judged: legality, enforceability and feasibility. Is an ADR system lawful? A first fundamental right to which consideration should be given is the right to physical integrity: Constitution, Article 11. Organ donation, under any decision-making system, may infringe the human body's right to inviolability, but Article 11 of the Constitution provides that the right to physical integrity may be restricted by legislation. The current law on organ donation is such an arrangement. When the WOD was created, it was concluded that Article 11 of the Constitution also leaves room for a system of Active Donor Registration. At the heart of the physical integrity provisions is that permission and information are needed to be able and able to possess the body of another person, both opt-in and opt-out as valid consent systems. In other words, the ADR system is compatible with Article 11 of the Constitution. But the conditions for each organ registration system are twofold. Firstly, it must be easy for everyone to change their registration. I have already asked the Minister and the initiator about this. Secondly, the government must do everything in its power to ensure that people are aware of the possibilities and what the consequence is of doing something or not doing something. I would like my group from the Minister to hear the government's short-term and long-term strategies to inform people and exercise their self-determination, including low-literate people and people with a different language. A second fundamental right to be considered: Constitution, Article 22. The public authorities shall take measures to promote public health. The government therefore has an obligation to improve the position of organ-needed patients and to shorten the waiting lists. I would like to hear from the Minister and Mrs Dijkstra how they view the government's commitment under Article 22 of the Constitution in the light of the current registration system and the proposed ADR system. Finally, on legality: the fact that more than 15 other countries in the European Union have preceded us shows that it is reasonable to assume that it will stand up at the European Court of Human Rights. Then there are the criteria of enforcement and feasibility. In particular, the members of my group would like to ask some enlightening questions about two groups: survivors and unskilled. Let me illustrate my questions to the De Vries family, consisting of Mr and Mrs De Vries and their two children. Suppose the bill has been passed and the ADR system has entered into force. There have been several information campaigns, but Mr De Vries has not responded to the calls and information letters and he has not had any conversations with his wife or children at home either. Mr. De Vries has a brain hemorrhage and dies unexpectedly. Mrs De Vries absolutely does not want her late husband to become a donor and objects. Or, another variant: Mrs De Vries indicates that her husband never opened the mail and couldn't actually read as well. Do family members, as in the current system, get the last word under an ADR system? What's it gonna take for family members to stop a donation? Can doctors, as in the current system, deviate from registration? And, if so, does it matter whether people were registered as donors or not? I would like a response from the Minister and Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u76	May I come back to the ECHR for a moment? I think we are all wondering whether it is holding up within the ECHR. All other opt-out countries work in a different way than the Netherlands. New is that the Netherlands, the government, will register people in non-registration with a presupposition. That's new; no other country records that. And the role of the next of kin is also different. It may be that the ECHR says this, but I think this is a very new and exceptional situation, for which the ECHR review will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u77	All countries have a different system or accent, but I think, quite frankly, that it is quite the same. Then you can go and see what the Council of State finally said about that. That has already been mentioned: there must be sufficient justification for it, consisting of criteria of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. I'll come back to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u78	I still have a question about that, because it's a struggle. What do we do now when people haven't expressed their will and they wouldn't want to be donors? In most other countries, the families have an explicit role to play in this. It's probably also laid down in the law. It's not like that in the bill we're discussing today. I wonder how Mrs Bredenoord looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u79	Mr. Chairman. I'm not quite sure. I cannot now state exactly the countries and the variants, but I am sure that there are countries which do legally give the next of kin a role and which do not legally give the next of kin a role. I have just asked some questions about this to Mrs Dijkstra. The way I see it now, there are two variants under the proposed ADR. One variant is that next of kin say "but this is not what my lover would have wanted at all, because..." you name it. Then I think it's going down that plausibility route. Once again, however, I would like to hear the opinion of the initiator. So that's actually variant one: probability. The other variant is the role of the family, because the family had great objections. In the current situation, it has been said that the family plays a role if there are major objections or major problems with mourning. If you were going to make that legal, you'd actually turn it back into a survivor's system. So that's a very difficult balance you have to look for. It is precisely that people register themselves, but in my view, and I have talked about this with the Dutch Association for Intensive Care Doctors but also with many colleagues in the hospital, the standing practice is that there is always a moment of consultation with the family, and I think it will remain that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u80	It is stated in the explanatory memorandum of the bill that making it plausible is literally about the will of the potential donor. It doesn't say that the will of the next of kin doesn't matter. We have asked several questions about this, including in the written round. At that time, the same thing was said every time, namely that serious objections may play a role in the doctor's assessment, but that is not enshrined in the legislative proposal. How does D66 feel about not being anchored in the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u81	I think that is the same as in the current situation. At present, the WOD does not explicitly state that there is a role for the next of kin in the event of serious objections. I can imagine that in the new situation it is the same, but as I said, it is a difficult balance. If you record objections from the family and write them all down, you actually turn them into a survivor's system, and we actually want people to register themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u82	We really want people to register. But when it comes to the bill we're discussing today, I'm not talking about anyone expressing their will. I'm talking about the unknown group of people that we don't know yet if they're going to reveal their will. The bill keeps saying: whether people express their will or not, the same rules apply. "Make respectable" is about the potential donor's will. That's the difference now, because if you don't announce your will now, then the next of kin are on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u83	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u84	Mrs Martens may have a question following this. Then you can answer in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u85	It fits in with this, Mr. Chairman. We've just talked about what's in the law. Mrs Bredenoord says that the doctors are going to consult, because that is also the protocol at the moment. But we're talking about the law. We are not talking about the protocols. Why don't we talk about the protocols? Because they can just change every year. My question to Mrs Bredenoord is as follows. You're supposed to be an organ donor. This becomes more normal, it becomes the "default" as the initiator calls it. If the default changes with this law, can't it be that the protocols are being adjusted much more easily to do more justice to that? So what certainty can we derive from today's protocols when it comes to the assessment of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u86	Mrs. Martens says you're supposed to be a donor. You didn't hear me say that. My primary goal is that everyone is registered, that there is more self-determination and that there is less uncertainty for next of kin. As far as I am concerned, it would be very nice if this would eventually lead to more legitimate donations. You have not heard me say that there is a moral obligation. To be honest, I don't quite understand where you were going. Then what's the certainty? You can't create a list or pin down all the exceptions. In the end, of course, a doctor at that time also has his duties of being a good worker. There are professional standards. The doctor is also a good thing to say that the donation interview is completely unrelated to the patient who would eventually receive the organs. So that's completely disconnected from each other. What guarantees that that will go well? Professional qualities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u87	One more interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u88	Just for clarification. For some, the protocols are now such that doctors will always consult the next of kin. That's not in the law. The law states that the doctor only needs to inform the next of kin, but not to consult. We just talked about that. But the protocols are reassuring to some that this law can be adopted and that the next of kin is still being consulted. To what extent is this reassurance really a reassurance and how long can this reassurance take, if the default for registration is different? Mrs Bredenoord did not say so, but the initiator in the reply did. There is nevertheless an attempt to create a moral setting in which it is normal to be a donor. You may choose differently, but the normal thing is being a donor. What guarantee do we have that it would not also have an impact on the protocols which would then be adopted and which could be re-established each year? They're separate from this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u89	As far as I'm concerned, the protocols remain as they are now, so that the conversation is just done after death. Surely it is unthinkable that there will not be a conversation with the family? I don't think that's possible. That is not happening now, and it will not happen in the future. In the report The organ donor registration system in European countries, the authors, four medical specialists, express the expectation that the donation interview with relatives will be less difficult than is currently the case. The expectation is that it will lead to fewer situations like the one I just mentioned. I would like a reply from Mrs Dijkstra. I would like to ask the same question about the position of people who are no longer able to give a reasonable appreciation of their interests: they were not able to do so. Suppose, Mr. De Vries became dementia at a later age, but when he was healthy he registered as an organ donor or he raised no objection. How can the doctor monitor this? How is donation handled in people who have become incompetent at a later age? I would like a reply from Mrs Dijkstra. Mr. Chairman. Today we have the opportunity to offer 1,115 people on the waiting list a future perspective. As a society, you want to do everything in your power to see if there are any options left for people who look death in the eye. Under an ADR: we can reasonably assume that the number of registered donors goes up; more people on the waiting list will get a perspective by getting an organ on time; is more likely to exercise self-determination than under the current system; There's more hope for clarity for survivors in the event of sudden death. All things considered, the members of my group consider it reasonable and justifiable that we as a society should ask each other to move if you do not want to be a donor. The members of my group are therefore inclined to support the bill and look forward to the Minister's and Mrs Dijkstra's replies to clarify the position of next of kin, the lack of will and the provision of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u90	Mrs Bredenoord mentions several objectives of this bill: more transplants, more registrations, more awareness of potential donors, better position of the next of kin. Can she indicate what is decisive for her now? Imagine if the evaluation showed that three of those four weren't reached, but there are more transplants. How does she look at the success of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u91	I see the aims of this law as twofold. On the one hand more registrations, more self-determination, more obvious to next of kin. That's one way. The second goal is more donations. So if an evaluation were to be carried out showing that, for example, the number of donations did not increase significantly, but many more people could have made a choice about this themselves and, for example, the post-mortem conversations are easier, less traumatic, then it can be fine that the law can be seen as successful. These are really two important objectives for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u92	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. Mrs Strik, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to join in congratulating Mr Van Kesteren on his beautiful maiden speech. I would like to congratulate the initiator for the submission of this bill and for obtaining a majority in the House of Representatives. The aim of the proposal is to contribute to a pressing social problem, namely a structural shortage of donors. The Netherlands scores poorly with the number of post-mortem donations compared to other European countries. This means that patients die prematurely and that sick people on a waiting list get much sicker before an organ heals them. Greater availability of donor organs prevents not only premature death, but also deterioration of patients' health on the waiting list. The polls show that a large majority of people would have no objection to donation. So we know that many potential donors are lost because they have not determined their choice. The rising line in the number of transplants in the countries where the system of "no objection" has already been introduced gives confidence that more people can be helped in the Netherlands as well. At the same time, my group is aware of the depth of the reversal in the authorisation system. This can affect the importance for people to have their own body and direct. That has already been widely exchanged in this Chamber today. The government has a responsibility to both dimensions derived from the Constitution. The provision of an effective donation system can be derived from Article 22 of the Constitution, which instructs the public authorities to take measures to promote public health. But Article 11 guarantees the inviolability of the body and Article 10 guarantees the right to privacy. Article 8 of the ECHR has already been mentioned and there are similar provisions. In her reply, the initiator added the fundamental rights at issue as equivalent to each other, noting that, in general, there is no order of precedence between fundamental rights. In her view, in the event of a conflict of rights, priority can be given to a balance of interests. However, this reasoning does not address the distinction that is usually made between the position of classical fundamental rights and that of fundamental social rights. Compared to classical fundamental rights, social rights are to a lesser extent enforceable and operational. The nature is also fundamentally different: the government has many possibilities of giving form and content to a duty of care, while the protection of a citizen from the interference of a government is quite one-dimensional. Abstinence and a duty of care cannot therefore simply be aligned and weighed against one another. Does the initiator recognise these differences and, if so, would she like to comment again on the constitutional test she has taken? The initiator also refers to the preamble to the current Donor Act, in which the legislator refers to Article 11 of the Constitution as justification for drawing up rules on organ donation. Mrs. Bredenoord just pointed out the same thing. My group believes that this comparison may not do enough justice to the fundamentally different approach adopted by the initiator in her legislative proposal, namely no longer requiring explicit consent. Doesn't Article 11 impose much more stringent conditions on this amendment than on the current law? I'd like an explanation. My group recognises that Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution are not absolute rights, but that legal restrictions on them require a well-founded justification that demonstrates the legitimate objective, but also the necessity, subsidiarity and proportionality. I have already addressed the legitimate purpose of an Active Donor Registration System in my introduction. The aim is to increase the number of organ donations in the Netherlands. In this context, could the initiator discuss the use of bodies for scientific purposes, to which the consent also applies in principle? Does this aim not also require another test of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity? I'd like an explanation. As far as the need for organ donation is concerned, this proposal does not exactly fall out of the blue. For decades, the government has been trying to meet the needs of donor bodies by encouraging people to make themselves available as donors in many ways. The Master Plan Organ donation, as far as it has been carried out since 2008, should have generated 25% more post-mortem organ donations. Unfortunately, that percentage has not been reached. Even in the end, the numerous information campaigns have not achieved the desired effect, at least not enough to meet the need for donor bodies. This poses a major social problem, for which the government rightly continues to seek a solution. The Master Plan Organ donation also included the recommendation to switch to a yes-unless system. And although the government has not so far done so, according to a majority of my group, the limited effectiveness of the other measures justifies moving on to this system. In particular, because the Body Donation Coordination Group concludes that initiatives in other areas cannot solve the waiting list problem. However, I agree with Mrs Nooren's conclusion that we are always talking about a whole system of measures, so that accompanying policies must also be pursued. The infrastructure, working methods in hospitals and so on: if this does not seem to be sufficient in total, then such a step is justified. Subsidiarity requires the government to do as much as possible to comply with the consent principle. It will have to make every effort to ensure that no response actually means that someone is aware of the consequences and agrees with the donation. This places great demands on information for citizens: the frequency, the channels of communication, the content of the information and its accessibility. This applies both to the comprehensibility and the range of that information. A differentiated approach will also have to respond to the needs of, for example, low-literate people, people with limited intellectual abilities or migrants who have limited control of Dutch. In the written documents, the government replies that specific information material will be developed to allow these groups to make an informed choice. To this end, a communication plan would be drawn up and a budget made available. Can the Minister explain what specific intentions there are to reach and inform particular categories of people? Do both the Minister and the initiator share our view that this tailor-made approach is already necessary in the current situation? So will the government also invest in it if this proposal is not adopted? We support the initiativer's view that, if the legislative proposal is adopted, the new registration system can only enter into force if a sufficiently informed public can be used. When does she and when does the Minister consider that this point has been reached? What steps must have been taken to achieve this? Mr President, even if written information is supplemented by audiovisual material, it will not always lead to an awareness of the consequences and the possibility of choosing. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which has already been referred to, recently warned about new dividing lines in our society. Not everyone understands government systems and arrangements, not everyone is capable of self-direction and self-reliance. In some situations this awareness will only take place with an individual approach, for example a conversation. There is no explicit provision for this at present. How does the Minister and the initiator look at this and which profession could play a role in this? Could the general practitioner possibly help people who he suspect will not see the consequences of a choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u94	Mrs Strik says that accompanying policies are needed to reach citizens. She mentions campaigning, or at least informing people. She also wants more donating people to come, or at least more organs to become available. Should the information then be aimed at becoming a donor, or should it also be aimed at providing fair and complete information to the public on what exactly does donation mean? Through the expert meetings we know that there are of course quite different facts to tell the public. How does Mrs. Strik feel about that? Should we confine ourselves to purely more organs and more donors, or should we also give the rest of the information? Sometimes it can be very confrontational.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u95	I think it is very important to inform people as objectively and neutrally as possible and to indicate the social importance of donor registration. Anyone can be on a waiting list. That's the other side. Anyone can get into the situation that he needs it, but of course the information must be as clear and objective as possible. It shouldn't be propaganda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u96	So if I understand Mrs Strik's answer correctly, it could also be information that is considered less positive for the donor. Because, of course, there's information that doesn't advocate being a donor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u97	I don't know exactly what information Mr. Van Kesteren is referring to right now, but it's a far-reaching choice people make. So people need to be very aware of the possible consequences and the effects that such a choice has. So, indeed, all possible consequences need to be mapped out, but I cannot foresee exactly what incorrect or demotivating information Mr Van Kesteren is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u98	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u99	I assume Mrs. Strik has also followed the expert meetings. Maybe she listened very selectively. One of the women I mentioned told me how she experienced it that her husband suddenly became a donor, while she was no longer professionally involved in the removal of organs, but more as a wife with the nose pressed to the facts. That's what I'm talking about. That is very important information. She indicated that this is often not mentioned in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u100	I have the impression that Mr. Van Kesteren is referring to the way in which communication, guidance, etc. go into hospitals. I shall come back later to the question of whether there is anything to improve on this. Of course, that must be clear, but I do not know whether donor registration should be preceded by a detailed explanation of exactly what is going on in the hospital. Let's make sure it's implemented as carefully as possible in hospitals. Mr. Chairman. In addition to those citizens who have more difficulty in getting the consequences understood, there are, of course, those who are reluctant to do so. My group believes that it is important for doctors to be consulted on this bill if it is adopted. Moreover, the current law also provides for the possibility of organ donation without permission; it has been discussed more often today. After death, the survivors may decide to grant consent without the donor's registration of the person concerned. Precisely because so many people have not been registered and the preference of the deceased was often unknown, survivors are faced with an extremely difficult and painful dilemma at an already sad and stressful moment. What kind of decision is good if no mention has ever been made of organ donation during the person's life? Insofar as the proposed system actually encourages people to think about and decide on organ donation, relatives and the government will more often have the certainty of consenting to donation of the person themselves. In addition, people can explicitly record that they leave the choice to their next of kin. This may also reduce the frequency of this group's remorse of conscience. However, this does not necessarily remove doubts about the will of those concerned if they are only registered with "no objection'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u101	I would like to ask Mrs Strik a question about this. Now, 66% of the cases involve family refusal if someone is not registered and the question is asked in the hospital. Then you would say that there is a lot of profit to be gained, but if there is a renewed effort to raise awareness in families about what someone has wanted, even though they are not registered. You say that the new system has an advantage because it provides clarity, but the point is that the non-objection category does not provide clarity. Then you could say that it is important to work on awareness, so that the family knows what the deceased wanted if possible. But that's both relatively independent of the system you choose. So the question I would like to ask is: is the greatest profit still to be made in reducing the number of family refusals, including in the current system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u102	That is true, of course, but how do you reduce the number of refusals? I think it helps to think about organ donation in life. Then the next of kin do not have to decide for someone else, but the person himself has already made an informed decision. Either he himself has decided, or he registers that it is up to the next of kin to decide if he can't choose, if he doesn't think it's important either, but if he thinks it's more important what the next of kin thinks and how the next of kin experiences it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u103	The point is that this is relatively independent of the system. In the new ADR, it is also unclear what someone wanted in the case of "no objection'. So in all cases it is important to work on awareness. So why would you have to go to an ADR? You say that it becomes clearer for the next of kin under ADR. So that's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u104	As I have just pointed out, it only works with very good communication and with promoting awareness of and thinking about organ donation during life. I understand from the initiator and I have had assurances from the Minister that it will go hand in hand with that communication, so that you may be able to clarify that there is no objection if there is no "objection' registered. You never have the certainty. That's right. I was about to start with questions about the category 'no objection', but perhaps it will become clearer for a larger group of people whether they agree or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u105	Whether the category "no objection" gives more clarity to the next of kin remains to be seen. It may become even more unclear what the person himself wanted. If you want to be a donor, you don't have to register anymore, because you already are. In another respect, therefore, the uncertainty for next of kin becomes greater. But I actually wanted to say something else. I actually wanted to ask Mrs Strik: how can you make the next of kin say yes earlier? I would also like to draw your attention to the recent thesis of Radboud University on approaching next of kin. The person who made the promotion also spoke at the expert meeting. He said: the way of approaching next of kin makes an awful lot of difference to a yes or no. People get disappointed and frustrated by the way they approach. Sometimes that happens under pressure of time. The research of the NTS shows that even if you add a coffee lady, make coffee, create a familiar atmosphere and talk in haste. That can already make so much difference and help so much. So there is still real profit to be gained, even within the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u106	Thank you, Mrs Martens, for this supplement. I think you're quite right about your story about improving communication and space and guidance. This applies both in the current system and in the system proposed here. Perhaps there is something else about the statement that 'no objection' does not give any clarity at all. I think it is an improvement that a distinction is now made between 'yes' and 'no objection'. In any case, the person whose "yes" has been registered has really wanted that explicitly. In this no-objection situation, it may be possible to check whether that person really wanted to do so. Then I come to my questions about that category. Maybe it's useful that I ask them first, Mrs. Nooren. Otherwise, I'm gonna say the same thing later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u107	Mrs. Nooren's salt is still on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u108	You salt it up, okay? However, this does not necessarily remove doubts about the will of those concerned if they are only registered with "no objection'. My group therefore considers it crucial that doubts expressed by relatives as to whether the deceased has consented are taken very seriously by the doctor. And that's not legally sealed. The law requires that next of kin make the objection plausible, and that can be an immensely difficult or even impossible task. Do the Minister and the initiator recognize this and, if so, what criteria do they set for such a plausibility? Is this also being worked out in more detail? Mrs Martens also asked about this this morning. In this context, can they, therefore, the initiator and the Minister, comment on the exact legal position of survivors in such situations? During the hearing it was reassuring to hear that doctors in doubt among the relatives do not make donations. This came back in the response of the Dutch Association for Intensive Care (NVIC). After all, this would add unnecessary additional suffering to the grieving process. But that's just a practical fact. It may not provide sufficient legal certainty. Is the Minister prepared to consider in an evaluation how this plausibility requirement will work out and whether it should perhaps be softened? And what if it turns out it's too difficult for the next of kin? According to the initiator and again the NVIC, the current practice that no organ removal takes place in the event of serious objections will be maintained. That is an important commitment, but would that not be better understood in more detail? Article 23 (2) of the bill will provide for rules to be laid down in the protocols of the hospitals on how to deal with information from next of kin. Well, that could provide a handle for those detailed rules for that. But does this provision itself provide sufficient legal certainty? This question actually applies both to the current situation and to future situations, although in future situations you may have to deal with this more often, in relation to that no-objection category. I shall now move on to my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u109	Do you keep an eye on time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u110	Yes. I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. During the hearings and from all reactions to this legislative process, we heard many stories about the traumatic experiences surrounding the transplant process. A certain tension between quick action and giving next of kin time for decision-making and saying goodbye may never be completely removed. Nevertheless, the importance of good guidance, information and communication is always crucial. The Netherlands scores well at European level in terms of donation and transplantation programmes, but apparently there is still much to improve in the light of noise. The protocol on organ removal requires extreme care, and the Minister will certainly endorse it. But does he recognize the stories about negative experiences and see room for improvement? What actions does he provide to ensure that the whole process of organ withdrawal for relatives does not in any way prevent mourning? Mr. Chairman. I have dealt in this contribution with a number of crucial conditions that the new system should meet, and have addressed both the Minister and the initiator. The Minister will be responsible for implementation, but the initiator has endorsed all these conditions in the legislative process. Can the Commission explain to what extent careful application of this law and a clear legal position for survivors determine its plea for the adoption of this law? When does it consider the law to be a success in the evaluation? Is that just the availability of more donors, or also the greater awareness of citizens, more registrations and fewer problems or dilemmas with relatives? And what if the law can only be called partial success? In other words, how does it weigh these different goals, or is there a single primary objective and some additional objectives? Mr. Chairman. Change in the donor system is a decision that affects all Dutch people: both their health and their right to self-determination. And although we here as co-legislator always take decisions that concern the Netherlands and the Netherlands, the coming vote feels like an extra great responsibility. With a decision on organ donation, the government can hardly get closer to a citizen. Several polls show a broad majority in favour of the proposal, which is more positive than the current system. That's important, but it can't take the place of individual decisions on donation. The number of registrations has already increased during this legislative process, which shows that the discussion about organ donations has been triggered. This in itself is a great achievement for the initiator, because greater awareness is important for every registration system. Mr. Chairman. Finally. My group is convinced that the proposed amendment to the Donor Act could lead to greater availability of donor bodies and more conscious choices about whether or not to donate. However, we are also aware that to some extent it may constitute a limitation of physical integrity. A bill of such a principle does not lend itself to party discipline, but requires an individual consideration. We have, of course, shared all the arguments and facts as a group, but the final weighting is different. Three of the senators consider that the proposed registration system is permissible because of the social importance of the bill, provided that the guarantees I mentioned in my contribution are met. They are considering voting in favour of the bill. One of the members of the political group believes that the decision on one's body can only be taken explicitly by the individual himself or his next of kin, and therefore in no circumstances should it be the responsibility of the government. He will therefore vote against the bill. Moreover, this preview does not alter the fact that all the members of my group attach great importance to a careful answer to the questions by the Minister and the initiator. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u112	Madam President, thank you very much. The VVD Group also naturally congratulates Mr Van Kesteren on his maiden speech. As a former graduate of the University of Groningen, I am from the department "the more Groningers, the better." So I'm glad you're here, and now you're inducted. Mr. Chairman. The members of the VVD Group would like to start this debate by expressing great appreciation and respect for the initiator, Mrs Dijkstra, but also for those who supported her in her work. On 19 December 2012, she submitted her own initiative proposal to the House of Representatives, no doubt after a considerable time in which she prepared the initiative proposal. Now more than five years later, the Senate will finally be treated. Once again, it looks like, the vote for the initiator will be tense, after the acceptance in the House of Representatives with one vote difference and, it has been recalled, with an opponent with O/V problems and an advocate who, like the new Member of Parliament, replaced an opponent who had just before become mayor. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as I say with some hesitation, are currently, I am afraid, unable to contribute much to reducing the tension of the initiator and her support. For for all Members of my group, they will, to a greater or lesser extent, take their final position here in the First Chamber after the examination of this bill. Probably a plethora: the VVD Group also has the primacy of its own individual consideration for each member. This means, Madam President, that it is not easy for me as a spokesperson in this debate, because there are various views, thoughts and considerations in my group at the moment. So it is very difficult for me to make one speech on behalf of the VVD Group. I would ask my fellow Members to understand this fact and, therefore, I might be able to respond a little less directly and concretely than you are normally used to. You will also hear my own opinion only in the final votes. Mr. Chairman. There have, I think, been no proposals that my group has given as much time and attention to as this initiative proposal to amend the Organ Donation Act. This is not only by participating in the written preparation and hearings organised by the Senate, but also by having a detailed exchange of views as a political group with interested parties and experts. Quite rightly, because if the Members of my group agree on something, it is that there is a serious problem. Every year thousands of Dutch people are on a waiting list for organ donation, each year about 150 countrymen die on a waiting list. Although the Netherlands is doing well internationally in living donations, there can be no discussion about the fact that this is not the case with postmortem donations. The policy objective of 800 donations per year is far from being met. In 2016, there were 689. In short, there is a serious problem. As far as we are concerned, there is no discussion on this. But what the discussion is about is whether the initiative proposal to introduce an Active Donor Registration System into the law on organ donation is a good and proportionate solution to this problem. The answer to that key question is currently at odds in my group. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into these different ideas, I would like to outline the framework within which the Members of my group wish to make their assessment. As has already been said, there is a serious problem and it has been a long time. There has also been a law for a long time, namely the Law on Organ Donation, which dates back to 1998. The core of the current law is the opt-in system. Any citizen can register in the donor register with "yes," "no" or "a person designated by me can decide for me." 40% of the Dutch have registered, 60% with "yes'. In total 24% of people are registered as "yes." 60% didn't register. But contrary to what many people think, not registering on the basis of the current law does not mean that you cannot become a donor, as it turned out to me, especially before this debate erupted. According to the current law, the next of kin decide in case of non-registration. A clear majority of the next of kin, 70%, refuses consent in case of non-registration. But also in the case of a yes registration, family members may object. In practice, organ donation is not applied. There are some Members in my group who think it is actually wrong that wills can be changed by next of kin. They're having trouble with that. Other Members of my group understand the practical and emotional concerns that may arise if this is changed. What about it, the initiator did not propose any amendment to the Organ Donation Act on this point, so as such there is no possibility for the Senate to change the law. It will therefore continue to be important for those who have registered with "yes" to discuss this with the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u113	In my view, this legislative proposal represents a change in relation to the next of kin, because they no longer have a say, not even with those who are registered as 'no objection'. I thought Mr De Grave said that the bill remains the same on that point, but I think the bill says exactly that the position of the next of kin is changing. They don't have a say anymore. They may only make the objection to non-registered persons or otherwise plausible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u114	I am fully aware of that, but I was not talking about that. I was only talking about the situation with a yes registration. With a yes registration, next of kin can say: it's not going to happen. Then it doesn't happen in practice. I would like to explain to you that a number of Members of my group have reservations about this in principle. I indicated that we cannot deal with this discussion at the moment, because there is no proposal on that point. That is a completely different subject. On that subject, which you have already interrupted on a number of occasions, I will come back to you in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u115	I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u116	No, no problem. I shall come back to your point in detail. Mr. Chairman. I'm returning to the balancing framework. In 8% of cases of a yes registration, the survivors object. For the numerals: that is 2% of the total. Of the eligible population of the Netherlands, 24%-2%+30% of the 60% are non-registered, with the consent of the next of kin, i.e. 40% donor and 60% are not. But as has already been mentioned: opinion polls consistently show that two thirds of Dutch people would like to be organ donors. There is, of course, always discussion about opinion polls and desired answers, but this gap is very large. The Netherlands is clearly lagging behind the European average with the number of potential donors. The current law on organ donation has been evaluated three times. In 2001, the evaluation concluded that the opt-in system does not need to be changed, but that an intensive information campaign is needed. The target of 25% more organ donors was formulated. The second evaluation of the Organ Donation Act in 2004 confirmed that the development of the number of organ donors was lagging behind the objective. But it was only in the third evaluation in 2006 that it was stated that the shortage of donors was so large that the possibility of a system change in the law should be examined from opt-in to opt-out. In that system, you're a donor unless you say you don't want to be. In response, the then cabinet established the Coordination Group Organ Donation, the CGOD. This group presents a large number of proposals in the Master Plan Organ Donation, such as improving the quality of the processes of organ donation in hospitals and large-scale information campaigns. These proposals have all been taken over by the cabinet at the time. Or as the chairman of the CGOD put it at one of the hearings: everything was taken out of the closet. But one proposal from the master plan did not take over the cabinet in 2011, namely the proposal to create a form of an opt-out system. The following quote has been quoted before, but it is an important quote. I quote: 'The assumption that a person wishes to be a donor if he or she does not object to it, the cabinet considered an infringement of the right to self-determination, which can only be justified if that infringement is without doubt a significant increase in the number of donors. However, there are too many uncertainties about this." This cabinet response is, in a way, in line with the opinions of the Council of State. This High College of State does not take a stand for or against, but indicates that the right of self-determination is not a legally absolute criterion. An opt-out system is not contrary to Article 11 of the Constitution, to the inviolability of the human body, or to Article 8 of the ECHR, provided that it is regulated by law in a formal sense and if proportionate. The cabinet used this same proportionality argument in 2012 not to take over this part of the master plan. A little later, the initiator came up with her proposal. Originally, the initiative law contained a proposal for a purely opt-out system. You can register with "yes" or "no" or you can record that you leave your choice to your next of kin or a designated person or persons. In case of non-registration, you are registered as "yes." By letter of amendment, this has already been amended before the beginning of the plenary debate on the other side. No choice shall be recorded separately, linking to this non-registration the legal fiction that the person concerned has no objection to donation. Hence there is no longer talk of an opt-out system but of a system of Active Donor Registration. Mr. Chairman. Parliamentary documents show that the next of kin is also asked for an opinion on the Dijkstra own-initiative proposal in the event of a proposed organ removal. There is a lot of discussion about this, so I quote what I myself read in the explanatory memorandum, which is part of the legal treatment: "In practice, this means that there is no organ withdrawal if the relatives object." In 2015, 8% of the yes registrations did not ultimately take place. In practice, therefore, the next of kin is always taken into account. In the case of violent and emotional objections, the next of kin will in fact have a decisive voice. This will not change as a result of the present legislative proposal. Article 20 (5) provides that, where they have information to make it likely that someone does not want to be a donor, despite a yes registration or no registration, they may submit it to the doctor. It is a light form of burden of proof and has no formal requirements. In practice, a doctor will follow the judgment of the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u117	The explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal suggests that this is only about the situation in which the potential donor's wish is incorrect. It literally says: "The will of the next of kin doesn't matter." The situation you are talking about is the situation in which someone has registered themselves positively in the current system, but there are serious conscientious objection that the doctors decide that it is not necessary to take out organs in the interests of the family's processing process. Have you read it differently from my group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u118	Yeah, I'll get that feeling when I hear the amount of interruptions about this. I feel that I, or at least my group, have a different view of this at the moment. It is therefore extremely important for the initiator to give a detailed account of this. This is a crucial part. We read it like this. It is crucial that we compare the new law with the current law. There is no blank situation. There is no situation where nothing is arranged. There are already arrangements. Through the legislator society has formulated certain requirements and certain consequences of certain behaviours, for example if people do not want to decide. That has been the debate before. That is not a value-free situation. Then there is a situation that we, as a society, have said: that must be decided by next of kin. There is now another law, and in that context we need to make these considerations again. What we consider very important is to hear very clearly from the initiator how she thinks about the difference between the current law and the new law in relation to the position of survivors. That is why I have also given those quotes that this change is relatively small and that it is very difficult to rephrase it. We ourselves were convinced of Mrs Borst's other contribution. In such debates, she indicated how difficult it is to lay down these kinds of moral limits precisely in laws and regulations, and that you must therefore have confidence in the way in which doctors deal with them in practice and in the way in which they have regulated them in protocols. I remember the discussion I had myself with the representatives of the KNMG on that point of making it plausible. Every lawyer knows that the term "making respectable" is a very light form. If, as the initiator writes, you do not impose any formal requirements on this either, then in practice, it means asking the next of kin how they come to the conclusion that the person concerned would not have wanted to do so. I myself gave some examples of this at the time. One can say at that time: I spoke to Father a half hour before his death, or a day before, and he changed his mind. Then all the doctors confirmed: that's enough. The VVD Group considers it important that what is now happening in practice be maintained. That is to say: all doctors indicate that at that time you do not discuss with relatives; you talk to each other and you come to a conclusion. The crucial difference will have to be, but that is another point, which contributes to more registration, but as far as we are concerned this should not lead to a fundamental change in the position of next of kin. That is why we are also very interested in the answers to the questions asked by the CDA and the PvdA, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u119	How does Mr De Grave look at the legislative proposal in terms of making it plausible? It is a question of deviating from the wishes of a potential donor in the light of the doctor's judgement, especially in the situation that people have not raised any objections, and what is not in the current protocols and directives. So that has no legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u120	Yes. Once again, you will have to compare it with the current situation. There is no legal basis for the situation of the next of kin. It's based on how that goes in practice. I was trying to imagine how that goes in practice. The starting point for discussion with the doctors' representatives is that at that time the situation is that donor registration is no longer: yes. A distinction is made between "yes," "no" or "no objection." At that time, the doctor says: "Your father is registered here as someone who has no objection. The legal fiction is that he could be a donor. What do you think of that?" That's how it's gonna be in practice. In that case, the parties concerned will provide arguments as to why they might not wish to do so. That can consist of two ways: large, own emotional objections. I do not think there is any difference of opinion on this, in the sense that it remains the same, as is the case with the current law, at least that is how we understood it. You are shaking from no, but I am also looking at the initiator, because it is her law, and I am looking at the ownership of the explanatory statement. That's one point. The other point is when it comes to making it plausible that it is different with those involved themselves. We have also discussed this in detail. To make that plausible will have to consist, for example, of the considerations I have just given, namely free of form and light. In practice, it will mean that this is my assessment and I will also take it from the explanatory statement that the judgment of the next of kin will be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u121	Of course, we must wait for the answers of the initiator. That is why we are holding the debate today. Isn't the big difference between the current law and the bill that the article on "making respectable" came into it? Is it not true that the same chairman of the KNMG you are quoting asked us in writing and at the expert meeting whether that article could not be removed, because this will lead to legal uncertainty for doctors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u122	You may know that I have some connection to the world of doctors. You may have noticed that a lot of doctors' organisations are very much in favour of this bill. In short, we must be careful not to make this absolute. I have more of a legal problem. That's exactly what I've been saying to those involved. I asked them: how do you imagine this in practice? Then how do you propose to formulate this? You then end up in a very complex discussion about exactly how to shape the legal wording when it comes to what the will of the next of kin was in the situation we have. I and the members of my group prefer to reason in the way I think the law is now in place, namely that in practice the doctor will ask this. The next of kin then gives their arguments. They will have arguments as to why they do not want organ donation. As far as I and my group are concerned, these arguments must be decisive, so that the next of kin have the last word in practice. This legal wording makes this plausible because doctors ask: why do you, as next of kin, think that there should be no organ donation here anyway? That may well be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u123	Mrs Nooren, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u124	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Isn't it a crucial difference that it makes it plausible if someone is registered and the question is asked whether it is true what it says, in this case someone is registered as a donor, I suppose that question isn't asked if someone is not registered as a completely different exercise? I am very curious whether Mr De Grave and his group have given any thought to whether there is 'no objection', because making it plausible is then a very different exercise than derogating from a registration of something that is fixed, namely: I am in favour of donorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u125	Very much will depend on how things work in practice. We are talking about a very complex situation, a situation where the donor's will is not there. Mrs Nooren is incredibly stressing this, but she does not seem to find it a problem that, in the current situation, it is even possible for the next of kin to put aside a will decision, or that the next of kin have to answer that question because, in 60% of cases, there is no opinion of the person concerned. That is also complicated, difficult and difficult. I'm comparing that to the situation where there's a non-registration. That means a legal fiction of 'yes', while the next of kin have to answer the question of 'do you think this is in accordance with the wishes of the person concerned? I can imagine that, if they do not want to rely on their own beliefs, their own objections, they would like to rely on the fact that the registration of the person concerned is incorrect. They'll have to report it. This has to come from something like: the person concerned has changed his mind, the person concerned has said something else on his deathbed, we have talked about it at the last minute, but he or she hasn't gotten to the registration anymore. Or, what is also very common in all these situations, there is doubt as to whether there has really been a will decision. The doctor will be consulted. There may also be low literacy, or emotional-psychic problems. These are all circumstances, and we have discussed them in detail with doctors who, in practice, will follow the judgement of the relatives on the concept of'making good'. That's not what a doctor's arguing about. That seems to me to be better than trying to lay it all down legally, because that would put you in a legal situation. Then you end up in a situation where judges might have to judge that. I think the starting point should be to ask the next of kin in such a situation: what do you think of this? I gave the examples. If it is said that this cannot be in line with what was found by the person concerned, then the doctors must follow it. I don't think that's contrary to the law or the intention of the law. I would also urge the initiator to do so. In the other situation, the next of kin do not want it, they have serious objections, but that is no different from the current legal situation. In this situation, even if the person concerned has said "yes," there will be no removal of organs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u126	Please continue your argument, Mr. De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u127	Moreover, in a subsequent letter of amendment, the initiator applied an important improvement in the registration system, in my group's view, by including in Article 10 that every adult resident is periodically informed about her or his donor registration, at least once every 10 years, and how to amend it. This is also done with each application for a passport, driving licence or identity card and when it is renewed. My group expects important positive effects of this in that the number of non-registrations in the sense of no "yes" or "no" will decrease, because those involved will be regularly confronted with the issue of organ donation and the way in which they have decided on this in the donor register. This brings me to a question to the Minister for Medical Care. Can he say anything about the deadline for implementing Article 10b? Has it been discussed with the municipalities? Have any appointments been made? And have any agreements been made on the costs? Madam President. If we as the VVD Group are to look at all of this, then we must be aware that we regret the extent to which, in our opinion, there has been too much talk in the political and social debate, not here but elsewhere, of few fruitful enlargements and duplications of realities. For example, supporters have often, however understandable, emotionally pointed out that the bill could save many lives. Apart from the fact that it is difficult to objectively determine the extent to which this bill would lead to more organ donors, the use of this argument suggests that opponents have lives on their consciences. We don't think that's a good way to argue. But opponents too often use great words and inaccuracies, if there were to be state expropriation of human organs. My group very much objects to that image. It's not a state expropriation. It is a dilemma that lives in society, in which we as a society and as a regulator try in the best possible way to regulate. That's not state expropriation, that's our job. Mr. Chairman. If my group soberly looks at the initiative law as it now stands in the Senate, in a balance with the maintenance of the existing law on organ donation, then it must be concluded that there really is little cause for such great words and enlargements. In fact, the differences between the current situation of the Organ Donation Act and the new situation on the basis of the Dijkstra proposal are limited: an undisputed proposal introduced by letter of amendment to Article 10 and the core, introduction of a system change, in the sense that where in the current law non-registration means that your next of kin decide, in the proposed system the legislator connects to non-registering the legal fiction that the person concerned does not object to organ donation, but in practice, but well, we have talked about it in detail. Thus, the core weighting has been reduced to the answer to the question of whether this relatively limited system change contributes, and if so to what extent, to the uncontested interest of more post-mortal donations and whether the contribution to this interest outweighs a, albeit limited, impairment of the right of self-determination. Finally, this brings me to a reflection of the feelings and thoughts that currently exist in my group. Part of the group feels most attuned to the argument that, after lengthy efforts by various Cabinets on the basis of various reports, a substantial increase in the number of donor registrations has been made, now that the time has come to use the last option, namely the legal introduction of a moderate ADR system, as advocated by the Coordination Group Organ Donation. At the same time, advocates use the argument that the promotion of registration is desirable, precisely on the basis of the important liberal principle of self-determination. It is better that the individual himself indicates what is desired after death, so himself has, than to leave this to the next of kin. Another part of the group supports the problem, but feels most attuned to the reasoning that the ADR system is undesirable as an over-infringement of the right to self-determination. The use of post-mortem organs, however of social importance, is so far-reaching that it should not be decided on the basis of a legal fiction, even if in practice, in the case of non-registration, i.e. by legal fiction consent, the judgment of the next of kin is always sought and followed. These members also have doubts about the extent to which the system change will actually contribute to increasing the number of donors available. Finally. Another part of my group feels the most closely related to the argument that the introduction of an ADR system is such a far-reaching and socially controversial measure that, while recognising the seriousness of the problem, this instrument should only be legally introduced as a last resort, once everything has been done to increase the number of organ donations without a change in the legal system. In doing so, this part of the group expects many of the measures included in the letter of amendment to Article 10. This part of the group realizes that the Senate can only say yes or no to the proposal before it and that they will eventually have to make a choice that they would not have liked to make now. After all, a vote against is also a vote against the desired measures in Article 10, but a vote in favour is also a vote in favour of the currently inappropriate introduction of a moderate ADR system. Finally, my group would like to ask the Minister for Medical Care at what time the introduction of the new registration system would be possible if the initiative law were to be adopted and whether he could say something about how society would be prepared for this. Others have asked for that too. Madam President. My group has no specific questions to the initiator. The treatment so far has been exhaustive and complete. My group, of course, invites her to comment on the thoughts and considerations which live within my group. I can assure her that the members of the VVD Group are listening very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u128	Thank you, Mr. De Grave. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u129	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Van Kesteren on his maiden speech and, on behalf of my group, I congratulate the initiator of this bill, who has worked hard and long on this proposal. A long and happy life; we wish it to each other and wish it to ourselves. Today we are debating how such a long and happy life can be facilitated with the help of donor bodies of people who no longer need those organs themselves. Their organs can live on in the body of someone for whom getting such an organ is literally vital. Debates about life and death usually stir up a lot of dust in this house and in the social debate, but also among lobbyists who move in large numbers on issues like this. Many of the arguments for and against Active Donor Registration have already been reviewed. The First Chamber is not there to do good, but to prevent evil. Today we have to decide what the good and what the evil is of the present bill, which has been adopted by the smallest possible majority in the House of Representatives. It is clear that a large majority of Dutch people believe that it is a good thing that organs can be transplanted and that it is a bad thing that there is a shortage of donor organs. There is a lack of knowledge and awareness around the donor codicil. The question is whether automatic donor registration can solve that problem and whether the term "active donor registration" applies to this law, which is based on passive donor registration. Those who do not report will be registered as donors against will and thanks. The solution provided for in this legislative proposal is very important in terms of people's privacy. The choice of whether or not to make your organs available after your death is not easy. It requires careful consideration not only for yourself, but also for consultation with the people you love. A decision that can be so far-reaching must be able to be made very consciously and calmly, far away from moral coercion or financial incentives. My colleague Esther Ouwehand asked for respect for the right of doubt during the treatment in the Lower House. Doubt is a phase in a ripening process. It wouldn't be good to ban it. Mr. Chairman. This week, we all received an e-mail from Professor Johanna Schonk, in which she, as a specialist in medical information systems, has serious objections to the ADR on a subject that has not been discussed before. Professor Schonk states that the proposed amendment to Article 9 (4) of the Law on organ donation would sanction fraudulently acts by the government in relation to the donor registry. A person who has not responded to the repeated call to record his or her will regarding organ donation in the donor registry shall be registered in the donor registry as a person who does not object to the removal of his or her organs after his or her death. This wording gives the impression that the "no objection" is an explicit expression of this person. Medici and next of kin will consider the so formulated registration as an authorisation to have or have at their disposal the organs of the body not yet dead for donation. The fact that the person in question did not respond to the call for registration does not, in the opinion of Professor Schonk, give the government a licence to interpret the failure to register at his discretion and then to attribute a judgment to the deceased who did not. Professor Schonk speaks of an unfounded interpretation that triggers interventions in the death stage, which can be considered administrative fraud by the government. This is a far cry from a respected scientist. I ask the author of the bill to respond to this. Hans Wiegel, former member of this House, pointed out that the Liberal MP, Mr Annelien Kappeyne of the Copello, in the great revision of the Constitution, proposed the inviolability of the human body and thus defended that parliament and government took over. Many people, including in this house, feel a tension between that article of the constitution and the bill we are discussing today. The Council of State has pointed this out before. Our former colleague, Ethica Heleen Dupuis, has also repeatedly expressed reservations in principle about a government that is going to regulate this. It refers to Article 11 of our Constitution, which anchors the inviolability of the body. The view of the director of the Telders Foundation, Patrick van Schie, is also very clear. In an interview with the Volkskrant, he called the bill "the deepest unliberal." He wrote "I quote "My body is mine. The government cannot claim that." Now that parties have identified the bill on this other form of donor registration as a free issue, the position of members within the various groups seems to be crucial. It would be good for the quality of the debate if, in the second term, the spokesmen, more than they are now, presented a picture of the various considerations that have been made in their group so far. All the more so since there are only 12 spokesmen in this debate, and 75 will be considered at the vote, many of which will not be shared with the audience. Apart from the political balance that we must make here and now, it is interesting to note in particular the arguments of scientists who are critical of the new law. Something that wants to be regulated does not necessarily lead to good legislation. The fact that there was such a small majority in the House of Representatives before this law indicates that there was reasonable doubt there too. The question is how much of that doubt the applicant considers to have been removed after treatment on the other side. Britta van Beers, Associate Professor of Philosophy of Law, believes that the bill is contrary to the fundamental right to physical integrity on several points. Constitutional history and case law show that the right to physical integrity primarily protects citizens against the infringement of their bodies by others, unless they have given explicit and informed consent. Moreover, according to the legislator, this fundamental right continues to work after death. In 2013, as well as in subsequent opinions, the Council of State ruled that the legislative proposal at the time, which was supposedly rather than explicit consent, infringes the fundamental right of physical integrity. Today we have to ask ourselves whether there is an informed consent from donors as required by Article 11. That question is essential, given the way the bill obliges people to make a choice. According to Van Beers, the discussion about the definition of concepts such as "brain death" and "heart death," as raged in recent weeks and described by a quality newspaper as "fake news," reveals a much deeper problem. The question is how informed citizens can be about a high-tech practice in which developments follow each other at a rapid pace and create new moral dilemmas. Even the legislator can't handle the pace. Therefore, the Organ Donation Act leaves it to scientific committees to periodically define brain death in so-called "brain death protocols." There is now an alternative way to determine death. Van Beers says that, according to the Health Council, it is already used in more than half of the cases. These are registered donors who are not yet brain dead, but who are being treated, and in whom an imminent death is to be expected. With a view to organ withdrawal, these donors can be disconnected from the ventilation equipment which will cause cardiac arrest at some point. Once the cardiac arrest is deemed irreversible, the organs are removed. In the Netherlands, a waiting period of five minutes after cardiac arrest is currently considered to be the absolute minimum in order to continue to comply with the "dead donor rule." However, this period is under pressure due to the acute shortage of organs, not only for organ transplantation but also for scientific research. The Belgian non-objection system, which is regularly cited as a positive example for the Netherlands, indicates the sliding scale that can emerge outside the consciousness of the citizens. Without many Belgian citizens having much interest in it, the regulation was adapted in 2008 so that their proposed consent is now also considered to apply to the donation of their body tissues to science. Please respond to this from the author. Van Beers writes about this, I quote: "If even the legislator is chasing the facts, how can you expect citizens to know what they, whether silent or not, agree with? Thus, a system of Active Donor Registration not only threatens to allow tacit consent, but also uninformed consent to organ removal." If the law were to be passed in this house, the government would have the hard task of providing much better information to all concerned. The question is whether this improved information could not have led to active voluntary registration of more donors than is currently the case. The question is whether everything has been done to justify a measure as far-reaching as it is now before us, especially in the light of the conflict with the Constitution. Citizens who are not well informed, because the information from the government does not reach them, cannot be disqualified from self-determination over their own bodies on the basis of ill-informed. The Constitution prohibits this, and the legislator should protect citizens from it. It is not sufficiently clear how people with intellectual disabilities, people who are illiterate or people who are not interested in information sent by the government could thereby lose their right to self-determination to a government that believes that two letters should be sufficient to actively claim that right of self-determination. The Constitution does not have such a structure, and in that respect alone, it is very doubtful whether a legislative change in that order should nevertheless be possible. Of course, it is of great general interest that more donor bodies should be available. However, this calls for a change in the social standard, not for the expropriation of organs from patients who have not given active consent. Mr Prast has come up with a brilliant concept to change the social standard in the field of nutrition. Where, during official dinners, even in this house, serving meat during meals is the social standard, just as a few decades ago, the social standard prescribed that cigarettes should be provided to guests during parties. They must indicate that they have an abnormal diet, for example that they do not want to eat meat or fish. Mr Prast invented a simple way to change that social norm as a behavioral economist. She suggested serving a vegetable menu by default and, for everyone who wanted it, adding meat or fish to the menu. No one's freedom would be affected by this, the standard meal served was suitable for everyone and anyone else wanted to do nothing more than send an e-mail or make a phone call. The title of the proposal was "Carnivore, pass it on." The effect was great. In practical experiments it was found that where in the old situation up to 5% of participants in dinners preferred a meal without meat, less than 5% of participants took the trouble to order meat or fish when the social standard was reversed. Although it was also a question of life or death in this example, it is incomparable to the choice of whether or not to be a donor. A menu preference can change three times a day and it has hardly any consequences if you forget to mention that you are carnivore. The vegetable meal is suitable for every omnivore and the basic carnivore will not soon forget to let you know its preference. The fact that this brilliant concept has been unused for years indicates how much people attach to habits and resist change of those habits. Consumers generally do not want them to be chosen, even in cases where they can change that choice with little difficulty. If such a small effort, which would have great positive consequences for animals, nature, environment, climate and world food distribution, is already too much for many people to make the proposal widely acceptable, there is little imagination that expropriation of your organs encounters much greater resistance. The adoption of the bill in the Lower House has had a social reaction that many people who were carriers of a donor codicil have undone it from the thought that the government is improperly violating their right to self-determination. Arts and philosopher Bert Keizer wrote about this last year in Trouw: "What I didn't consider was that the practice of organ donation is not only about the happy recipient who gets a heart or a kidney, but also about the unfortunate donor who is dying. The pain is in that death. If you wait for all the signs of life to disappear, the transplant team can stay at home, because then the organs will also have died. So you actually have to enter the body just before death to get the organs out in the best possible condition. But when you put it that way, nobody wants to donate, because what exactly do you mean by "just before death"? Mr Baay spoke about this a moment ago. Student researcher Pepijn Weeder did research at Harvard Medical School on organ donation and attended dozens of organ donations. For him this was a reason to look at organ donation differently, more critically, and to advocate modification of cardiac death and brain death protocols. He said about this in 2016 in NRC: "It is an appointment made decades ago. I don't think the way things are done now is wrong, or unethical. But also not optimal for donor and recipient." I would also like to hear a reflection from the author of the bill. Mr. Chairman. There are too many uncertainties, there is too much conflict with the Constitution and too little has been done to actively encourage citizens to voluntarily complete a donor codicil. Members of this House may vote freely on the proposal before us. The Party for Animals makes a compelling appeal to you to grant that freedom to every Dutchman. The principle of silence does not apply to the way in which this house of reflection works, nor does it fit in medical-ethical considerations that deeply interfere with the privacy of donors and their relatives. My group sympathizes with everyone who is on the waiting list for a donor body. My group believes that the government should do everything possible to get more donor bodies available, but this should always be done on a voluntary basis and never by a decision of the government. A free choice is the deepest liberal principle enshrined in our Constitution. Let's cherish and defend that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u130	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 5:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u131	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill 33506, the proposal for a law of member Pia Dijkstra amending the law on organ donation in connection with the inclusion of an active donor registration system. I give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Own-initiative legislation is usually a long process. Today we are discussing a bill that, when it becomes law, will affect everyone in the Netherlands. I'm deeply aware of that. That you take the time in this Chamber to consider carefully all aspects of this law, I therefore understand very well. I would like to thank you all here for the many questions that have been asked, both today and in the written rounds of questions that preceded it. I have also noted with great interest the expert meetings which took place in this Chamber and which allowed for different views. I am convinced that this thorough preparation will contribute to a good and substantive debate. Of course, I have already seen a taste of that today. I will do my utmost to answer your questions thoroughly, to provide the desired clarity and to remove concerns or doubts. Mr. Chairman. Before we deal with the proposal before us, I would like to start by commenting on my motivation for this. I'll give you an introduction. I find that motivation in the stories of people who, while there is a serious shortage of donor organs, are on the waiting list for a long time, sometimes for many years. An organ that is not always available on time. But my motivation also stems from the hopeful stories of people who have been given a second life thanks to a transplant or for whom the quality of life has greatly increased. I was recently at Patricia's house, who's been on the waiting list for new lungs for four years. She still has 16% lung capacity. In response to the question whether we could interview her, she said: "Very much. I've thought so many times: let people come here, so they can see with their own eyes what waiting means." The experience is that when people see her situation up close, they suddenly act and record a registration in the Donor Register. A similar story applies to Jeroen. He gets liver cirrhosis and at some point it becomes clear that only a transplant could help him. And then something beautiful happens, because the whole village is going into action. Sports associations pay attention to Donorweek and organise all kinds of activities around him to draw attention to the importance of organ donation and the recording of a choice. Jeroen was transplanted three and a half years ago and he says he can do anything again. These stories show that people often only realize the seriousness of the situation when something happens in their immediate vicinity. Only then do we really think about it and I understand that very well. That's my own experience, too. Because the choice of organ donation is very complicated. For some people, it's even downright scary, because it requires you to think about your own mortality and record what may happen to you after you die. And of course we can never think lightly about such a question. However, I think it is a question that we can ask everyone. To everyone, precisely because when it comes very close it becomes so intuitive. Everyone hopes that an organ will become available in time when it concerns someone in your immediate vicinity or perhaps yourself. Because if something has become clear to me in recent years, it's that it can really happen to anyone unexpectedly. At the moment it has been said before today, but I repeat it again: 1,115 people are on the waiting list and every year they die around 150 patients while they are on that waiting list and about 100 patients are taken off the waiting list every year because their condition has deteriorated to such an extent that they are no longer eligible. Mr President, I know and I have heard it from everyone today: everyone in this Chamber is going to love these stories. I think I can also say after what I have heard here today that everyone recognises the importance of organ donation and would like to see the number of organ donors increase so that more people can be helped. So we do not disagree on that. That is the starting point. It's very good to establish that with each other. The purpose of the bill before us today is for everyone to have their own choice, knowing that more people would like to become donors than they are now registered and knowing that relatives are very often saying no when they have to make the complicated choice at a time when they have just lost a loved one. I will explain today, in response to your questions, how I intend to do that and how the legislative proposal takes account of the different interests involved. I hope to include you in this balance of interests, which ultimately convinced me that an Active Donor Registration System, as it stands today, is best suited to the different interests. I would just like to briefly explain how registration works in the proposal before us. The existing consent system is replaced by a system of Active Donor Registration, ADR, and the choices that people can make remain the same as those in the current system: "I consent," "I do not consent," "I leave it to the next of kin or to a specific person." From the 18th year onwards, every Dutch resident will be registered with a donor form. It asks for a choice to be made and explains that a person who does not specify a choice is registered as a person who has not objected to organ donation. If no response has been received after six weeks, a reminder will be provided explaining once again what the consequences are if you do not register and if you do not respond. Subsequently, the person concerned shall receive a confirmation of the registered choice within such a period of six weeks. And, I repeat it once again and it has already been said today: that registration, you can change that choice at any time. I'm sure I'll come back to that. In this way people are encouraged to actively reflect on their choice of organ donation. Whatever you choose, you're free. I'll come back to that, too. This system, which I propose and which is contained in the legislative proposal, therefore makes it easier to make the choice for organ donation. More than 60% of Dutch people want to become donors, according to successive surveys, but a large proportion of them are not registered. To address that large group, that is the objective of the legislative proposal before us. By addressing them, we can also increase the number of organ donors. At the same time, this means that people who do not want to become donors have to do something about it. The demand is therefore less non-binding than in the current system. Moreover, it is important to note that those who do not want to become donors must also do something about this in the current system. Also in the current system you only have if you "no" register the guarantee that you will not become a donor. I'd like to explain. I would like to explain why I am explaining the present bill, no, why I think that the bill before us is already a little late at noon to justify and justify it. The current system leaves the possibility of not laying down a choice, but that is not without consequences, as I said. The legal consequence is that choice is left to the next of kin if one has not made a choice. This currently accounts for 60% of people who have not made a choice should organ donation be on the agenda. Within that group there are probably people who do want to be a donor, but have not recorded this. That is also very often confirmed. When you ask in conversations with people "are you actually an organ donor?', Then it's: no, I want to be, but it didn't come of it. Doctors will then ask the next of kin to decide. So at the moment you have the right not to make a choice, but in practice that means that someone else has to do it for you. That too, of course, is a choice. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Van Kesteren and Mrs Baay-Timmerman, who were wondering whether we could deprive people of the right to choose. The right not to choose also deprives others of the right not to choose. In fact, that makes it a choice. After all, you choose to leave the choice to someone else. That's a very difficult one for the next of kin, it turns out. I therefore prefer that people take the decision on organ donation themselves at a time when they can think about it quietly and discuss that decision with their neighbors. This can also prevent the next of kin from being taxed at a very emotional moment. Doctors accompanying next of kin point out that this question is actually an impossible question at an impossible time. With the current 'default', as Mr Don called it so nicely, so the standard setting 'that's what I think is a good Dutch word for'salary' should be chosen by the next of kin. According to the doctors who have to ask this question, this leads to very difficult situations. It is therefore not surprising that the majority of the survivors say no when asked to give their consent. Many of the next of kin seem to regret that choice. The doctors who ask the donation question and work in the emergency room or intensive care, therefore argue in favour of a closed registration system as is currently the case here. They do this not so much from the point of view that in this way more patients on the waiting list can be helped to a donor organ, but rather because they think it is very important and are convinced that they can better guide next of kin in this way and that it benefits mourning. That is also an important aspect. Moreover, I understand that the choice of organ donation can be incredibly complex and that people want to take into account the wishes and feelings of their next of kin. When people think about organ donation, they also want to take this into account. I understand. Therefore, the present proposal also leaves the possibility of explicitly leaving the choice to the next of kin or a specific person. And next of kin will know what they're up to. If you take care of that, register and discuss it with your next of kin, they'll know it. If that is not the case and the doctors' relatives are told that it is stipulated that they are allowed to make the choice, then they know that their neighbour has also given them the freedom to make the choice. That really is a different question than how it is regulated in the law at the moment. The choice to leave the decision to the next of kin or a specific third person remains valid in the legislative proposal we are discussing today. In fact, this means not choosing in the current system, because even if you don't choose now, your next of kin have to do so. This also caters to those who cannot or do not want to make the choice themselves. The freedom of choice remains intact, because a choice can always be easily changed. I say this to Mr Van Kesteren, Mrs Baay-Timmerman and Mr Van Dijk, who asked for this. Mr President, in addition to trying to relieve the burden on the next of kin, I think there is another justification for the proposed legislative amendment, namely that experience shows that almost everyone who is dealing with organ failure would like to receive a donor organ. But when someone comes on the waiting list, that person depends on another person's choice, depending on another person's willingness to become a donor. That is the question that this proposal is about: would I like to receive, should that be necessary? Would I want my beloved, my children, my friends to have an organ available in time, should that be necessary? Inciting people to register their own choice is what facilitates this bill. Whether it's "yes," "no," "choose my next of kin" or the fourth option, "specific person," doesn't matter, because that choice is still open to people. And that is really very important to me to keep emphasising. But bearing in mind that people also like to receive when needed and with all the stories of patients who are seriously ill on the retina, I think that we can ask people to make a choice. Moreover, the importance of organ donation is widely recognised. That was, of course, also the issue here today. Research carried out by TNS NIPO in 2011 shows that almost everyone thinks organ donation is a useful topic, that concerns all people and that it is worth thinking about. In addition, 88% of those questioned felt it was important for someone to make a choice about organ donation. This new way of registering increases the pressure to make your own choice. But there is something else: it is much more transparent than the present one in its consequences. Whether next of kin will choose "yes" or "no" if you don't let them know, isn't now clear in advance if that hasn't been discussed; it hasn't been discussed very often. In the present bill, you know that you agree to become an organ donor if you do nothing. It says "no objection." If you don't want to, you register in a different way. But then it's clear what you've chosen. The consequences are clearly explained and you have every opportunity to say no. Everyone is reminded of this regularly. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Je kunt het ook wanneer je maar wil wijzigen.]] I say it again very explicitly, and that was mentioned here by some speakers: it is not the government that makes the choice for you. You are. You're the one who agrees. It is true that this proposal gives the government a preference for 'yes', because the default, the default, indicates that. But it also makes sense, because that is in line with how the population thinks about organ donation and is in line with the fact that, if necessary, everyone wants to receive an organ. In this way, solidarity is paramount. The condition is, of course, that someone can oversee the consequences of non-reacting. A lot of questions have been asked about that too. For vulnerable groups, such as low-literate people and people who are incompetent, additional safeguards are therefore needed, and I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u133	May I ask: did I hear the initiator say that the government does not make the choice? But the government records, doesn't it? Isn't that a choice? Is the registration not "no objection" in the eyes of the initiator not a choice? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u134	The registration "no objection' is the choice of the person who does not register otherwise. That is why it is so important for me to come back to that in detail, so that we can ensure that everyone can see that consequence, from knowing what the consequence of non-registration is. I mentioned it for a while: a lot of people say they want to be but they didn't register it. That facilitates these people. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the proposal must comply with the Constitution and with a number of important criteria, including necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity, as also formulated by the Council of State. In view of the many questions that have been raised, I would like to begin my contribution. I would then like to comment on the likely effectiveness of the proposal, as well as its proportionality. Then I will look at the efforts made so far to reduce the shortage of organ donors and the various measures taken to optimise the donation structure. The question I will raise is to what extent profits can still be achieved in the current system. After that, let me just mention it; then everyone knows about what he is up to. I would like to comment on the position of different groups of people within the proposed legislation. I would like to begin by talking about the situation of next of kin. Questions that have been asked about how to make it plausible that someone did not want to be a donor and how to deal with serious concerns of relatives themselves, I will take them into account. I shall then turn to the rules on willlessness and the obligation on the doctor. I shall then turn to information and how this information can take into account people who are low-literate, because they too must of course be able to make a choice and see the consequences of non-reactors. Finally, I would like to address the other questions that have been raised but which do not relate directly to the issues I have just mentioned. Mr. Chairman. The constitutional framework is governed by Articles 11 and 12 of the Constitution. On Article 11 of the Constitution, honourable Members asked Mr Van Kesteren, Mrs Baay-Timmerman, Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Martens, Mr Kuiper, Mr Don, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mrs Strik, Mr De Grave and Mr Koffeman. I don't keep calling everyone. I'm gonna say, almost everyone. But still, first of all, let me tell you who asked for this. The right to the inviolability of the human body is enshrined in Article 11 of the Constitution. That article states that everyone has the right to inviolability of his or her body, but the same Article 11 also states that this right may be restricted by legislation. The present bill is such a legal arrangement. But, and there should be no misunderstanding about that, the current law on organ donation is also a legal regulation that restricts the right to inviolability of the body. Indeed, the current law assumes that in order to comply with Article 11 of the Constitution, it is not required to have the express consent of the person himself. If someone hasn't made his own choice, it doesn't mean that this person isn't a donor. In the current legal consent system for organ donation, organ donation can also take place without registration if the next of kin consent. The present legislative proposal also proposes a legal regime in which someone can become an organ donor without express consent but as a result of tacit consent. It has already been considered by the government at the time that both an authorisation system and a non-objection system are not contrary to the Constitution and that Article 11 Constitution leaves room for both systems. So that was in 1996; then the law was dealt with and it entered into force in 1998.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u135	About Rule 11. You are contrasting the current situation with the situation you are proposing. A major difference is, of course, that Article 11 protects against state interference. That is something other than that the choice can still be submitted to the next of kin. Could you perhaps comment on the difference between these two?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u136	Yes. This is also regulated by the current law; you rightly say so. The legislative proposal as we propose, of course, assumes that people who have not objected have considered its consequences, and that all efforts are being made to do so, and that this can therefore also be a deliberate 'no objection'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u137	But the difference is, Article 11 protects me and you from government interference. You say that this system is also in accordance with Article 11 and that it includes the possibility that someone else may consent to it. But that is not the government, and I think there is a difference in principle. Then it is good that you show that your system could still fall within the scope of Article 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u138	Perhaps I can explain this by saying a little more about the criteria to be met by such legislation, namely the necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. That is also what the Council of State stated in its opinion. So a restriction on the right... Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u139	I was just waiting to see if your answer to Mrs. Strik was ready. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Nooren. But I understand that your answer to Mrs. Strik is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u140	That's not quite ready. I would like to say a little more about this when a restriction on the right to inviolability of the body is justified. It must meet criteria, and it must serve a legitimate purpose in the first place. I think we all agree that the goal is legitimate. After all, the proposal for a comprehensive registration system, which fully exploits the willingness to donate organs in society, is a means of increasing the availability of organs and can save lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u141	For the sake of clarity, do I hear the initiator say that at the moment when people have no objection, she considers this to be tacit consent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u143	Does the initiator realize that we don't actually know that? All we know is that people didn't object. Has no objection been expressed for you equal to tacit consent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u144	Yeah, especially since the backbone of this bill is that everyone knows what the consequence of not registering is. That means that we do indeed have to focus all efforts on 100% you can never guarantee that as many people as possible will be included in this. If the consequences are known and you do not yet object, it is indeed a form of tacit consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u145	Then can I make it a little more practical? You say: it is important to be able to say that people have all made a deliberate choice not to record their choice. Can you then add the consequence that it is only when we are sure, or almost certain, that everyone in the Netherlands, of those 7.6 million people who have not so far committed their will, has made an informed choice? And that, of course, immediately becomes the question: how do you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u146	Of course, you can never say that of 7.6 million people, of each individual, you know exactly what the consideration is. What you can arrange is that people know the consequences of not registering. So we have to make every effort to do so. I think that's very important. I have also paid attention to the transparency that is much greater in this legislative proposal than in the current law. That's where we're gonna have to do everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u147	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u148	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly agree with the initiativer that we must do everything we can to ensure that people register as potential donors. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. But for us, the group we don't know about is important. My group thinks it goes far when you say that this is tacit consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u149	About the point that we have to do everything we can to inform people properly. That is certainly the case; so far everything has been done to get as many donors as possible. But there is still a lot to do, a lot to do. A lot of people don't know about it either. The government says that it is about everything, because of course it is also about the non-skills and the non-literate and non-literate people, that they have no experience of doing so. So at the moment we cannot guarantee that we can do so. How does the initiator view this? What guarantees does she have that it will work? All 7 million are perhaps a bit much to ask, but still a very large and substantial part of those people are: how is that going? There's no experience yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u150	The minister of the present minister always said: guarantee you give on vacuum cleaners. Of course, it is not possible to guarantee that 100%. That's out of the question. You can't do that in any way. But you can at some point check whether the knowledge in certain groups, which we now expect will be difficult to land, does land well and people understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u151	But how are you gonna check that out? Because that will be crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u152	That is a question of implementation. The Minister will have to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u153	So it's not known yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u154	It's not known yet, no. Then there will have to be an evaluation first. In the evaluation and the studies that are taking place, you will have to see which criteria to meet and whether they will be met. I shall come back to that later in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u155	Mrs Dijkstra was responsible for Article 11 of the Constitution and for the inviolability of the body. I have a question for the Minister later, but since you are now pointing this out, I would like to ask you the same question. The fundamental right to inviolability of the body is a right of defence. That's just been mentioned. The government has to stay out there. How can it be that, if people do nothing and are then also unknown with what motive they are under the heading "no objection', so they actually do nothing at all if they have actually lost that right of defence? The government does come into people's privacy. Would you mind going into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u156	It is perhaps appropriate to repeat once again that when the current law on organ donation was established, even though it has been stated that an opt-out system, as proposed in the ADR system, could fit within that legislation. There was a lot of discussion back then about whether to do that. We shall not go into that now. However, I think it is important to point out here that the regulation on which it is concerned and which makes it meet the criteria also set by the Council of State, not only is there an interest for those who are currently on the waiting list for a donor body, but it is of general interest, or even for each individual of their own interest. I told you in my introduction that at some point in his life, everyone could be dealing with organ failure. Experience shows that people like to be eligible for a new organ. So the importance of making donor bodies available and the role of Article 11 of the Constitution in it is that it is a general interest. And the necessity becomes clear as well. I hope that I have answered your question sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u157	I understand, of course, from Mrs Dijkstra that she is going to consider this in the light of the general interest. I also know that when you say Article 11, Article 22 is also mentioned. But I'm interested in the nature of that fundamental right. As citizens of this country, we are in possession of it and we do not have to do anything to make full use of it. But now it's true that if you don't do anything, so don't respond to the letters, you get to "no objection." We don't know if that's a conscious or unconscious action of people. But then they've lost that right of defence. I would just like to know, I hope that the Minister will take that up too, whether that is actually possible, or whether it is legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u158	I gave my answer. It is up to the Minister to discuss this further. Mr Kuiper also mentioned Rule 22. The importance of making more donor bodies available is, of course, also protected by the Constitution, which imposes an obligation on the public authorities to take measures to promote public health. That does not mean, however, that legal rules, which may lead to an infringement of the right to inviolability of the body, must be appropriate, and I say this once again to achieve the objective, and must not go beyond what is necessary for that purpose. My view is therefore that if the current law is amended with the present legislative proposal, these criteria will still be met and actually better, because in the current law, the next of kin take a bigger place. That too can be well justified by the importance of making more donor bodies available, but it is not self-determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u159	I can't help it. I have just quoted Minister Borst in my speech, and I certainly do not want to beat you up with her words, but the great difference between her input then and yours now is enormous, as far as I am concerned. She just recognized the piece of state-free atmosphere, so there is a piece of personal freedom, a personal responsibility, where the government does not act, especially when it comes to something as personal as the donation of your organs. That must be a choice of its own. It is precisely for this reason that I am not saying that, but that is a quote, she had fundamental objections to the Active Donor Registration. I miss the fact that, even when it comes to classical fundamental rights, which is typical of the liberal movements, we really need to conserve that part of the state-free atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u160	I listened to this with interest, of course, and I also know how Mrs Borst, the Minister at the time, spoke about it. That is, of course, included in the Acts. I spent the last few years of her life, almost twenty years later, but she passed away a few years ago, talking a lot, also about this change of law. It indicated that during this long period of time, it did not achieve the result that was wanted and that it supported the option of amending the law now. That's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u161	I'll take note of that. Of course, you know Mrs Borst much better than I do, so that's not the point. In any case, I would like to point out that what was said at the time, including by the government, is that, frankly, I am now missing those notions in your reply. Anyway, you're going further, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u162	I'll go further and I'll come back to this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u163	I think we're Chamberwide sharing the goal, the importance of recruiting potential donors. However, I would like to challenge the initiator to speak with care about people who infringe Article 11 of the Constitution. And that it really matters if there are people who haven't raised any objections. Assuming that it is then suddenly tacit consent, goes too far. Because that gives a different impression in the infringement of Article 11 than that you find that people have not raised their objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u164	I'm just trying to taste what you mean by that, Mrs. Nooren. You say you can't consider it an active registration. Of course, that is not the case, because people do not register. But precisely because people are aware of the consequences of non-registration, you may consider that "no objection" as an expression of: I have no objection to being registered as an organ donor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u165	Even in your own initiative law, you are careful in your language and write: no objection. You don't write: silent consent. I appreciate that very much, because that indicates what it is: there is no objection and there is no tacit consent. In that is the assumption that people are well informed. But we don't know that. We don't know what's going on in that situation. In this light, we are trying to make a balance of interests between ourselves. Have we acted carefully? Is the briefing in order? What are the next of kin allowed to do? My group thinks that it is very far-reaching to say that this is tacit consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u166	I understand that and I am not entirely justified in saying that there is tacit consent. I'm not just saying that. What we do, of course, arrange in this bill is that there is either an active yes registered or that there is no objection. And, of course, there is always the role, and we will come back to that in detail, of the next of kin, if they make it plausible that there has been no knowledge of the meaning of those consequences, if they can explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u167	Can I just ask you a few more questions about Article 11? The Council of State has said, and so it is: you may infringe Article 11 if it meets the criteria of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. That's what the initiator said. But then there was a middle line. The initiator explained the necessity. I haven't actually heard any misunderstandings about that in this Chamber. But the conclusion seemed to be that there would be no problem with that either. I think it would be a very quick conclusion that this would not infringe Article 11, because that is precisely what calls for all these criteria to be met. Only with regard to the first, necessity, is no misunderstanding. It is up to us to further determine whether all these other criteria are sufficiently met. So the conclusion that it automatically satisfies that, sounded very fast to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u168	If I have given that impression to Mrs Martens, that is not correct. I'm not ready yet. I haven't run out of criteria yet. I have indeed spoken about the necessity. I was working on proportionality right now. So I'll get to that. Perhaps you'd like to wait and see. I have said that the role of the next of kin is also regulated in the current law. The next of kin have a greater role in the current law. This can also be justified by the importance of making more donor bodies available, but it is not self-determination. It has often been said that out of 60% of people there is no choice of their own. An important tool to achieve self-determination is the final registration system proposed in this legislative proposal. Opponents of the ADR system see the additional effort that citizens are being asked to make known that they do not want to be a donor, and the consequence of the absence of that effort, a limitation of the possibility of self-determination. Mr De Grave mentioned for a moment how he lives within his group. But a comparison of the ADR system with the current authorisation system shows that in the current system the intended self-determination takes shape mainly by not deciding for itself, but by knowingly or unconsciously leaving the decision to others, to the next of kin. For that high percentage of the population not registered in the donor register, the idea of self-determination is essentially not realised. The ADR system, on the other hand, gives each resident several times the opportunity to make a choice about one's own body after death, and to record it for themselves. In addition, the previously made choice can always be changed. The present bill is intended to encourage people to make a choice about organ donation in life. That is why we believe it is important to have a comprehensive registration system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u169	Can I ask whether this would not be possible under the current law to encourage registration? In my view, this can also be done within the current law. So I don't really understand why this couldn't be done under the current law. Why would you really need this law for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u170	Many attempts have been made, for example in the Master Plan Organ Donation and the measures taken in it. We have annual National Donor Weeks. Efforts have been made to encourage people to register as organ donors, but this has not resulted in more people registering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u171	Finally, Mrs Martens, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u172	So it's not about pushing more, it's about changing the rules? Then Mrs Dijkstra says: the choice is in the current law for the next of kin and with the new law it becomes the government that is going to choose, because it then registers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u173	I've exchanged that with Mrs. Martens before. It is your own choice that is recorded. Of course, encouraging registration is right to arrange that if you do not want a "no objection' to appear, you can register a "no'. Or just if you do want to register "yes" very actively. That incentive is in this bill. Mr. Chairman. Subsidiarity. In this respect, it is important that other measures have also been taken to achieve the same objective. Mrs. Martens just said that. In general, I can say that the current authorisation system over the last 20 years has not been able to reduce the large shortage of organ donors, despite all efforts. I have already said something about the possibilities within the current system, but I am going to talk about this in detail. In the case of subsidiarity, it is also important that sufficient provision is made to prevent an excessive breach of a fundamental right. Provisions for this are included in the legislative proposal. I refer, for example, to the provisions relating to the campaign prior to the introduction of the law, which should draw people's attention to the consequences of the law and, in particular, to the failure to respond to the various registrations, to the reminder that municipalities will provide, to the role that relatives can play, and to the duty of doctors to determine whether the potential donor was willing. The legislative proposal therefore opts for a careful variant of a non-objection system, whereby people are asked several times to make their choice and in which they are informed of the consequences of not responding. So no objection is simply assumed. Moreover, I would like to say once again to Mrs Nooren: everyone's choice can easily be changed at any time. The next of kin will also continue to play an important role. If they're aware... I'm repeating myself. If they know someone didn't want to be a donor, they can discuss this with the doctor and there will be no donation. To all these safeguards which make it possible to prevent an infringement of the right to self-determination, I will come back to you individually and comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u174	So I understand that you say that the current law does not work well enough. That's been established. There should be more potential donors. We all agree on that here. But actually you say that you have the chance to enter the registry with "no objection," like some kind of stick used behind the door to make sure people register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u175	It's an encouragement, an incentive to register yourself actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u176	Mrs Martens asked you whether you could also do that in the current system. There's a reason we're talking about changing the law here. At the heart of that change of law is the fundamental change for people who haven't registered, not for the people who do register, and the consequences of not registering. The fundamental change we are talking about today is: if you don't register, it's assumed, I'm just saying in my terms, you didn't raise any objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u177	It is perhaps good to point out that this distinction has actually been explicitly requested in the House of Representatives. That is what the Minister asked for at the time. At first, the bill said that there would be a "yes" if you didn't respond. This would, of course, have had far-reaching consequences for the way in which the next of kin can deal with it. But when I say it's an incentive to register, I mean it's an incentive to let you know if you don't want to. So it's not just about yes, it's about no. Precisely a closing registration is incredibly important in the whole process in which organ donation can take place. Both Mrs Martens and Mrs Nooren are asking whether you cannot do that in the current system. No, that didn't work. It has not been possible in those 20 years that we have managed that system with policies and accompanying measures. I do not think that we should make the mistake again by coming up with accompanying policies without implementing the proposed legislative amendment. That amendment was already discussed in 2005, or in fact already in the Master Plan Organ Donation, which was made in 2007, and a solution was found. The whole field was involved. The KNMG was also involved, all the field parties were involved and they all said that we should not only take measures, but also change the law. If we now assume that we are only going to take measures, we will stick a bit in the same groove.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u178	Maybe I didn't put it right, but that's not what I'm trying to do. In the system advocated by Mrs Dijkstra, I try to find out what the situation is and what the need for this bill is. That's the fact that we can't get enough potential donors. As a result, I believe that the bill is a stick behind the door. Mrs. Dijkstra just confirmed that. The stick behind the door is that if you don't pronounce yourself, this will be interpreted as no objection and that in that sense you are a potential donor. That is the biggest difference with the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u179	That is an important difference, but another important difference is that people make their own choices. That's different from the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u180	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u181	I believe that people in the current system themselves make a choice in the same four categories. That's the current form of Active Donor Registration. I am particularly concerned about the people who will not make their own choices in the new situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u182	The applicant says that it is about encouraging people to register, whether it is a positive or a negative registration. Within the current system, after the law was passed in the Lower House, there were 200,000 people who registered "no" in that short period of time. If I understand Mrs Dijkstra's words correctly, she sees this as a success, but it is not the purpose for which she has presented this proposal. Within the current system, it is therefore also possible to encourage people. It seems a bit cynical, but after the law was passed in the Lower House, 200,000 people said, "I'm not going to do that," and they actively registered. We can't possibly see that as a success and it happened within the current system, not under the new law. There are therefore ways of allowing people to register actively, either "yes" or "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u183	Yeah, adopting a bill in the Lower House apparently works. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This was a response to the bill. Mr Koffeman may say that we are not in favour of this, but I can imagine that many more people are going to register with 'no'. That is not something we say we do not want. We think it is very important that we register. When it comes to 200,000 people out of a total of 9 million people we don't know about, that's very little. I can imagine that the number will increase if the legislative change continues. That will, of course, also be a reaction, perhaps even before the law is introduced, because we have not yet been able to conduct an extensive public campaign. I am not in a position to do that as the initiator. That's up to the cabinet, should the law be passed. Then it is of the utmost importance that everyone understands what the legislative change is about. And then we also come to those points that have already been raised, namely that you give very good, clear, clear information, also about what happens in organ donation, what it means to be an organ donor and what it means for the family. That is, of course, what we are striving for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u184	But the principle of subsidiarity in Article 11 of the Constitution means that you can achieve something that you cannot achieve in any other way. We see that a huge boom has come from people who say no, but not a huge boom from people who say yes. In the context of the subsidiarity review, you can say that the legislative proposal, after it has been adopted in the House of Representatives, has proved that it does not meet that criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u185	That is a far too quick conclusion for me. As I said, there has not yet been a public campaign on what it means. There are a lot of stories going around that indicate that people do not yet fully understand what the change in law is about. Moreover, more yes registrations have also been added after the law has been passed, compared to the year before. If that is the case with the people who have registered 'no', I think this can also very well apply to a group of people who think: the law has been passed in the Lower House, I do not have to do anything anymore, because in the register there will be 'no objection'. You can't say anything about that right now. No law has yet been passed, no campaign has been conducted, no information has yet been shared, no registration has yet been made. So it's way too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u186	Finally, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u187	Yes, chairman, finally. It is still difficult to test subsidiarity when you take the time to test the legal treatment. It's still very difficult. For example, the Council of State says that it may be a limited infringement if there is legislation, but that is a chicken or egg situation. You're gonna make a law and then you could deviate from that breach. But that chicken or egg situation also goes for subsidiarity. If you can measure it only after the law has been passed, it can't be a basis for us to adopt the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u188	I think it goes for a lot of laws that if you adopt them, you don't know exactly what their consequences are yet. This is certainly true in such an area where, of course, the question of how the individual is going to respond to it is very important. But there is a reason why we have included an evaluation period so that you can look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u189	Mrs Martens, after this interruption, I would like to give Mrs Dijkstra the opportunity to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u190	Yes, very good, Mr. Chairman. I'm still puzzled about what's possible and what's not possible under current legislation. On the one hand, I hear the initiator say that we have not yet started the campaign, that it is still coming and that everything needs to be done in terms of awareness-raising. On the other hand, she says that everything has already been done, and that this is necessary to make people aware. That sounds a little contradictory. In my contribution, I mentioned the municipalities that have not yet been active, the general practitioners who are not yet active, the information, the teams that you can use in hospitals that have not yet gotten off the ground as much as we would like, the libraries, a campaign: for all these things I do not understand why they are not able to do so within the current system. It's obvious they're not done. That's exactly the problem. But why they couldn't be within the current law, that's completely unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u191	I understand Mrs Martens' question very well. I didn't say they couldn't be within the current law, by the way. Of course you can. We could try anything, but I'm also looking back at ten years of master plan. Mrs. Martens says the teams in the hospitals aren't in order yet. I would like to point out to her that the Netherlands is an example for many other countries in terms of accompanying measures. We actually do exactly the opposite of what happens in other countries. There the system was first changed and then looked at how to strengthen it. I'm sure one can't do without the other. It has been said a number of times today: it's no use just changing the system. No, I couldn't agree more. But of course we have measures that need to go ahead and which we need to extend. As I have just said to Mrs Martens, I am convinced, on the basis of the experience with that master plan that has been recommended from all over the field, that this alone has not been enough. Mr President, if I may, I shall continue my speech. Mrs Martens and Mr Ten Hoeve drew a comparison between the present bill and the Medical Treatment Agreement Act (WGBO). I think there are some relevant differences. First of all, there are only two parties involved in the WGBO: the patient and the doctor. And it's in that law to safeguard the patient's interests. The present legislative proposal also addresses a general interest: the importance that sufficient donor bodies become available to those who need them. Furthermore, the difference is that the present proposal concerns a patient who has died. The question is what can be done with the remains. The WGBO is about a living patient and the question what a doctor can do to make him better. I consider these differences to be so great that different legal systems can be justified when it comes to whether the criteria which an infringement of a fundamental right must fulfil are met. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Strik, as well as Mrs Bredenoord, specifically informed about the relationship between Article 11 and 22 of the Constitution; I have been talking about it for a very short time. In general, there is no hierarchy of fundamental rights. The public authorities' role in promoting public health as set out in Article 22 of the Constitution should also be taken into account. The fact that there are differences in legal enforceability does not alter that. For example, in one of the expert meetings, Mr Buijsen said that it was wrong to regard fundamental social rights as second-class fundamental rights because of the lack of judicial enforceability. He explained that violation of any fundamental right, whether classical, economic, social or cultural, would undermine human dignity. He referred to Article 12 of the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, to which the Netherlands is a party. While citizens cannot derive subjective rights from that article, the Netherlands is obliged to provide access to necessary health care facilities. What counts as necessary health care is for the contracting parties to decide; Mrs Nooren also mentioned this in her contribution. In the Netherlands, all collectively funded care is considered necessary. Transplanting care is collectively funded and therefore necessary. On the possible clash between the social right of access to health care and the right of freedom to inviolability of the human body, Mr Buijsen concluded that the State could comply with the former without prejudice to the latter by introducing the ADR system. Mr. Chairman. Mr Don asked how the bill relates to freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u192	Mrs. Strik, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u193	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your explanation and explanation. You are leaning very heavily on Mr Buijsen. You may know that there are other opinions about the relationship between these two. I would like to remind you of what I said in my first term, regardless of the enforceability. In the way in which you meet the basic social right, the duty of care of the government, there is of course much more room, while the other one has a much more absolute character and is more one-dimensional, namely: government, remember to interfere. So you have not entirely convinced me of your vision of this, regardless of the fact that, of course, I also consider social fundamental rights to be high and important. Apart from that, there's a difference in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u194	I think there is indeed a legal debate on this. What I want to say in particular is that the fundamental social rights and Article 22, which regulates the right to health and access to good and necessary health care, are very important, also in relation to Article 11, and that legal enforceability is indeed different. That's what I reported. Mr Don asked how the bill relates to freedom of religion. I see no conflict at all, no struggle, because it remains open to everyone to follow their religious rules and practices. If they imply that he is not allowed to donate organs and he wants to make sure, then it is important that someone records that he does not want to. Then he'll have to register that objection. I do not think that this puts people in an impossible position, because registration is also relatively simple. Mr. Chairman. I will come to another point. Mr Van Kesteren, Mrs Martens, Mr Don and Mr Ten Hoeve informed on European legislation and on Article 8 in particular. Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) and Article 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union lays down the right to inviolability of the body. Although this right is also protected, the European Union explicitly leaves to the Member States the choice of donor system for consent or no objection. A no-objection system is not considered to be contrary to the right to inviolability of the body. As I said earlier, this conclusion was also reached when drafting the current Law on organ donation, the WOD. The government then examined how the WOD relates to the European treaties and concluded that the European authorities prefer a system in which people are asked to express their objections. I quote from the explanatory statement of the current law: "International organisations, such as the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, generally prefer the objection system. In practice, the various countries give a nuanced picture. Data on health legislation from nineteen countries in the European region of the World Health Organisation show that three have the consent system, fourteen have the objection system and two have a mixed system." At present too, the vast majority of European countries have no objection. The countries that do best and have most post-mortem donors per million inhabitants all have a no objection system. I will come back to this when I will discuss the expected effectiveness of the proposal. The ECHR is more detailed in the Biomedicine Convention for topics relating to biomedicine. This Convention includes an additional protocol relating to organ donation. Article 17 of this Additional Protocol states that organs may only be removed if consent or authorization required by law has been obtained. This Article therefore leaves open the possibility of introducing legislation which presupposes authorisation. However, it has been discussed in Europe which requirements such a non-objection system should meet. This is explained in more detail in a Council of Europe document. It states that countries with a legal system where people are supposed to be willing to become organ donors unless they have registered their refusal must provide an effective means for people to pass on their decision. A national register is seen as such an effective means. The present bill meets this requirement: The Netherlands has a register. And this proposal, too, maintains that. On top of that, everyone is written twice asking for a choice to be recorded, explaining the consequences of non-response. Well, I won't completely repeat what we're all doing to inform people of the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u195	Does the initiator agree with me that if the ADR is adopted, the Netherlands will be the only country to register the supposed opinion? Many countries have an opt-out. I do not know the exact figures, but I do know that no country registers those who have not registered as having no objection. That's a supposed opinion, and then the next of kin always have a role to play. That is why this proposal differs from what exists in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u196	When we look at the system in Wales, of course, we see a similar system. Where it's important, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u197	In Wales, the next of kin have a final say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u198	In Wales, as in the Netherlands, the next of kin can also object, as in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u199	But the bill doesn't require the next of kin to be consulted, in Wales. That's a crucial difference. In the proposed legal system, survivors can make it plausible on their own initiative. That is where it departs in principle from the system in Wales.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u200	Mr. Chairman. It is good to emphasise once again that the present legislative proposal seeks to ensure that the donor's wish is met. This also means that the role of the next of kin is one of this: if one can make it plausible that the donor is not registered according to one's own will, one can make it known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u201	But perhaps it is important to have real clarity on this point, because this is an important difference, also for the balancing framework of my group. I feel less at home in the claim that this is so different from other countries. Belgium has a system in which you are a donor, unless you go to City Hall to indicate that you do not want to. That seems to me to be far more far-reaching when it comes to fundamental rights and the Constitution. But this is an important point. Does the proposal for an initiative depart from what has been agreed in Wales? Or does it de facto amount to the same thing, as I indicated myself? Our impression is that in practice that conversation will always take place, even if there is no opinion and there is no record of any objection. Then my image and that of my group, also on the basis of discussions with medical specialists, is that the conversation will eventually take place and that the doctor will follow the view of the next of kin. That seems to be in line with the system in Wales. But then there really has to be an answer to the question whether the proposed system is the same here as in Wales, or else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u202	In reply to Mr De Grave, I can say that it actually amounts to the same thing. Probability of next of kin means that they are talking to the doctor, and that the doctor has been told to me by doctors if there are any objections raised in that conversation, for example the objection you mentioned "my father told me just before his death that he didn't want to be a donor'. Then there will be a conversation with the doctor about the way someone was in life, so that the conversation with the next of kin strengthens that plausibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u203	But you are saying that the system I have proposed in my own initiative is not in fact different in practice from what has been regulated in Wales.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u204	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u205	Just for the sake of clarity, there can of course be two types of objection. One: it wasn't in line with the will of my deceased relative. The other: as a family member, as a next of kin, I myself have great objections, because that harms my grieving process. Can the initiator go into a little more detail as to whether this bill changes the current practice that doctors will always take this seriously and that it does not go through with insurmountable objections?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u206	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u207	Mrs Nooren on the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u208	Yeah, on the same subject. In the explanatory statement, you are quite clear: it is only the situation in which the relatives have the impression that the potential donor's will is not correct, even when it comes to people who have not registered. In any case, we do not have the legal anchoring of the situation where there are serious objections and that sort of thing. So I think the bill goes no further than to make it plausible that something is wrong in the donor registry. I have the impression that there is another situation in Wales.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u209	In response to both of you, we do not alter the possibility for survivors to raise objections in case of no registration. That is exactly the same in both legislative proposals. What is, of course, changing in the present legislative proposal is that it is primarily about the donor's wish. However, we have also stated in the explanatory statement that if there are major emotional concerns with relatives that can lead to a major problem with mourning, the doctor may decide not to allow the donation to take place. It is primarily about the donor's wish and, secondly, if relatives have major problems with it and the doctor finds that people are unable to do so, the donation will not take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u210	Mrs. Noorden one more time and then Mrs. Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u211	It would be a good thing for me if the initiator indicated where it was in the explanatory memorandum and in the articles of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u212	If it's all right with you, I'll look it up in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u213	You can also do it in second term, after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u214	Yeah, well, I'll get back to you on that, or else I'm gonna have to get that really big folder...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u215	My group had also asked a question about this, so I myself raised the statement of reply. The initiator states: "The next of kin, however, as the members of the PvdA group rightly point out, should always be involved in the donation process. If they have information enabling them to suggest that an authorisation or no objection registration does not correspond to the data subject's wishes, that information will be decisive. Apart from that, the doctor will always take into account the feelings of the next of kin. In exceptional situations, where there are serious emotional concerns, it may be chosen not to make a donation. In practice, therefore, the next of kin can still stop donation." I do very much like to hear whether that is the way you see things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u216	Thank you! That saves me a moment to take up the statement of answer. But this is true, and that is exactly what I was trying to say in my reply to Mrs Nooren: this is standing practice. In addition to this, we will come back to the protocols laying down how to deal with relatives, make them plausible and with possible objections. It is very important that these protocols indicate this. It is very difficult to get that into a legal text.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u217	Without challenging you immediately to make a proposal, the following. I know Mrs Bredenoord's text, but the legal text merely states that the relatives of the potential donor should make this plausible. The reply states that there may also be other reasons to depart from that. But there is no legal anchor in the bill, and that is what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u218	Perhaps it is right to point out that the current legislative proposal does not contain any anchor. No change has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u219	Mrs Nooren, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u220	I can imagine that very well, because we currently have an Active Donor Registration in which you state that you are a donor. It is quite understandable that it concerns the 8% of people who have given permission. But my concerns are about those 9 or 7.6 million people that we don't know what they're going to choose. I'm not going to rely on tacit consent. Should the same procedure be used for this purpose? And if you do, does that require a legal anchoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u221	Mr. De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u222	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. We're having a discussion here right now. Both the explanatory statement and the reply and this debate form an integral part of the drafting of the law. What you have said constitutes the legal framework of the system as laid down in the law. Your explanation, including the answer to the VVD Group, is also part of the legal history and so the law must also be interpreted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u223	That's right, of course. In fact, I would also like to refer to the protocols provided for in Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u224	But they are not the subject of discussion here; that is the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u225	I have another question for Mrs Dijkstra. In fact, I hear you say that we are describing a kind of standard for how the performer, the doctors, should deal with the family. On the one hand, I hear the question of whether we should legally anchor that. On the other hand, I hear you say that there is an existing practice with protocols. Couldn't we just pull it up a little bit more by making it some kind of field standard? Once again, the protocols are not under discussion here, as the President said. But shouldn't you make some sort of standard, fed by the protocols and by experience from practice, so that you can come to some kind of consensus on how to deal with the family? Then you go a little further than what is now being pointed out, using the Acts as a framework for something to emerge from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u226	In response to Mr Don, I even wrote down the word 'field standard', even when it comes to protocols. You should use it to create some kind of field norm. The Dutch Association for Intensive Care has also indicated that it is very keen to contribute to this from the ground up, so that it is made clear. I also think that this is the right place, because it is about healthcare practice and about individual conversations with people, where there are very large differences between how people react and how they deal with it. That's not something you can lay down in a law and make check-off lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u227	I would like to make one final point to Mrs Dijkstra. I would like you to put that motion in place so that you can make it objectivable in some way and pull it a little above the parties. I'd love to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u228	The protocols should, as it were, guarantee that the next of kin will play a role, I understand. That is how some members of our group see it. The President was right to say that these protocols are not the subject of discussion. But I still have two questions about those protocols. Those protocols are there now, but this law sets a different default. The protocols can be changed at any time. Does the initiator consider it possible that, on the basis of the new default, the nature and character of these protocols will also change? That's one. Then there is the second point. As the terminology is now, the protocols are more about "a way of dealing with." But if I understood Mrs Nooren correctly, then it is mainly about weighing the contribution of the next of kin. The doctors contact the next of kin, of course, but ultimately it is about the role of the next of kin. Then you're talking about weighing the arguments. What place are they allowed to have? In today's law, they have a place. In the new ADR bill they have no place in themselves, but there has to be a guarantee through the protocols, which, if I understand correctly, are more and more about dealing with things than a trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u229	I think it's both. I think it's very important to indicate why we don't want to lay that down in the law. I've just tried to explain that. This is really part of the healthcare practice. If you are going to lay down in the law all kinds of criteria that such a conversation should meet and you are going to have to deal with people who can make it plausible on the basis of other criteria and grounds, then the assessment is up to the doctor. We see that a lot. It is ultimately about the conversation between the doctor and the patient and about the professionalism of the doctor who conducts that conversation. That's very important. This is also one of the key measures we have taken to ensure that doctors are properly trained to do so. That judgment must be made in the conversation with the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u230	Finally, Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u231	So that means that those protocols remain work in progress. I understand that very well, because the situation is developing. But that also means that they can be adjusted on the basis of a new default. I now understand that a new measure is being introduced, namely that doctors are being trained more. So that hasn't been done yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u232	That was done; that's what I just said. This is one of the key measures in the master plan that have been taken over the past ten years. All doctors working in intensive care and dealing with this subject have been trained to do so. So they're also trained to have this conversation. I think this is exactly the right place for the conversation to take place. I'll report it again. There are protocols so that healthcare professionals can make agreements with each other. How do we shape that? What's important in that? What are the considerations? As has already been pointed out, we think it is important to have some kind of clarity in this. Mrs Martens and Mrs Nooren said that. You can do that very well in those protocols. If proposals are made by the Dutch Association for Intensive Care, that is very good. But it is important that protocols are living documents. In the end, a law or legislation is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u233	I think that's the point. On the one hand, you want legal certainty for people, so that relatives know that their concerns and concerns are taken seriously. On the other hand, you want the protocols to be living instruments that need to be adapted to healthcare practice. I would like to point out here that the protocols are part of this legal history, because Article 23 gives instructions for those protocols. This, of course, gives the legislator the opportunity to give a little more substance to this. It now states that it is necessary to include how information from next of kin is handled. I can imagine that I agree with what Mr Don suggested that the legislator give a little more instruction or interpretation to hospitals, so that concerns and objections are taken into account in such a way that the mourning process cannot stand in the way of them. Then we have not only the legal history, but also some directional instructions from the legislator to the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u234	That's exactly why I'm so hammered on those protocols. It's a very well-known way for care professionals to record things. But in this case, it is also really legal for them to be there. That is not the case in other cases. In doing so, it gives the legislator more room to give them extra attention and direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u235	One more interruption, Mrs. Nooren. Then I'll suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u236	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. What matters is that the bill speaks of "informing next of kin." It does not say that this category should be consulted with survivors. It clearly matters whether you inform people or consult them. Then it should have been said that consultations would take place in those cases. I'll take a look at the protocols. Article 23 talks about how the information should be, because that refers back to Article 20 of your bill. That's not what this is about. This only happens in the case of unskilled, minors and people who are not included in the donor register. There is no provision in the article of the law, nor in the explanatory memorandum, nor in the instruction in Article 23, that it is to say "to enter into consultation with the next of kin."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u237	Then it's about its semantic value. I understand that Mrs Nooren says that, but I look at the healthcare practice, I look at how it is regulated in the current legislation, how the doctors are talking at the moment. None of them indicated that this would be a problem. I think it is very important that we look at that too. The conversation is being held. The way in which the deceased is listed in the register shall be communicated. This is then discussed, because there is a great deal to be discussed with the next of kin around that process at such a time. This also gives the next of kin the opportunity to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u238	Mrs. Nooren, really last.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u239	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. You may disagree about the appreciation of what is important, but the KNMG has really indicated that there was an objection to the article on making it plausible because of the legal consequences and the debate that is then to be held. That's an important industry organization of doctors, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u240	I'd like to come back to that after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u241	Good. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u242	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill 33506, the proposal for a law of member Pia Dijkstra amending the law on organ donation in connection with the inclusion of an active donor registration system. Before I give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra, let me look at the clock. We hope, and perhaps expect, that I will do my best to do so when it comes to the interruptions, that at about 10.15 p.m. we have dealt with the first period on the part of the initiator and the government, so that we can start at 10.15 p.m. at the latest with the second period on the part of the Chamber and of the initiator and the government. In this way, we may be able to end the debate tomorrow, but not too late tomorrow. I would ask you both, Mrs Dijkstra and Minister, to ensure that the two of you can end the answer in two hours' time in the first term. Again, I'm going to do my best to limit the interruptions a little bit. I give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I could ask you, in view of the appeal you have made to me, to ensure that I can follow the order I have indicated in my introduction. Then I am not always distracted by interruptions, but I can deal with the coherence of the issues in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u244	I have already said that I will do my best to keep the interruptions in check, but I cannot fully honour your request when it comes to keeping the order of the subjects. However, we are all going to do our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. I told you what the order would be before dinner break. I can repeat that. I will talk about effectiveness, as is shown by international studies. I'll see if there's any profit to be made within the current system. I would like to talk about the position of the next of kin, the partly incompetents and the lewdness, the non- and low-lettered and the further questions. I'm also trying to get my papers in order, because they're not quite in order right now. I hope I get out of there, too. I come first to effectiveness, as is shown by international investigations. Several people have gone into that and asked for it. Those are very legitimate questions. What is the effectiveness of the proposal? Changing the system is of course not an end in itself. Changing the system must be a means of achieving more organ donations. As far as I am concerned, it is also a means of encouraging people to define their own choice, whatever that choice may be. There are several studies showing that a non-objection system has a positive effect on the number of post-mortem donors. It is often said that organ donation is related to all kinds of factors. That's right. This also means that countries cannot be compared one-on-one, as Mrs Nooren and Mr Kuiper rightly pointed out. The studies that correct these factors also show a positive effect of a non-objection system. In addition, many accompanying measures have already been taken in the Netherlands. I'm here to talk about that in detail. The most comprehensive and recent research compares 48 countries with data over a period of thirteen years. That was published in BMC Medicine. This study concludes that countries with opt-out systems have more post-mortem organ donors than countries with opt-in systems. This study corrected for religion, the number of ic-beds, the gross national product and the number of road victims. There are many living donors in an opt-in system. The same applies to the Netherlands. We are leading the way with our number of living donors, but, as the previous Minister of the United States of America confirmed, we are clearly doing worse in the post-mortem field. The recent study Opt-out systems of organ donation: International evidence review, commissioned by the government in Wales, also concludes that the opt-out systems relate to an increase in willingness to donate and an increase in organ donations. In Wales, at least, this has led to the introduction of a soft opt-out system that is very similar to ours. It was also just a matter of how much Wales looks like our system. It looks a lot like it. There too, next of kin should make it plausible that there would have been an objection. The research The organ donor registration system in European countries also shows that countries with an opt-out system have a higher number of post-mortem transplants. That report also shows that it is important that the accompanying measures are in order. But the report states: "It turns out that a well-designed donation and transplantation chain such as the Netherlands, combined with an opt-out system, is the key to decisive success in many other countries." If we look at the number of post-mortem donors in the Netherlands in 2015, there are only three countries in Europe that are doing worse than we are: Denmark, Germany and Poland. We're in 20. The 12 best-scoring countries all have a no objection system. Spain has been a frontrunner for years and is doing much better than we are. Do they have much greater donor potential there? No. It is due to more strokes or more road accidents it is often said. No, that's not the case. They have similar donor potential, but they are much better at exploiting it. In Spain they have 47 potential donors per million inhabitants, in the Netherlands we have 46 potential donors per million inhabitants. The potential is thus 2% higher in Spain, but in Spain the number of affected donors became 40.2 per million inhabitants and in the Netherlands 15.8 This shows that in the end Spain has much more actual donors per million inhabitants than the Netherlands, while the potential hardly escapes each other. It seems to me that these figures speak for themselves, but I am also looking at you, Mr President. I can mention a number of international studies and studies on the effects and effectiveness of the systems. But we can see that all these systems show that an opt-out system works better. In all four studies, corrected for other factors, a positive effect of supposed consent on the number of organ donations was observed. That therefore means that I believe that the change in the decision-making system may indeed affect the number of organ donors, but that accompanying policy is also very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u246	Mrs. Martens, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u247	Mr President, I am sorry, but I want to have at least noticed that international investigations differ from vision which is most effective. In the BMJ study referred to by Mrs Dijkstra, the footnote is, if we are talking about the same thing, that the study cannot be considered representative. As far as opt-in countries and opt-out countries are concerned, I have an overview here. Some opt-in countries perform better than opt-out countries, but you can't just say that. There are opt-in countries such as Australia, Canada and the United States which are also showing an increase, in particular due to the adjacent measures. Apparently, the visions differ. It is not as black and white and not as convincing as Mrs Dijkstra wants us to believe at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u248	That almost makes it necessary for me to take up the various investigations. In the meantime, it's hard to find them. I just put them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u249	Perhaps you could do that in the second term. Do it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u250	I can also do that in second term, but it might be good to say explicitly that I am not talking about the BMJ report, but about a report by BMC Medicine. I would like to return to that in the second term, as the President suggests. By the way, definitely... Oh, here I have it; I still have it in front of me. It's about the presumed consent, so the supposed consent and its impact on the number of organ donations. The researchers of those studies have applied regression analyses to investigate that effect. Different variables have been used. The 2006 study of Abadie and Gay uses data from 22 Western countries between 1993 and 2002. There, the supposed consent used seven variables: the legislative system, the number of deaths due to heart failure, the number of deaths due to a traffic accident, the gross domestic product, healthcare expenditure, religion, the legal system and the number of blood donors. The researchers conclude that countries with no objection system had 25% to 30% more organ donations than countries with a passive registration system. There is also a study by Gimbel et alii. 28 European countries were examined over the period 1995-1999 to determine the influence of supposed consent. There the supposed consent was associated with 6.14 more organ donors per million inhabitants. Another study, carried out by Healy in 2005, examined 17 OECD countries. There is the conclusion that there were 2.7 more donors per million people in countries with supposed consent, also adjusted for the variables. In the Neto et alii study 34 countries were investigated. There is the conclusion, I would like to summarize very briefly that supposed consent leads to 21% to 26% more donors. That still leads to Mrs Martens. The question has been asked as to whether profits can still be made within the current system. When we talk about effectiveness, it is also important to look at what we have done so far. Are there any alternatives or are they virtually exhausted? My firm conviction, shared by all the field parties, is that there is no real profit within the current system. I'd like to clarify that. Several measures together determine the number of donors within a country. Only the change in the decision-making system, for example when the organisation in the hospitals is not in order, will not have the desired effect. Not only the decision-making system, but also the accompanying measures are decisive, such as good organisation, communication, good information and good training for doctors and nurses. That is why I have always advocated that the various measures should be seen in conjunction with each other. The Master Plan Organ donation argued for a comprehensive set of measures, one of which was ADR. In recent years, efforts have been made to improve the quality of hospitals, to provide positive information to citizens, to focus on life donation and to monitor impacts. I would like to quote Mr Beerkens here. He spoke on behalf of the Coordination Group Organ Donation, in which all field parties are represented and who also supported the Master Plan Organ Donation. I quote: "Accordingly, the CGOD has asked itself the question: have we done enough? Procedures and training in hospitals have been substantially improved, partly thanks to the continued support of VWS. The number of living donors has also increased considerably, although this is not a solution for heart, lung or liver patients. We can continue information campaigns for years to come, with knowledge-raising through billboards, newspapers, on television and in apps and with even more communication on the workplace, but it will not lead to much more registrations or fewer refusals. It will therefore not produce more donors. Everything that is even somewhat realistic has been tried." Mr. Chairman. Despite the extensive measures, the objectives of the master plan and of the government to achieve a structural increase in the number of post-mortem transplants have not been met. The target was 800 postmortem transplants per year. It was at least what we wanted to achieve and that goal was never achieved. It was a lower limit and it hasn't been reached. In the past year, 2017, 705 transplants took place in the Netherlands. With this we did a little better than in 2016, because then 689 transplants of postmortem donors took place. (NL) Mr President, I really need something to say: it can be much better. Our neighbour Belgium has less than 6 million inhabitants and therefore has less potential for donors. Nevertheless, 1,041 post-mortal organ donations took place there last year. In short, 336 more transplants with postmortem donors took place in Belgium than in the Netherlands. No correction has been made for the population. I hope that this Chamber, I say through the President, will keep this in mind when it comes to weighing things up. Mr. Chairman. The biggest problems in the Netherlands are the low level of registration and the high percentage of survivors who say no if no registration has been found. In 2015, a letter was sent to the Minister by the Coordination Group Organ Donation, in which all field parties are represented. I quote from this: "Unfortunately, the registration rate among the Dutch population is still problematic 17 years after the introduction of the current law on organ donation and after 6 years of initiatives from the master plan. The low registration rate among the Dutch population has a major impact on the entire donor chain." Initiatives in other areas cannot solve the negative effects of the low level of registration, the CGOD believes. If no choice has been made, it is left to the survivors under the law on organ donation. For many years now, the majority of survivors, 66%, have not given their consent to organ donation. For years now, it has not been possible to reduce that refusal rate among next of kin. I say this particularly to the honourable Member, Mr Kuiper, who thought that perhaps more could be done. In practice, despite the training that the majority of doctors are now receiving, the percentage of survivors who give permission does not increase. It is a very difficult time for this question to be asked. Of course, we can't change that. Many of the next of kin seem to regret the decision not to give consent afterwards. The current law often leads to it in practice, according to the Dutch Association for Intensive Care, that the choice of whether or not to donate is made by the next of kin, without the patient's express consent, because this question can disrupt the grieving phase. Many families regret it afterwards and sometimes remain with a feeling of guilt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u251	You assume that information is important and necessary, including in the legislative amendment you propose. Efforts in the field of information are good, important and useful. You say that much has already been done under the current system, you mention the training of doctors and say that a lot has already been done in hospitals and in the workplace. However, when it comes to reducing the family's refusal, the conversation with the family will have to take place at a much earlier stage. This is also evident from the research of Jack de Groot from Nijmegen. Mrs Martens has already mentioned this. He says there's a lot that can be done better in the process. That's my point, too. We need information, under any system, but it's about getting closer to the families, so they don't feel caught up by the question, and you can actually reduce the percentage of family refusal. I think that this is something that can already be done very effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u252	So we're already working on that. The research referred to by Mrs Martens was carried out at the Radboud UMC in the period 2008-2012, if I understand correctly. This is a study in which a pastor conducted interviews with relatives of 14 brain-dead patients. Researchers tell me that this is very limited and selective to use as a basis for the statement that there is still much to be done. This study concerns a very small number of patients. Nevertheless, there has been a very detailed discussion with these relatives.... is one of the conclusions that a significant proportion of the people who refused, indicated that their emotional crisis was too great to make a weighted decision at that time, while their loved ones had not discussed it with them in advance. It's still a very difficult moment, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u253	This example you cite illustrates that the conversation must take place much sooner than at that emotional moment around the death? Mr. De Groot has been here too. He's an experienced expert and he's reporting this. There have also been examples of people saying: what have we noticed? That's my experience, too. What have I noticed about an apple being put on me? Has there ever been a SIRE commercial in which people have been called to talk about this within families and families? I think there's still a lot to gain here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u254	Mr. Chairman. That's an assumption. I think it is indeed very important that people speak about this beforehand, and that is exactly what we are trying to achieve with the proposed legislative proposal. We are convinced that it encourages people to indicate what they want, even if they deliberately want to leave it to their next of kin. This is unlike today, because if they don't know anything now, it will be left to their next of kin, it will be discussed and they will register it. That'll be an incentive to have this conversation properly. When talking to the next of kin it is also important to indicate from the practical point of view what the difference is between now and later when not registering. Although many people in conversations indicate that they are for organ donation, they will find it very difficult to give consent to another. Doctors also have the experience that once there is a registration choice, people have discussed with each other much more clearly what their wishes are. It is therefore easier for the next of kin to follow those wishes. In other countries, you see the same thing happening. Family, as it were, does not have to make that difficult decision to make organ donation, because the potential donor has already given that consent. All the family has to do is agree. That is a real difference, which I would like to emphasise once again. In addition, people who register, like now, have, of course, every right to say no. The threshold for donating is lowered because it reduces the burden on the families. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the NIVEL investigation. In the Netherlands, the accompanying policy is well in order. This is also evident in an investigation by the NIVEL. Due to the shortage of donor bodies, the European Union drew up a plan in 2009 entitled Action Plan on Organ Donation and Transplantation. That plan sets out action lines that can help Member States to reduce the shortage of donor bodies. Three years after the adoption of that plan, the NIVEL has identified the extent to which the plan has been implemented in the Member States, the acceding States, the candidate countries and other European countries, a total of 35 countries. That report identifies 10 action points that can contribute to increasing the availability of donor organs, improving the efficiency and accessibility of the transplantation system and ensuring the quality and safety of donation and transplantation programmes. This analysis of the NIVEL shows that the Netherlands has implemented measures for all ten action points. Other European countries can learn from Dutch experience on a number of action points. The report concludes that many countries can still learn from each other, but that some countries, including the Netherlands, have a well-developed system for organ donation, but that there is still a large shortage of donor organs. The report thus endorses my view that every possible means have been used in the various areas and that the Netherlands has a well-developed system thanks to its many efforts. But the problem of the low level of registration remains unresolved. Hence the motivation that, as far as I am concerned, we should move to the ADR, which can ensure that every Dutchman has a choice. Mr. Chairman. The position of next of kin. We have, of course, already discussed this before dinner, but we have not yet dealt with that point exhaustively as far as I am concerned. I think it is very important that I make it very clear what I think about it. The legislative proposal provides for a possibility for survivors to make it plausible, even if the person concerned is registered as a person who has consented to or has no objection to organ donation, that such registration does not correspond to the person concerned's wish. That possibility for survivors is set out in Article 20 (5). The possibility offered to survivors relates to the wish of the potential donor. In the bill, the next of kin is given this legal possibility because they may be aware of an unregistered wish of their neighbor. The starting point of the law is that a person's own wish is followed, whereby the assignment of a position to the next of kin to express objection on behalf of their next of kin can be seen as a refinement of this starting point. Survivors could refer, for example, to a conversation they had with their neighbors about this or to his or her confession of a religion that forbids organ transplantation. Mrs Nooren also gave an example of plausibleness and outlined a situation in which someone had said to his family that he didn't want to think about death, that his relatives had to decide this if he was dead and that he didn't want to record anything, because he didn't trust the government's systems. Although the judgment in this matter is not mine but to the treating doctor, it is clear here that the person in question did not consciously agree to donation and wanted to leave the choice of next of kin. This information will then be decisive for that doctor. This also applies to the example given by Mrs Bredenoord by Mrs De Vries, who states that her husband never opened the mail and could not read it properly. I would like to point out that the concept of "making good" is not unusual in Dutch legislation. The concept is used if evidence would place too much burden on the person concerned and there is no need for formal requirements. There are therefore no precise requirements to make this plausible by the next of kin. It has been deliberately chosen not to lay down criteria in this legislative proposal, and I said that it would have to comply with the information provided by relatives before, because that would not do justice to the different situations that will arise in practice and to the fact that a conversation will usually take place at an emotionally charged time. Eventually the judgment will be left to the doctor and in my opinion it belongs there as well. Mr Don asked for a more detailed definition. The question is whether this is desirable, that more precise definition. Because you really want there to be room for customization. I'll get back to you when I go into the protocols.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u255	I agree with the initiator that it is very important that the doctor conducts the conversation and that the context is at stake. What I have asked for, I am very curious to know whether the initiativer would like to comment on this is whether it does not depend very much on the language skills of someone, the extent to which he looks up to someone in a white coat and the way that conversation is done if there is no formal requirement or examples at all. When I look at what the answers are now and at the answers as they were originally there, I see that it was literally said: a story alone is not good. Then what is and what is not good? The fear of my group is that there will be no arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u256	What Mrs. Nooren is wearing, I understand very well. We cannot rely solely on well-informed and well-informed people who have already been or have been able to be fully informed. Yet you can see that this is difficult in all categories of next of kin. I think it is precisely for this reason that it is also so difficult to lay down criteria which are very important for the doctor, who is now dealing with these next of kin. A little bit is now being looked at as if something is happening and you have to decide something in a few minutes. That usually precedes what is necessary. Actually, in all cases, that's how I understand doctors. There have already been conversations with people whose lover or family member is on the ICU and is being treated there. That means that it has also been left to the doctor to have that conversation, including with people who may take that information a little less easily. That's exactly what they can exchange with the doctor in that conversation. The doctors have a care obligation not only for the patient, but also for the family and the next of kin. So it has already been decided in the duty they have to deal with that well that they are also able to find out with people who may be more difficult to put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u257	I have no doubt that doctors with the best intention are having these talks and that they are doing the best they can, but they are having that conversation with a certain perspective. They want to see if someone can become a potential donor. That's what this conversation is about. If you leave that all to the doctors and you say you can see how that goes, how do we, as legislators, know that's going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u258	We do not ask ourselves that under the current law, how we know that things are going well. When I look at the care practice of the last twenty years, since the Law on Organ Donation came into force, I see that that usually goes well. There will be exceptions and they will remain, because there can always be situations where it is very difficult to really get out of this together. But the practice is that things are going well. The difference with what the change of law is about is not that big at all. Even in my view, it's a refinement of the law that makes it plausible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u259	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u260	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. That is where we differ. We feel that the difference is considerable, because it also concerns the category 'no objection' and it is now about the situation in which someone indicates that they want to be a donor and the family has serious objections to it. You may not be concerned about what it's like now or you may not want to know. I don't know what to base on that's going well right now, other than on positive stories I get from people who've been in the process. But I haven't seen any evidence of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u261	I do indeed think that we should trust our healthcare professionals and that if there are no signs that it has not gone well in the past 20 years, that certainly says something. I would like to point out to Mrs Nooren that we are talking about two different things. It speaks of objections. We're really talking about making it plausible that the known registration of the person who died or who might die is not the person's wish. That's one. When it comes to objecting, it is about the emotional objections or the psychological distress in which relatives may find themselves if the donation continues. That is the other aspect. I really want to separate that from each other. That's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u262	Mrs. Dijkstra, I understand you don't want to shut down the term "engaging." The point is that this concept presupposes a dialogue between the family and the professional, the doctor. By speaking this out, there is already a process agreement in it: we need to talk to each other. For example, there may be several procedural arrangements or processes to be identified in the concept of "making good". It helps, of course, if you can name some of those process steps in the concept of "making decent." We were just talking about that field standard. There could be something in there that makes you know that "making decent" means flat-out: the doctor needs to have a conversation with the family. How that conversation goes, that's not up to me. That's what the doctor is about in relation to the family. It's a professional standard. And yes, we have to trust the professional, we trust the professional. Yes, he's capable, and of course, every conversation will be different, in a different way. So you have the room for that. But with these procedural arrangements, we might be able to do more in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u263	I'd like to get back to that when I get to the protocols. Of course, we also exchanged thoughts with each other before dinner break. I can imagine you're dealing with it that way. It is important to involve the healthcare professional, such as the Dutch Association for Intensive Care. Then indeed you come to a more standard that applies to everyone. Now the board of directors in a hospital is responsible for the protocol surrounding that organ donation. I can imagine that you would say: we are going to give that a little more uniformity. That is what I think you are looking for and what Mrs Nooren is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u264	Another short one. This means that it is organized or organised in a similar way to that held in Groningen in Maastricht.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u265	I could imagine that, yes. I also think it is up to the Minister to comment on that. I could very well imagine that this would make us a little more of a standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u266	Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the next of kin. We will come back to this and have discussed it earlier, but I would like to point out that the role of the survivors in the current law is formally reserved for the non-registered, while it is now falling under the new ADR law. They only have the possibility of making it plausible. That is what the initiator said in the reply that she does not want to draw up any further formal rules. Now I hear her talking about protocols and the trust she has in doctors. I also have faith in doctors and those protocols are there, but they can change, as we said before. And it is not up to the initiator, the minister or the First Chamber to change those protocols, because they are professional protocols as far as I know. Therefore, any commitments in this area have no real status for dealing with this bill. They're great ideas to work out, but they don't have status. One more thing about the conversations, the experience and the training of doctors. There is, of course, a lot of experience in academic hospitals. Mr Abdo spoke about this. It has to do with 70 calls a year or so. In the peripheral hospitals, of course, that is quite different. That experience is very different there. With a trained conversation, things can go naturally well. After all, you can read a lot about communication in healthcare, because communication is a very difficult thing. Someone who isn't trained well doesn't do it by themselves, automatically right away. So I trust the doctors. I trust the intention, but we don't always have a clear view of what it means to the next of kin and the next of kin. We only have Mr Jacques de Groot's PhD research. He has, I think, done the most explicit research on this, and there is still much to be desired.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u267	What is your question, Mrs Martens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u268	No question. I said at the beginning that I wanted to make one last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u269	Mr President, perhaps I could take a moment to respond. Mrs Martens says that we cannot say anything about this at all, so I can make nice promises, but they are not worth anything because we are not talking about this at all. In fact, that's what she's saying, but I think this is really different. Unlike other protocols agreed by healthcare professionals, this is a protocol which is legally regulated to be there. And if it's in the law, we can do something with it. It means that we can say: let's see if we can find a standard that applies to those protocols. That's really a difference from the other protocols in the care. It's got status with that. I thought I'd fill that out anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u270	Mr. De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u271	Mr President, I have said earlier that the issue of 'next' is not the central consideration for the members of my group, but in view of the many interruptions, I have to say that this is the case for a number of Members. I think it will help the debate if Mrs Nooren can indicate exactly what she wants. Is she asking for a commitment or clarification or is she actually saying: yes, if it is as regulated as the law says, is that a bridge too far for us? That'll help in the debate. I mean, is there anything else this Chamber can do or what the initiator can do to respond to the objections that apparently live with her group on this issue? If so, we'll take it a step further. Everyone can make their own decisions, but then you come a step further in the debate. Perhaps through you, Madam President, I could ask Mrs Nooren if she could at least help me or my group by answering the question of whether there is anything concrete that would help her in this struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u272	We'll get a second term, so I'm sure we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u273	I assume I can continue my speech. I would like to hear from Mrs Nooren what her proposal is. I have tried to give some direction to that, but I am sure that will be discussed further here. I had stuck to the concept of "making respectable." This is not unusual in Dutch legislation. It's used when "proofs" are too heavy. There are therefore no precise requirements to make this plausible. The interruption debate just now was actually a little bit about that. Judgement will be left to the physician. I have already told Mr Don that such a field standard should be possible. In that case, tailor-made work must still be possible, because it is of course a matter of the doctor's ability to deal with this differently from one person to another. Mrs Strik asked whether there was a legal guarantee that any "no objection" would be heard in the case of survivors. I believe that this is indeed waterproof. The bill provides in Article 20 that the doctor informs the survivors after the death and after consultation of the donor registry. This gives the next of kin the opportunity to make possible the possibility that what is in the donor register does not correspond to the deceased's wish. Also should...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u274	Mrs. Strik, can you do it with one interruption, do you think? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u275	I hope so; depends on the answer! Mrs Dijkstra also pointed out to Mrs Nooren that there is a difference between plausibility and objection. That's what's going on here. My question was about the concerns of the next of kin themselves, whether they are adequately secured. That gives me the opportunity to ask you now: did you just give an undertaking that further instructions will be given for these protocols to ensure that they are dealt with very seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u276	Yes, as far as I'm in a position to make such a commitment. I think that is more up to the Minister, who will be speaking later, so I hope he will agree with that. But I think it's very important, heard the various spokesmen, that we look together to see if we can standardize something about that. That's Mr. Don's field standard. That is what Mrs Nooren is asking for. If that is a wide-ranging situation in this Chamber, then we must, of course, take a close look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u277	Then I am indeed looking forward to the Minister's reply, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u278	Furthermore, if I may continue, Madam President, this is also about those protocols. Article 23 must therefore also contain that. Mrs Strik asked: how is it guaranteed? This is also guaranteed by the fact that you also set out in protocols how to deal with it. I also think that that is exactly the level at which we should regulate that regulation on this point. Then there doesn't have to be any arbitrariness. It was briefly discussed that the KNMG has problems with making that plausible. I would like to point out that this organisation initially indicated that it should be made clear how next of kin can make it plausible that the registration does not match. They asked for criteria, while I deliberately chose that open standard. But at the expert meeting, the KNMG didn't want any more tightening up but just getting it all out of the law. In the Lower House this law has been dealt with, so that has far-reaching consequences, but in my view we have just found the right balance between tightening it on the one hand and not mentioning it at all on the other. Let me take a look at Mrs Strik and Mrs Nooren as well: with what we were talking about, we are in fact making a further tightening up with each other when it comes to that field standard. I think that's very important. After all, the principle of the law is that the deceased's wish is carried out, but that the next of kin do have that important role in making it plausible and so on. If the registration is found to be "no objection', it will of course be more likely if next of kin say: yes, but there are reasons why that cannot be right. But yes, also in a situation where you want to do justice to such consent that has been obtained silently and also in a "yes" registration we certainly want to do justice; it is of course also very important for a part of the VVD group that there is no arrival there. So we have also maintained in the bill that there is still a possibility for the doctor that it will not make organ donation. Mr. Chairman. I'm also trying to get a quick look at...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u279	I think you've arrived at the position of the low-lettered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u280	I'm gonna try. What I would like to point out when it comes to stopping organ donation or serious concerns on the part of the family: it has been said, of course, also by Mrs Nooren, that this is not defined in the law. At the time of the treatment of the Organ Donation Act, Minister Els Borst, the then Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, said: the doctor also has, as always, a responsibility of his own as a good aid provider. I can therefore imagine that a few times there is a situation in which the reaction of the family to the idea of taking organs out is so intense that the doctor decides, weighing everything up, not to take it out in this exceptional case. But then the Minister also chose not to include it in the legislative text and to record it. There she explained that the nature of such situations, unpredictable and unexpected, does not lend itself to record this in such a law. I have therefore left that unchanged in the proposal. This is explained in more detail on the government website: "In practice, a doctor always has a conversation with the relatives about organ donation." Then comes that story about next of kin being able to deviate from the wishes of the deceased. First of all, the serious reasons are mentioned, and this is explained as follows: "For example, a surviving person may be in severe psychological distress if the donation continues and the doctor concerned assesses whether this is the case." This means that, in accordance with the current law, survivors do not have a right of veto. I say this in reply to Mrs Nooren's question about this, and Mr Ten Hoeve also informed us about this. But that doesn't take away, I'm just saying once again that the doctor will take into account the feelings of next of kin. It's up to the doctor to make this assessment. Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated that the Dutch Association for Intensive Care has announced that it will make it plausible by including next of kin and the obligation for doctors in the protocols. It has also been offered to pay particular attention to this in those protocols, so that there will be greater clarity and uniformity. Mr President, next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u281	Surely it remains a close listen, because what about that image of a veto right? You have explained that, if survivors have insurmountable, emotional, mental problems, even in a situation of a yes registration under the current law, there is no organ withdrawal. I don't know how you put it, but I'm putting that as a veto for next of kin. That situation remains, so there is also a veto in the new law for next of kin. The second example is that next of kin say that there is a record of 'no objection', but we have information or considerations on the basis of which we can make it plausible that this is not the case. Now I don't want to get into words, but my picture is that medical specialists who struggle with it naturally ask something "lighten that again, are you sure, what do you base it on?" But if next of kin then insist, they don't deviate from that. That is why I have also said on behalf of the VVD Group: in practice this will mean that the judgment of the next of kin will be followed. That may not be formally a veto, but in practice it gives a very crucial role to the next of kin. I would therefore ask you to state what you mean by the phrase 'there is no veto for next of kin'. In the two cases I am giving, there may be no veto, but in practice the judgment of the next of kin will be followed, both in the current law and in the proposal as you do, in the light of the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u282	I'd like to continue with that. Thank you for that question, because that also gives me the opportunity to explain it again. "Vetorecht" is, of course, a term that is legally charged. We didn't explicitly include it in the bill. But it is true, and that is why I am committed to leaving that to the contact between the care professional and the next of kin, that such a conversation is very important and can lead to something, especially when next of kin comes as a first reaction: it is impossible for someone to have "no objection," because this and that. But of course the conversation doesn't stop there. There goes the conversation. This can also result in the next of kin, thinking about this and considering how this person, this family member, has always been in this situation, coming to another consideration. So it's not like next of kin to say, "No, you can't, 'cause he never opened the mail, so... Of course, it doesn't stop there. Of course, I do not have to explain that to Mr De Grave, because he knows that. But it is very important that the doctor's duty of care, the medical specialist's duty, also for the next of kin, to have that conversation properly. That can also sometimes lead to people having to take a moment to process this. I would also like to stress that the bad news talk about a loved one is never done with the story: so and so the person is in the donation register. Also, the one who treated the deceased patient is never the one who has to do with the transplant process. It's kept very, very separate. The treating doctor can therefore very much focus on the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u283	That means I am listening very carefully to you, not a formal right of veto. It's a conversation. It may also be that next of kin eventually come to the conclusion: we do not deal with our problems. But the wording of the VVD Group and the framework that we use as a consideration, and ultimately your proposal, is that the doctor will follow the next of kin. That's a question. Perhaps I can get an answer to that, because that is a crucial point. You keep saying no, but I hear it different from Mrs Dijkstra's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u284	Mr De Grave, the order of business is with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u285	Okay, good. But I was asking a question and I would like to hear the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u286	Mr President, if I may give the answer to that, that is so. If next of kin can indicate in that conversation that it is likely that the deceased patient did not want to be an organ donor or register, the doctor will not go against the wishes of the next of kin. That's the practice. In the end, of course, it is about the contact between the doctor and the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u287	I saw Mrs. Martens was a little ahead of Mr. Don. So first Mrs. Martens, then Mr. Don and then Mr. Ten Hoeve. If it's possible with one interruption, I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u288	Can I just explain a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u289	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u290	I understand that you do not want me to go into this further, but it is very important to point out that the medical specialist who talks with the next of kin about what the patient wanted took the oath of Hippocrates. It says that he also has a duty to deal with the next of kin in a good way. But what the medical specialists tell me is that the conversation does have a different starting point. The way in which it is addressed, that starting point, is really very important. And so you don't start with: we don't know, what do you think and want to give permission? But you're saying there's a registration and it's designed and everything. And that the conversation will be made from there. That is a very important distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u291	It is not really about the precise legislative proposal, but about the practice of doctors. There was also the confusion about the word 'protocols'. Because this concerns the doctors' protocols: how do they deal with patients and how do they weigh them? Another protocol just came up. That is the elaboration of articles in this legislative proposal. It remains to be seen that the proposed ADR does not in itself define the role of the survivors. We're gonna be judging the law. What doctors do with that is a second. So far, they always take the next of kin into account, even if the patient's will was different. They'll take the next of kin into account. And the other thing... now I've lost it, Mr. Chairman. I quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u292	Mrs Dijkstra, I would like to put the word 'bridging' in your mouth. We are talking about veto, you mentioned it for a moment; we do not want to go to a veto situation, but of course it is about 'decisive'. The family at some point in its opinion is decisive about the donation question. So that's the word I wanted to give you, not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u294	Following the words of Mr De Grave. That was for my gut about feeling the next of kin. Mrs Dijkstra's reply again shows that it was about the opinion on what the potential donor would have wanted. Is it always about the doctor's conversation with the next of kin about just what the potential donor would have wanted and what the family is like? Or is it specifically about two different things? First of all, what would the potential donor have wanted? And the second, maybe: what's the family like? If the next of kin doesn't say "we think he would have wished otherwise," but "we can't stand it at all; it's driving us crazy if you do" that's something else. Is that what you're talking about? Is that what the doctor might be able to meet, when that is not in the law? Because he only talks about the will of the potential donor. This is, I understand from conversations, something that has always been accepted in the history of law as the role of doctors. But that is a completely different point, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u295	That's right. I have also tried to point out that this is really another point. I quoted the comments made by the late Minister Borst, the then Minister of Health, when the Law on organ donation was drawn up, and also that she felt that you should not include this in the law, precisely because this concerns an assessment between doctor and individual relatives. That is exactly what I have tried to say, so I am glad that you are making that distinction again, should that not be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u296	I'm gonna take a look at the clock. Perhaps it is useful to go to the position of the low-literate and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u297	Mr President, I understand that. I also have the position of willless men and the obligation to be conjured up for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u298	Oh, yeah, but I mean all of them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u299	Then we're gonna try, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the willless, I would first of all like to point out that there is no definitive system at the moment either. That cannot be done until we have a registration of will-successful people. I would like to point out that we may not want to have such a registration either, but that is another discussion. I would first like to address the current situation. Article 9 of the current law provides that persons aged 12 and over may consent to organ donation if they are able to give a reasonable appreciation of their interests. It follows, therefore, implicitly that unqualified persons are excluded from post-mortem transplantation. However, there is no provision in the current law to prevent this from happening. It is also possible to write and fill out a form, or someone else could fill out their form. There is also a chance that next of kin will give their consent when the donation question is asked. So even though someone who is willless should not officially be a donor, whether or not donation takes place in practice depends partly on the conversation with next of kin. The next of kin should inform the doctor that their next of kin was incompetent and unable to understand what donation means. This means that the current legislation will show up from the conversation between doctor and next of kin if someone has been incompetent throughout his or her life. After all, according to the current law, no donation should take place. However, in the present legislative proposal, the doctor is given the obligation to check whether there was willfulness at the time of granting consent or whether there was a record of no objection. If this is not the case, the legal representative, or in the absence of this person the next of kin, will take the decision on organ donation. I say this in reply to Mr Ten Hoeve, who asked what the consequences would be if there was no legal representative. If they cannot be achieved, then the next of kin will go about it. If there is no legal representative and no next of kin, there will be no donation. It is an effort obligation. It is inherent that it has its limits. These limits are determined by the reasonableness and the circumstances of the moment. When someone gets to the ICU, that person is often in a critical state. Because knowledge of the patient's medical records may be of vital importance for the treatment of that patient, information is requested from each patient as soon as possible, via the GP, the institution where the patient is already known and by tracking down the family or legal representative if they are not already present. In addition, the identification of this medical information is particularly relevant in the case of organ donation, as it should be known whether the potential donor has or has not had a disease that makes organ donation impossible. So if the identity or medical history cannot be traced, there will never be organ donation. Also, a doctor will always discuss the intended organ donation. We have discussed this in detail. If the next of kin indicates that their next of kin may not have been able to see the meaning of the donor form sent, then the information of those relatives will be taken into account and there will be no donation. Mr. Chairman. The proposed amendment is based on the attention given by the Council of State to such a final settlement as possible with regard to will-skills. It should also take into account what can be required of doctors in practice and in reasonable terms. This has led to an effort obligation. In my opinion, it is in line with what is already happening in practice and should be done under the current law. It's actually more codifying what's already going on than a really new obligation. It should therefore be borne in mind that the intensivists on whom this obligation is based, in particular, have indicated that they do not have a problem with it, in the sense that their legal certainty would be compromised. I would like to conclude by replying to what Mrs Martens said about this. Mr. Chairman. I can also quote Farid Abdo who explains how possible willlessness is being dealt with at the moment, but I would like to let that depend on what Mrs Martens wants to ask. But I'm not gonna sit on the chairman's chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u300	Good idea. Mrs. Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u301	What I've detected is that there's a difference of vision between doctors. The initiator suggests that it is entirely in line with the Council of State, but the Council of State has said from the proposal relating to the compulsory obligation that it makes the decision-making system "significantly more complex." Literally quote. And doctors disagree. Some people think it's very doable, because... Exactly the practice as you say. But other doctors, as well as the KNMG, say it's impossible. So it's unexecutable. So there's a difference of opinion among doctors about how easy it really is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u302	Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Martens that it is not just a difference of opinion, but that it is really about what such a legal obligation means. It's an effort obligation. No evidence is required. The doctor is asked to inform himself of the will of the person who died. When he registered, but also at the moment when what this patient is about is at all, this is discussed. That's what doctors are already observing. Mrs Martens says that the difference of opinion is, but of course it is about what the intention of this law is. That's what we need to talk about. And there you can see that this confession shouldn't be seen as a testimonial. There's no evidence requested from doctors. It might come in handy after all what Mr. Abdo says on the theme of organ donation of the Dutch Association for Intensive Care. He says, "We have several conversations with the family on a daily basis. We'll call the GP and other medical personnel who can provide information. It's not just about medical information that can be life-saving. Those patients are lying there alive and dead. It is more than that, it is about the treatment wishes." That is, of course, a very important aspect of it. "We even have modules in our digital treatment system with which we register treatment wishes: what was someone's vision of life, what could he do at home at all, what kind of help did he have? How far do we have to go? (...) We have these conversations with several people, with doctors and family. If there is no sign in all these conversations that someone was incompetent, someone is at work and gets a brain hemorrhage and so on, we assume that the will is covered." That's so important now I'm quitting with the quote ""because at the moment the willless aren't eligible for donation." So even now, the doctor has to make sure of that. All we do is actually write it down in the law. But right now, it's all standing practice. If Mrs Martens says that doctors differ on this and that the Council of State says that we are complicating it: it is no different than what is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u303	One, Mrs. Nooren, one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u304	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the applicant what she means by it, but I read in the law that the legal representative decides to replace it. Maybe it's not true, but I understood as follows. People who, for example, have become donors at the age of 12 and become dementia later, are actually incompetent and have a legal representative, or perhaps have been forced into psychiatry, can become donors in the bill before them. That makes perfect sense, but is that legal representative completely free in the assessment of that donorship or are there any guidelines on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u305	It is now included in the bill that persons aged 12 years and over can consent to organ donation if they are able to give a reasonable appreciation of their interests. In principle, we're still talking about the age of the people who weren't able to do it. Parents are allowed to give permission. I think I need to focus more on the question put by Mrs Nooren. Someone registered at the time of will. Let me give you an example of myself when I was 19. So to speak, because then there was only a codicil, but well, then I wrote it down and later I registered. Suppose I get dementia as I get older: then the wish I recorded when I registered still applies. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u306	I said "one," Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u307	I came up with the choice for the legal representative and that we don't exclude the willless in the bill. Mr Van Dijk informed whether the group would not have to be placed outside the legislative proposal, as it is now. I think it is important to mention that the choice has been made to give that legal representative a role. This is based on the idea that this fits in with the role of the legal representative, who is involved in all important decisions and can act on behalf of the willless, including on medical matters, for example when it comes to dealing with or not dealing with them. A legal representative who has been allowed to make all kinds of far-reaching decisions during the life of the willless, before and in the interests of this person, should also be entitled to do so after the death of the willless. In addition, in the current Law on Organ Donation, will not be able to donate, but the interesting thing is that they are not excluded from living donation. There are many limitations to this: it must be a regenerating organ, a liver, for example, it must not have a lasting effect on the health of the living donor, and it must be a blood relative up to the second degree, which is important in the life of this unwilling donor. But that is where the legal representative has a role. It is a bit strange that it can be done, but that it could not be done with postmortem organ donation. I've been approached regularly by parents of a child who is incompetent for life. They said they could give permission for their child with Down's syndrome when he was 11, but when he passed the 12, he couldn't. There is something there, which we have said: let us deal with it this way. Mrs Bredenoord asked about people who later became incompetent. That rather expressed wish is the starting point. Mr President, with your permission, I now come to the non-literate and low-lettered. The big question is how information is adapted to these people. How do we take care of that closing system? Everyone's asked for this. I have always said that giving the system of information is, as far as I am concerned, the backbone of the legislative amendment. If we don't do this right, we really have a problem. We really need to take care of this. The bill provides for adequate information to be provided by the VWS Minister prior to the entry into force of the law. An intensive campaign will be needed to make people aware of what the change means, namely that in the new situation someone must actively do something if he does not want to become an organ donor. During the discussion in the House of Representatives, a number of examples were reviewed of information that could reach as many groups as possible. A good example is Wales. There was a great deal of information in the months preceding the transition to the new system. The emphasis was on explaining the changes. A special brochure has been created. In simple language and with the help of drawings, it explains what organs are, what organ transplantation means, why the system changes and how you can pass on your decision. This is in line with what Mrs Van Leeuwen van Pharos mentioned in the expert meeting: that they often make simple image stories, for example, of what someone does when registering. I also went into conversation with Stichting Lezen & Writing. It emerged from that conversation that the form and accompanying letter received by any non-registered person over 18 years of age could be properly examined, for example by a test panel of language ambassadors. They have themselves been low-lettered and can therefore well assess whether the form and the letter for low-lettered people are sufficiently understandable. They can also give advice on the choice of words and the sentence structure. This contributes to the understanding that as many people as possible will understand a writing and the consequences of non-response. During the conversation with Stichting Lezen & Schrijven, it also emerged that it is important to explain Active Donor Registration not only in writing but also in images and sound. This can be done in many ways, for example via television, but of course we also have all kinds of digital possibilities. And there are many other possibilities, I tell everyone who says that not everyone is digitally skilled and on the Internet. That's why you could also think of movies that you see almost everywhere in the waiting room of the GP or the hospital, or in the waiting room of civilian affairs if you're waiting for your driver's license. That's where you can show it, so anywhere in places where everyone does. That's actually the summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u308	One too, Mrs. Martens. A little one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u309	A very small one. I assume this can be done within the current legal system. To do this in this way and to approach it in itself you do not need the ADR. I remember your contribution a little earlier this afternoon. Then you said that we are going to try, but we have no guarantee and we do not know how to test that they really understand it. The intention supports our group wholeheartedly, but it can also be done within the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u310	Can I just ask you one more question, Mrs. Dijkstra? Do you think you'll need much longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u311	Well, Mr. Chairman, I also have the research on the support base, and the WRR report Knowing is not yet done. So I'm still a little busy, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u312	I'll take a look at the minister, too, because he still has to. I don't know if you brought a briefcase, I'm asking the members. I'm just looking around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u313	I'm trying, but I can tell how important care is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u314	I totally agree with you, but I'm also trying to do it a bit like this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u315	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u316	... that we can end the debate at a reasonably normal time and that we do not go somewhere far into the night. That does not encourage the debate either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u317	I fully understand you, Mr. Chairman, and I'd be happy to cooperate. I've been trying to skip a lot of pieces here and there, because otherwise it's gonna get worse. It is very important that people know where they can go for additional oral explanations; Mrs Martens spoke about this. Mrs. Strik asked for an individual approach. This can be done, for example, by providing general practitioners with information on organ and tissue donation, for example in an intake interview with new patients or when young people become 18 years of age. That's an appropriate time to do it. There is also attention to information for migrants, in response to Mrs Strik's question. I can elaborate on that, but I'm not gonna do it with a look at the chairman. This is already being addressed on the website of the NTS, for example. Then it's about organ donation in different religions. And the donor information is currently available in English, German, Polish, Turkish, Chinese and Arabic. In this context, Mr Don also made the following suggestion, which I think is very good. I have also discussed this with the health insurance companies, i.e. with Zorgverzekerings Nederland, the umbrella organisation. Mr Don said: let them play a role. They were in favour of this. After all, every Dutch person has health insurance. So you get information about that at some point. It is quite possible to indicate: where can you check how you are registered and where can you retrieve the information? It is important that a telephone number is also available to inform people orally. That's taken care of, too. Mrs Baay asked for a 100% closing system. You can never guarantee that. There's no way to make it to 100%. This is, of course, also the case in the current system. In the current system, too, a lot of people don't know exactly what's going on. The new system encourages people to make their own choices. Finally, of course, there is also the possibility of evaluation. The distinction that we have made between 'yes' and 'no objection' allows us to go back to the current situation, should that be the case. Mrs Nooren asked when there was a successful legislative change. In my view, it is important that everyone knows a choice, that people know what the consequences of not responding are and when doctors find that next of kin are better informed about their next of kin's choice. For example, in Wales, where the transition took place on 1 February 2015, there is a clear positive trend in the donation conversations with next of kin. The number of consents increased from 44% in 2015 to 65% in 2017. That's a pretty good increase. And Wales had a lower clearance rate compared to England, Scotland and Northern Ireland. But now, after the introduction of the law, they have the highest rate of agreement. Positive developments can also be reported in other areas. More people discuss their preferences with their families, which makes them more aware of their wishes, and after introduction, the number of professionals who are positive about the system change has also increased further. Such issues could also be included in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u318	Wales has indeed just introduced it and launched a major campaign, but the latest articles I have here describe: "Too soon to assess effects of deemed consent to organ donation in Wales." And the other one is, "Welsh opt-out law fails to increase organ donations." So there's been a change. At first there was a positive line, but it is still far too early to applaud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u319	Maybe it is a good thing to say that I do not like it either, but that I particularly point out that the registration rate, where we have the problem, has gone up. But the donor potential has diminished. That's where he gets the pinch. That is another aspect of this whole legislative amendment. The reduction in donor potential is not yet fully clear. But what are you doing it for? You end up doing it for more registrations. And you see a very clear positive development in the sense that the consent rate for next of kin is higher. Mrs Strik has asked when this law will come into force if it is adopted. The government can best determine, in consultation with the municipalities, when this law can enter into force. The Minister will deal with this in the same way. But, of course, time will have to be taken for a comprehensive information campaign. I'd like to leave it to the Minister to elaborate on that. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna get on the board first. Mr Van Kesteren asked me whether this bill should be continued with the small majority that has been achieved in the Lower House and the current doubts in society. Well, I would like to point out that there are several studies that show support for organ donation. Successive studies show that about two thirds of the population want to become organ donors. There is the Eurobarometer, which indicated in 2010 that 64% of Dutch residents were willing to donate organs after death on request. In 2012, a survey was published by the Central Bureau of Statistics: 55% of Dutch residents said yes to whether they wanted to become organ donors and another 12% answered the same question with "probably." In 2012 there was a study by Maurice de Hond, commissioned by the Foundation 2 Million Signatures: 64% of the Dutch were willing. 2014: OneToday 19.000 respondents, 61% wanted to make organs available after death. Panteia, on behalf of the VWS Ministry: more than 80% of respondents agree that organ donation is generally a good thing and 53% of them apologize, I am not used to speaking so long in succession, and I fully agree with the statement "I myself am willing to donate my organs after my death." And 31% of them are neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u320	That's support for organ donation. But does that also mean support for this system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u321	This is support for the question of whether you want to become an organ donor. And for the system, I can report even more recent investigations. From research experiences of the CBS in 2014: 58% in favour of the new system. OneToday in 2014: 61% in favour of a new donor system. Maurice de Dog: 61% of respondents support transition to the ADR system. Shortly after the adoption of the ADR in the House of Representatives, EenVandaag made another poll: a majority, 52%, of the Dutch still support a new donor law. And the current law can really count on less support by 43%. Recently on 17 January, so still very recently, EenVandaag again researched support for it and 55% came out of it. So you always come up with that majority that still supports this proposal when it comes to acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u322	The percentages mentioned by Mrs Dijkstra are about exactly the same as in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u323	Yeah, I don't know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u324	I would like to say that the support base in our country is about the same as what we have seen in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u325	Well, if we figure that out correctly, there was something else in the House of Representatives. There was a majority of one vote. I have to say that in society the support for another registration system is greater than in the House of Representatives. Of which I hope, let me just say once to all of you, Mr President, that you feel the same here, once we have discussed this proposal exhaustively. Once again, when it comes to these polls, we have to establish that, because that is the importance of these polls, I would also say to Mr Van Kesteren that, knowing that the rate of consent is currently around 24, there is quite a discrepancy with what the sound is when you measure this and what is actually constantly around the same percentage. That consent rate must therefore be able to increase significantly if all people are to be encouraged to make a choice. Knowing isn't doing anything yet, the WRR report. Of course, I have a lot more to say, but I will deal with this in particular. Then I'd like to hear what I left behind. Mrs Baay-Timmerman spoke about this, but other speakers also referred to it. 60% of people say they want to be donors. However, only 24% are registered with "yes." Professor of Psychology De Ridder conducts research into nudging. That is just an incentive to one side, as an alternative intervention to allow people to behave more in accordance with one's own goals. It finds similar to the Scientific Council for Government Policy that people do not always intend to translate into action. It sees this as a motivation to adjust the default setting, the default starting point. I quote: "So far we have made it easy for people who are against automatic registration. They don't have to do anything if they don't want to be a donor. If the new law passes the First Chamber, this will be reversed and we will make it easier for those who want to make their organs available, but forget to take action." She adds, and I quote again: "As long as we ensure that people who do not want to be donors can easily get out of their registration, for example by reminding them regularly that they can unsubscribe, we not only raise the number of organs available, but also take into account the way people make decisions." For this reason, the legislative proposal has also given municipalities the task of regularly reminding people of their registration. If that repeatedly asked question to make a choice and confirmation has escaped someone's attention, for example because someone was under a lot of stress in certain circumstances, the registration can still be changed at any time. So a possible unwanted registration is never final, you can change that again. I also have to say that when I look at what is in the WRR report, namely that people under stress are more difficult to make a decision, I see it as encouraging the ADR proposal. Because the question of whether organs can be used for donation is put to relatives at such an incredibly stressful and emotional moment. This means that we must strive not to make that complicated choice of organ donation to the next of kin, but to ask people themselves at a much earlier stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u326	One, Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u327	That's one element of the WRR report. There's also a chapter in mental abilities, resiliency and policy. Instead, it calls for experiments not in people with acute stress, but in people with slightly intellectual disabilities, mental problems and other situations to be carried out, to be carried out and to be approached individually. Then it is not about the reverse burden of proof, but precisely to regard them as a fully-fledged person. I asked the Minister about this. What you're saying is correct when it comes to reverse action. But in my response to the WRR report, it was also about the other group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u328	The Minister will certainly come back to that. I have, of course, already mentioned a little bit in the block about the information to be given that there should be the possibility to deliver customization and to approach people individually. We need to find a way to do that. I hope the Minister will share this view. I'm gonna check it out. Live donation as an alternative. That was another question from Mrs Martens. She suggested that you see that, where an opt-out system for organ donation is introduced, the number of donations in life is declining. But of course it is a fact that a lot of patients remain on the waiting list and on a post-mortem donor, including kidney patients. The Nederlandse Transplantatie Vereniging wrote about this: "In the end, our living donors absorb the consequences of a failing postmortem donation system." They say more about that. The present bill specifically monitors the increase in the number of post-mortem donors and is therefore unabatedly relevant for kidney patients, but also for patients who are not at all able to call on a living donor, such as heart patients or lung patients. Mrs Martens noted that research would indicate that... Well, what I just said. I won't repeat that. I have looked at it, but no research shows that the number of living donors will decrease as a result of a transition to a new registration system for post-mortem organ donation. The Minister also confirmed this during the debate in the Lower House. I quote the minister, the current minister's predecessor: "Research shows that in opt-in systems, the number of donations is higher in life. I can see that. Does that mean that we suddenly see that number fall in the event of a system change? You don't have to do that. I'm not distracting from anything. I can't see that that happened either." Nor is it expected that this will happen in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u329	Mrs. Martens, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u330	I'm gonna look that up and I'll be happy to give it to the initiator on occasion. The number of living donors and the number of postmortem donations are indeed two different things. But if you can find 30 kidney donors by those kidney teams alone in the month of January, that's substantial. Then it would be extra important if that number were to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u331	For the time being, there is no indication that a change in the system would mean less efforts towards living donation. The Netherlands is at the top. We're doing the best we can in that area. That's what we need, because there are a lot of kidney patients on the waiting list. We cannot therefore reduce these efforts. It is not a logical conclusion at all that this will happen and that the willingness will deteriorate, because the need will continue to be great. Mr. Chairman. A number of other questions have been asked. The brain death protocol has been discussed. This has been raised by Mr Van Kesteren, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Koffeman. The draft law before us does not change this protocol or other procedures for organ donation. The law on organ donation contains in Article 14 that, before an organ is removed, death is determined by a doctor who should not be involved in the removal or implantation of the organ. Death must be determined by appropriate methods and criteria for determining brain death, according to the latest state of science, and by a competent physician. Those methods and criteria shall be laid down by the Health Council, as set out in Article 15. I can elaborate on this, but basically, the professionals are talking about this. We have great confidence in the way that is being done. The Dutch Society for Neurology has informed the Chamber of the criteria for brain death. All brain functions were irreparably destroyed at that time. They find it worrying, and I share that, of course, that the debate is a bit polluted by inaccuracies and personal opinions, one might almost say. I therefore prefer not to discuss this further here. I'm not a doctor. The law doesn't establish this brain death protocol. We have important bodies and advisory bodies there that can do that very well. It is important, however, that the information on this matter is clear. That was said by Mr Ten Hoeve. He asked for that. That is, of course, very important. The website of the NTS, the Dutch Transplantation Foundation, has therefore been modified. There are videos explaining how the brain death protocol works. Doctors accompanying the next of kin also provide information on this, should the donation question be discussed. Let me leave it at this point, Mr President. I hope I haven't left any important questions, but if I don't, I'm sure I'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u332	There's gonna be a second term, so there's gonna be a second time. Thank you, Mrs Dijkstra. I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u333	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Dijkstra on her work on this subject and on the proposal for an initiative. As stipulated in the coalition agreement, the cabinet will give its opinion on this initiative proposal to your Chamber. I am here as an advisor to provide you with factual information on the initiative proposal under discussion today. That's still pretty complicated, to be honest. That's what I say after a day of listening here. When we prepared the cabinet position on this initiative, we thought that we should at least address two points: the issue of costs and revenues and the issue of the two scenarios, namely the law is or is not being adopted. I would like to make a comment on both. After that, I would like to address a number of questions. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of an ADR system generates occasional and structural costs. I'd like to try to give you some insight into that. Everyone should be informed and given the time to think about their registration choice and discuss it with their relatives. Everyone must also realize what it means if you do not register. It is therefore necessary to launch a long-term and intensive campaign to inform everyone about the consequences of the law. Many different and sometimes vulnerable target groups need to be reached. Think of the lowly, the new residents, the visually impaired and the non-Western immigrants. Experience with a campaign of this magnitude is very limited. We will therefore need to use special expertise to properly inform all these target groups. The expected cost of this will be indicatively EUR 20 million. Mr. Chairman. In addition, the bill states that all non-registered persons must be re-registered with the question of whether they want to be organ donors. Again, because 18-year-olds and new residents are already getting a letter. If no reply is received to this letter, a reminder will follow. Responses to these letters must be processed in the donor registry. Finally, everyone will receive a confirmation of their registration, even if people have not responded to the letter of registration and the reminder. Then you'll be registered as someone who doesn't object to organ donation. The expected cost of this registration is between 25 and 35 million euros, depending on how many people respond to the letters. If the ADR is adopted, it will have an impact on the ICT facilities of the CIBG, the VWS component that maintains, for example, the BIG registry and the donor registry. If you haven't registered, it'll be in the donor registry that you're supposed to have no objection to organ donation. ICT adjustments are needed to make the donor register future-proof and to build in the new registration category "no objection'. After all, because of the ADR, all adult residents will now be entered in the register, even if you have not actively registered. Now you're only in the register if you've actively registered. The cost of these ICT adjustments is 5 to 10 million euros once. Finally, there are the annual costs for the new task of municipalities to inform citizens about organ donation when issuing passports or driving licences. It is expected that the annual costs will be indicatively EUR 6 million. The implementation of the system costs between EUR 50 and EUR 65 million on an occasional and indicative basis and between EUR 7 and EUR 8 million on a structural basis per year. No reservation has yet been made for these costs because the bill is still pending in the Upper House. So much for the cost. I would like me to be able to tell the Chamber about yields/results to the same degree of concreteity, but that is very difficult, because the revenue from the ADR cannot be quantified at this stage because we do not yet know the results and cannot yet discuss the results. I also find it very difficult to discuss here what the value of an organ is and what the value of a human life is. It feels a bit like unbalanced that you talk so extensively about the costs, but so little says about the returns. This could give you some kind of appreciation or non-appreciation of the bill, but I would like to say that this is absolutely not the intention. The intention is to be neutral here and try to give facts where it is possible to give facts. That was the one part. The other subject is the follow-up after the vote. There are two possibilities: either the bill is passed or it is rejected. If the ADR is adopted by the First Chamber, the implementation will be at the centre of the next two years. I have just outlined to the Chamber an overview of the various activities that form part of the implementation process. In view of all the activities that need to be developed to properly implement this law and to inform everyone adequately, it is expected that the implementation will take about a period of two, two and a half years. This implementation period is consistent with the period Wales has taken to implement the bill, where the ADR was introduced by the end of 2015. Wales has taken exactly two years and five months. If we pass a little on after this week, if the House were to adopt the initiative proposal, I would see that the entry into force on 1 July 2020 should be possible. Then you're about the same term as Wales. The date of 1 July relates to fixed change times for legislation, as laid down in regulatory instructions. This is a major system change that affects everyone, but especially those who have not yet registered for any reason. That's about $7.5 million right now. With the ADR, everyone over 18 years of age will be registered in the donor register, even if they have not responded to the letter of registration. This means that the deadline for implementation will be to inform residents and make a conscious assessment of the donorship. What if the ADR is rejected by the First Chamber? Active registration in the donor registry will continue to be important. After all, the Master Plan Organ donation, which is already ten years old and which we have been working and working with for ten years, remains important. My policy will then continue to focus on increasing the number of registrations in the donor registry. I would like to continue to focus specifically on this in communication and information provision. I will look at new communication tools to address people more on an individual basis, for example, to become organ donors. In addition to this and in line with Mrs Dijkstra's own-initiative proposal, I am considering the possibility of giving municipalities a legal role in the provision of information on organ donation. That idea has been discussed in this way in the House of Representatives. I will then consult with the VNG and the Dutch Association of Civil Affairs. In addition to increasing the number of registrations, I will continue to work to improve the approach in hospitals, better care for relatives, and invest in innovation to make more organs suitable for transplantation in the future. Those are all elements of the Master Plan Organ Donation. We have expressed these two general issues in the cabinet position. I told them now. I am now trying to answer some of my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u334	Mrs. Martens has an interruption first. I keep asking if it has to be just one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u335	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I am glad to hear that the Minister is going to do more than is currently happening, for example towards municipalities. That is a very important commitment. But I haven't received an answer to the question from Professor Medical Information Systems. I think it is quite fundamental, but Mrs Dijkstra has not yet replied. I will ask that again in the second term. It claimed that the registration of "no objection" by the citizen could be considered as fraud by the government because an expression is registered that someone has not done. I was curious to see what the Minister would say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u336	It was actually my idea to go over the various speakers in turn. If Mrs. Martens is okay with it, I'll take her question with me later. I shall begin with the questions by Mr Van Kesteren of the PVV. It's been almost 12 hours, but I've taken note of the questions. Mr Van Kesteren's first question was: given the voting relationship and the sensitivity, the Minister must stick to the current bill and, if so, why? That's an easy one to start with. This is an initiative legislative proposal by Mrs Dijkstra, which was adopted in the House of Representatives. It is now up to the First Chamber to decide whether this bill should be passed. Mr Van Kesteren's second question is: does the Minister believe that the public is fully informed and should the social debate be less one-sided? If not, why not? The answer could be that full certainty that citizens make a conscious choice about organ donation in all cases is difficult to achieve. This guarantee cannot also be provided with general information under the current system. But permanent attention to the subject, with the pros and cons, is and remains important. Another question from the PVV Group. Does the ADR lead to more transplants? Or better: according to NTS data, the ADR does not lead to more organ transplants. Then why is the government holding on to this bill? Here too, like the first question, I answer that this is an initiative proposal by Mrs Dijkstra, which has been adopted by the House of Representatives and which is now up to this House. The fourth question concerned Article 11 of the Constitution. That is a question that was also addressed in Mr Kuiper's speech from the Christian Union. The question was about clarifying the interpretation of Article 11 of the Constitution. Is it appropriate to have a right of defence that an infringement may take place if someone has not defended himself against that infringement? Can an infringement be committed when it is not clear whether it has been properly informed? I have looked at and thought with the help of real experts about examples of such an infringement in Dutch law. Very recently, the Health and Force Act has been dealt with in this Chamber. This can also force the government to care for those who are demented, for example. Then you could speak of a similar breach. I was also thinking of the example of parents who allow medical treatment for their underage child. But then the parent-child is, while in this debate the discussion was more about government-citizen. Article 11 of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u337	The example you are now setting is a very specific example of health care. You mention the case of someone who is demented. Then there are certain circumstances that make you say: okay, then you make an intruder. This isn't about circumstances. These are ordinary citizens who are normally empowered and able to speak for themselves, but who say nothing and yet lose their rights of defence. I don't think the comparison is entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u338	I can imagine that. Nevertheless, I have tried to find an example where public authorities and citizens can experience that right of infringement in this way. I immediately acknowledge that it may not be apples compared to apples, but I couldn't find a better example. Article 11 of the Constitution contains a classic...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u339	Short, Mr. Kuiper. Omnis comparative claudicat, you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u340	Yeah, I know. Thank you very much for remembering this, Mr President. You are now answering by giving examples, but my question is: what do you think is the main issue? How do you feel about dealing with that right of defence in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u341	Mr President, I was just saying the first sentence. Article 11 of the Constitution contains a classical fundamental right, namely the right to inviolability of the body. It is also referred to as a right of defence, because it must protect against infringement by others. Article 11 of the Constitution allows for infringements, but only if there is a justification and this is laid down by law. Mrs Dijkstra has also argued that the demands of necessity, subsidiarity and proportionality must be met. Whether or not these fundamental requirements are met by this bill, I believe that your Chamber should consider them. It is not appropriate for me to give an opinion on this, because the cabinet is neutral on this point. Of course, it raises the question of whether the bill is effective. That is in response to the question of both the PVV Group and Mr Kuiper of the Christian Union. There was another question from the PVV Group about donor registration, since basic registration does not reach 3% of people: how does the Minister intend to reach all persons over 18? The bill assumes that a citizen can only be registered with a "no objection" if he has not responded to the registration and then not to the reminder. A citizen who is not registered because he is not in the Basic Registration Persons will not be able to be registered in the donor registry. In that case, the decision will lie with the next of kin. If they are not there or are untraceable, then there will be no organ donation. I think I've interpreted the bill so well. Fortunately, Mrs Dijkstra nods yes. I shall continue with Mrs Baay-Timmerman's question of 50PLUS on the effectiveness of the campaign. The question has also been put to Mrs Dijkstra. So far, the campaign has proved insufficient for more registered people. How can it be guaranteed that the campaign will be sufficient? If the ADR is adopted, a long-term and intensive campaign will be conducted to inform everyone about the legislative change. During the implementation period, as many different target groups as possible will be informed in different ways, including in the media. The objective is to create clarity and peace immediately after the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u342	Can the Minister indicate whether the campaign is included in the implementation costs he has just mentioned or whether the campaign will rise to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u343	The campaign is part of the costs I mentioned. Various media, such as newspapers, social media, radio and TV, will be used to inform all Dutch about the outcome of the vote in the Upper House. Answers will be given to the most important questions that live in society. After the law has entered into force, a letter is sent to all adult Dutch who have not yet registered. We will pay extra attention to low-literate people, people with low socio-economic status, unskilled, non-Western immigrants, new residents, the deaf, the blind and the visually impaired. I did not intend to give an exhaustive list here. In order to reach these specific target groups, experts in these areas will be used. Those who are, I have yet to find out, but among others, the specialists in low literacy. Mrs Dijkstra mentioned Pharos as an example, but the Foundation for Reading and Writing can also be helpful here. So we will have to look for experts who are well at home in communication with these different subgroups. Mrs Baay-Timmerman also spoke about communication towards vulnerable groups. A person registered as "no objection" cannot exclude organs. Someone who is a donor can rule out organs. In what way, was Mrs Baay-Timmerman's question, is this difference communicated to vulnerable groups? It is important that if the ADR is adopted, everyone is well aware of this change and the consequences. Therefore, during the implementation period, as many different target groups as possible will be informed in different ways, including the media. Particular attention will be paid to the low-literate, using specific expertise to achieve and inform them well, including what the consequences are if you do not respond to the application. This expertise will be used for all communications, both during the campaign prior to the entry into force of the law and for the letter of registration with the donor form. At the same time as the letters go out, I think the campaign will still have to go through. Then there is a question from Mr Van Dijk from the SGP Group. Former Minister Borst once stated that the relationship between an objection system and more donors that is described as hard as glass is not so hard. Mr Van Dijk has asked for my response. I would like answers as follows. The current cabinet policy is based on the 2008 Master Plan Organ Donation. In accordance with the recommendations of the master plan, the cabinet policy included a coherent, integrated approach to achieving more organ transplants by means of information, improvement of quality in the hospital, for example, think of the specialised nurses as they have been tried in England and with which a pilot is also going on in the Netherlands and measures on organ donation at life. The 2014 evaluation of the master plan shows that this coherent approach has led to an increase in the number of organ transplants. The number of organ transplants increased by 11% during that period. This result has been achieved without the introduction of an ADR. I come to the questions put by Mrs Nooren from the PvdA group. The first question was about donor registration as a moral obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u344	Mrs. Strik, one, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You will tell us what the outcome of the Master Plan Organ donation was. You say that this has led to an increase of 11%. Was that satisfactory for the cabinet, too? The objective was to achieve an increase of 25% in the number of registrations, right? How does the cabinet appreciate that outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u346	This is about 2014, because that evaluation was carried out. From the fact that the Masterplan Organ donation was not stopped then, I conclude that in 2014 it was found that we should continue working on the Masterplan Organ donation. I have already told you that I believe that we should continue to work on the Master Plan for Organ Donation in the coming years. In the coming years, too, we will have to make a great deal of effort in terms of communication and action in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u347	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u348	I said "one."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u349	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's why I'm looking at you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u350	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u351	No? Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u352	Oh, oh, In the direction of Mrs Nooren, if that was a personal question, I would like to say that I am inclined to see donor registration as a moral obligation. That's my personal opinion. It was your question whether I can understand people who do not want to register, and I can. People make all kinds of considerations, driven by, among other things, fear and uncertainty. This is my personal opinion, Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question about the current provision of information. How do you find the current working methods and information on the current donor law? Does the Minister agree with Mrs Dijkstra that the possibilities offered by this law are exhausted? Is the law amendment the only way to increase donor registrations? The current legislation also informs citizens about organ donation through various channels. If there are opportunities to adapt and improve the provision of information, for example through new opportunities in the field of communication, we will, of course, seize them. Independently of the law, intensive information will continue to be important for the number of donor registrations. Again, I refer to the Master Plan Organ donations, which is an existing plan and for which we must also make a commitment in the near future. This applies to general information, but also specifically to information given in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u353	One too, Mrs. Nooren!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u354	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. My question was whether you agree with the initiator that a change in the system is the only way to get more potential donors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u355	I find that a difficult question to answer. I believe that this Chamber should judge the coming of the ADR. I have already indicated that if the ADR is not to be implemented, information and communication must continue. Mrs Nooren's third question concerns costs and cover. Does the Minister consider the costs associated with the introduction of the bill acceptable? Is there cover for those charges? It is the responsibility of the cabinet to outline the costs of the bill. The question of whether the costs for the law are acceptable is a question for you. No reservation has yet been made for these charges because the law has not been passed. If the Chamber agrees to the initiative legislative proposal, I will involve the financial coverage of the costs in the spring decisions on the 2019 budget. Then Mrs Nooren asked a question about the guarantee. How do you ensure that people with less capacity for thinking and doing can deviate from what is included in the donor register? I have already dealt with this in the previous reply. It was asked whether, in line with the recommendations of the WRR report, the introduction of the legislative proposal would require further research into whether a pilot would be needed to better understand effective ways of informing, informing and guiding. My answer would be: for certain target groups, a personal approach can be a good way of working, but to start a pilot at this stage does not fit in with the stage of the legislative proposal. Prior to the launch of the campaign, it will be examined in which ways the information, information and guidance is most effective. However, I am in favour of interim evaluations, both before and after the entry into force of the law, as we are now doing in Wales. Not first a pilot, but mid-term evaluations during the preparation and implementation of the law. Then there is a very specific question from the PvdA Group. Is the Minister prepared to refer the AMvB, drawn up in accordance with Article 33 of the Organ Donation Act, to this Chamber? This concerns the AMvB with the rules on how to implement the provision of information on organ donation. The bill does not prescribe a mandatory procedure, but I am prepared to do so if I so wish. Now I come to the last question I noted from the PvdA Group. How is the government going to meet the diversity of information needs of people thinking about donorship? Diversity in information needs is already present. One citizen wants to know the seam of the stocking and the other citizen needs less information to determine his or her choice. Information is already aimed at providing this diversity. We constantly look at how our information can best be designed. This does not apply specifically to this law, nor does it apply to other laws. Mr. Chairman. I'm joining the CDA Group. Mrs Martens, you made the following point: we have recently been reminded of a risk that has not been mentioned before. A professor of medical information systems stated that the registration of "no objection" could be considered as fraud by the government. As long as it concerns a citizen who is aware of what that registration means, namely that he will be an organ donor after his death, this registration is equal to a "yes'. I do not see that this is fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u356	Mrs. Martens, one for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u357	It is a supposed vision, it is not a real choice. No country does that. The government records a supposed choice. According to the initiator, that choice must be interpreted as tacit consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u358	I understand exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u359	You say: it is not fraud, because it is conscious. However, it is not aware.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u360	We can talk for a while. The president's cool with it. I have formulated the same conditionality. As long as it is a citizen who is aware of what that registration means, this registration is equal to a "yes'. There's a conditionality in my answer. It means that we will have to make a firm commitment to information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u361	Whoa, Mrs. Martens, I said "one," "one"! I'm sure the Minister will tell you what you want to hear. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u362	I already did, Mr. Chairman. There was a second question from the CDA Group. Is the ADR the only option left? I have already answered that question in response to Mrs Nooren's speech. I have now answered Mr Kuiper's question about the interpretation of Article 11. I now come to the questions of the SP Group. Some of these have already been put to Mrs Dijkstra. The first question was: can you undertake to require health insurance companies to inform their insured persons of the consequences of their choice or no choice in the donor register? The bill doesn't deal with this. If the ADR is adopted, I will consider whether this is an opportunity to ensure that all citizens are well informed and remain informed about their registration in the donor register. The second question from the SP Group concerns the convention on organ trafficking. Will the government sign the Convention on organ trafficking in the near future? The ratification of this Convention is the subject of consultations between my Ministry and that of Justice and Security. I will be happy to keep your Chamber informed of developments. The law on organ donation is in any case very clear on this point: illegal organ donation and organ donation against a fee that goes beyond an expense fee are prohibited. The third and final question was about illegal organ donation. What is the Minister's assessment of the extent to which illegal organ donation is used in the Netherlands? It's hard to actually answer that. According to the latest report of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, Corinne Dettmeijer, doctors regularly have to deal with a patient who has travelled abroad for a kidney transplant. However, there is little concrete information on organ trafficking, which makes detection and control difficult. Mr. Chairman. I shall look at Mr Ten Hoeve's speech from the OSF. He asked what given Article 11 we have already discussed, and Article 8 of the ECHR is my total balance between more donors on the one hand and an explicit consent in relation to the ECHR and the Medical Treatment Agreement Law on the other. I have already gone into Article 11 and I do not make a total weighing-down. I'll leave it to your room. I come to the questions of the D66 Group. Mrs Bredenoord asked me if I could describe how the registration procedure will be concrete, when people will be specifically reminded of this and what it will take for people to unsubscribe. I do it in concrete terms, but a little bit on the main lines. Already everyone can register at any time in the Donor Register or change their registration. Following the entry into force of the bill, all residents who have not yet been registered in the Donor Register will be registered with a donor form. You can register your choice with the form as well as with the DigiD, even if you do not want to become an organ donor. If people do not respond to this application, they will receive a reminder letter after six weeks. Only if this reminder is not responded to will the Donor Registry state that someone is not deemed to object to organ donation. The final registration, even if one has not responded and therefore if there is no objection, is confirmed. A registration may be changed at any time by changing the registration with the form or with the DigiD. They also get confirmation of this. The precise implementation of this large-scale registration, the response period given to people and so on will require further implementation arrangements. Mrs Bredenoord's second question was about low-lying people. She asked me to deal specifically with the situation of lower literate people. In fact, I would like to echo Mrs Dijkstra's words. I would have given exactly the same answer. Then the position of the next of kin. In response to a number of you, Mr Don has already discussed this in detail with Mrs Dijkstra. I would like to say that if the ADR is adopted in consultation with the field, it will be necessary to consider how the position of next of kin and doctors can be addressed in the future. In this way, I think it is best to achieve a field standard. Perhaps I am just a little more cautious than Mrs Dijkstra in her reply, because I am not yet using the word 'protocol'. I know the protocol as a hospital protocol. It's part of a hospital. Suppose that is said: we want to discuss that plausibility requirement with the field. I'd like that, too. Maybe that's why we come to a field standard. Perhaps we can involve this issue in an initial assessment of the law, with small steps. A field standard I also find a standard that you discuss with the field and which you do not impose here tonight. I find that much less practical and then you don't get the creativity out of the field either. I hope that has answered the question. Let me now turn to Article 22 of the Constitution. According to Mrs Bredenoord, a second article of the Constitution which needs to be looked at is Article 22: 'The public authorities are taking measures to promote public health'. The government is committed to improving the position of the organ-needed patients and shortening waiting lists. I would like to reply that Article 22 of the Constitution is indeed an obligation on the part of the public authorities. So far, in addition to the Donor Register, the government has implemented various measures. I've mentioned them before. They come from the Master Plan Organ donation: improvement of quality in hospitals, information and measures on organ donation during life. Article 22 of the Treaty of Rome also ends there, I think, does not give entitlement to good health and therefore no right to an organ. Mr. Chairman. A single question from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, then a few questions from the VVD Group, and then I hope that I will pass through the questions. Let's see. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Mrs Strik. The first question was about the differentiated approach to information for different groups: low-literate, intellectually limited and immigrants. Is a differentiated approach to information needed? Honestly, I think I answered this question. Then there is the second question. Does the Minister recognise that individual approach, such as a conversation, is important and which professions can play a role in this? I have been told that this individual approach is already in pilot form in Den Bosch. That goes through the Dutch Transplantation Foundation for the time being. I don't have any results yet. But I follow that closely, because such an individual approach can be fruitful. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the evaluation of plausibility. Are you prepared to examine how the possibility for survivors to challenge the plausibility of a "yes" or a "no objection" will work in practice? Yes, I'd like to make a commitment on that point. I am in favour of interim evaluations, and if the law is passed, I would like to take this issue into account. Let me turn to Article 23 of the own-initiative proposal on sufficient legal certainty for survivors. It's about field standards. I think I've answered that question by now. Question five is whether the donation will be cancelled if there are serious objections. Much has already been discussed in the debate with Mrs Dijkstra. I would like to present her comments here. Then the legal position of the next of kin. I actually think that question has also been answered by now. Finally, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance: negative experiences. Does the Minister recognise the negative experiences of next of kin around the protocol organ names and how does he intend to improve that? How does the Minister intend to prevent these negative experiences from hindering the grieving process of next of kin? I am aware that there are relatives who have experienced the donation process as negative. I have to say that the opposite is also the case. Of course, I am also familiar with positive experiences. I deeply regret these negative experiences. A careful process also requires attention to next of kin and their emotions. I would therefore like to look at the fact that I do not think that the donation process can actually be improved. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have five questions from the VVD group, because I did not take any questions from Mr Koffeman's speech. First of all, the legal function of the municipalities. What is the deadline for the possible implementation of Article 10b of the initiative proposal, the new task for municipalities? The entry into force of the bill provides that the entire law will enter into force at once. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the deadline for the entry into force of this legal task is the same as for the rest of the proposal. I told you: July 2020. Has there been any consultation with the municipalities on the new legal task? Yeah, that consultation was at the official level. There have been some exploratory talks with the VNG and the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs. Have any agreements been made on costs and transfers to the municipalities? Here too: exploratory talks have taken place with the VNG and the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs about both the costs and the performance of this new legal task, but of course no final agreement has yet been reached on the costs pending the treatment here in this Chamber. On the date of entry into force, I have already entered into force. The last question: how is society being prepared for the new law? I believe that this question has also been answered here. Mr President, I hope that I have answered the questions with pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u363	Thank you. I understand that a short suspension will be requested before we begin the second period. Mrs. Nooren?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u364	Mr. Chairman. We welcome the answers given by the initiator and the Minister, and above all the undertaking given by the initiator to go further into the role of the next of kin. Mr De Grave asked me what would be needed for the PvdA Group to make a final assessment of the legislative proposal. I said that we were discussing this. For that I also need consultation with my group. So I ask the initiator whether she is prepared to put the commitments in a letter and whether we can do the second time limit of the debate next week, so that we can get a picture of it, see if it is sufficient and what that means for our assessment of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u365	I would like to support Mrs Nooren's proposal on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u366	But I would like to hear from you exactly, Mrs Nooren, exactly what you are asking for. You said: I want a letter from the initiator with commitments, but which one did you ask and which one should it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u367	It concerns the commitments on the division of roles between doctors, the potential donor and the survivors in two situations: making plausible and serious objections. As a follow-up, I asked: are we talking about protocols, guidelines or field standards and when will they be ready? The Minister also said something about that. That whole domain is going to play a role in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u368	I shall first give the floor to Mr De Grave and then ask Mrs Dijkstra if she is clear, because I see her looking. Mr. De Grave, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u369	There is also support for the idea from the VVD Group, but I think it listens closely to those commitments. The VVD Group is concerned in particular with the fact that Mrs Dijkstra, in the letter, is again telling us exactly how the law should be interpreted. We have made the precise assessment framework, and that has led my group to see that our picture is as I have tried to formulate it, namely that the judgement of the next of kin will ultimately be decisive. I specifically asked for it. I thought I would get the answer to that, but a number of other members of my group had a different view. So that's very important. So please let Mrs Dijkstra write down how the law on this issue should be interpreted. If it's in a letter, we'll know exactly what it is. Then we have a legally clear framework and then, as far as I am concerned, we can also discuss how this relates to the dynamics, which I believe the Minister has made interesting comments about and what can lead to these field standards. Well, at least we'll know as a First Chamber, regardless of other considerations, exactly what that is like. I would like to have a week's suspension for that, so that we can take that into account in the second period and know that for the final judgment. So support the thought. As far as I am concerned, this is Mrs Dijkstra's explanation of what we would need in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u370	Through the chairman! Thank you very much, Mr De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u371	Through the chairman. Can't I make a final statement for six months that everything I'm saying is supposed to have been walked through you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u372	No. Mrs. Bredenoord?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u373	My group supports the proposal and the clarification that Mr De Grave is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u374	My group also agrees with the postponement and would appreciate it if the Minister also gave his views for next week's debate on the protocols in particular, because there seemed to be a difference between what should be understood by protocols and what we can regulate ourselves or what should be regulated by the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u375	The Minister has just given his vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u376	Is there going to be a vision of the initiator who will explain and explain that again? We can do that next week when we discuss that letter. Is there going to be a response from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u377	That's for the minister to say, but he just gave his vision, so it's just in the Acts. In the concept of the Acts, you can find it in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u378	We support the suspension proposal and the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u379	Also support for the suspension proposal and a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u380	A request for clarification must always be supported. I actually agree with the words of the CDA spokesperson. I wouldn't mind at all if the Minister also went into this in a letter in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u381	We could support this in itself. We would also appreciate it if the petitioner included in the letter the discussion on Article 11 of the Constitution. As far as we are concerned, the picture is not yet clear. The Minister replied, but he said that the answer should actually come from the applicant. If that can be taken, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u382	Also support for that letter. I'd rather have one letter with us than 10 million letters on the mat as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u383	Agreed with this arrangement. I think the subject is important enough for the letter. I agree with Mr Kuiper that the applicant should make the balance between the Constitution and the ECHR concrete and the total of what we are doing about infringements of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u384	Support, Chairman. Can the vote also be postponed or postponed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u385	Yes. The point is that I should first like to put forward Mrs Nooren's order proposal for the second deadline next week, 6 February. This also means that the roll-call vote will take place on 13 February. I think it would be wise if all the group chairmen were to look into the minds of their group and see if everyone is present. From 6 February everyone was aware, so all the engagements had been withdrawn before 6 February, so to speak, but now this happens before 13 February. It is therefore useful to know what the state of affairs is. Mrs Dijkstra was also asked to come up with a letter on the problems of the doctor and the next of kin, so to speak. Mr Kuiper, with the support of Mr Ten Hoeve, added the question on Article 11 of the Constitution, but I leave it to the applicant to deal with it. At the same time, the Minister was asked to put his views on the protocol on paper once again. I think it's in the Acts. I see him shaking no; I understand from that that he does not intend to come up with a letter. You get the box with the microphone, so you can say something. It's called a cathedral, but it doesn't matter. Cathedra, ex cathedra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u386	With a box, I'll soon think of beer, Mr. Chairman. I have given my opinion on field standards. It seems to me most convenient that I will respond to Mrs Dijkstra's letter next week. If I had not been clear, nothing would stand in the way of a conversation between me and Mrs Dijkstra, not only to bring it right in, but also to hold a discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u387	Clear. Mrs Dijkstra, would you like to respond to the request from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u388	Of course, Mr. Chairman. If this is the wish of the Chamber, then I will comply with it. When is that letter supposed to be in when we deal with it on February 6th?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u389	Friday morning at the latest before noon, but as much earlier as possible, because that is also desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u390	Very good, yes. I understand, and I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u391	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-6.u392	The second deadline for the examination of this bill will take place next Tuesday, 6 February. I would like to stress once again that the roll-call vote on the legislative proposal will take place on Tuesday 13 February.
