ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the commemoration of the attack in Strasbourg. I would like to welcome the Deputy Prime Minister, who is representing the cabinet in trade union K today. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand up if possible. On 11 December, now a week ago, the Christmas market in the centre of Strasbourg, Capitale de Noël, turned from a fairytale setting into a nightmare. It was eight o'clock in the evening when the suspected perpetrator, despite strong market security, opened fire on random visitors and then stabbed the crowd with a knife. An inhumane act of terrorism which has now claimed eleven wounded and five dead. Among them a Thai tourist, just arrived with his wife, an Italian journalist and a Strasbourg musician of Polish origin, who walked around with the beautiful plan to open a language café that would bring people of different nationalities together. Unfortunately, we don't know that much about the other victims. But clearly it was people who were full of life, full of plans for the future. Until that was ended in a terrible way last Tuesday evening. The now dead shooter was known to the police as criminal and radicalized. According to his father, he was a supporter of the Islamic State, IS. His cowardice took place in Strasbourg, where the European Council sits, Parliament sits and the European Court of Human Rights is also a dagger in the heart of Europe. The attack in Strasbourg also leaves us in the Netherlands with feelings of grief, anger and powerlessness. Sad because of the victims, anger because of another pointless act of terror, where innocents suffer and powerlessness, because precisely in times when peace is celebrated worldwide, we have to hold each other again in deep mourning. It is difficult to regain the strength to find answers to this kind of terror over and over again, but we must. One of the banners held high the day before yesterday during the memorial service at the Place Kléber said "Strasbourg is stronger than hate." And on another Tous unis contre la barbarie. Our only response to splitting terror is to maintain that powerful, peaceful unity, to stand also for peace, for democracy, united in diversity. Our thoughts and our hearts go out to the dead, victims and next of kin. We wish France once again a great deal of strength and strength. I shall now give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. Exactly a week ago, people in Strasbourg probably had the same thoughts as everyone else in Europe, the head at Christmas. Time for lovers, family and friends. Or just for everything else to happen before Christmas. Work that out, gifts that have already been thought of but not yet in the house. All these thoughts came to a rough halt last Tuesday evening when the fire was opened on visitors to the Christmas market in Strasbourg. Bullets of hate, fired around a feast of peace. Five people lost their lives, 11 people were injured. Our thoughts are with them today, with their loved ones, their family and their friends. In a basketball stadium near the Christmas market, 5,000 visitors waited hours for them to leave the stadium. And at half past midnight, they abducted the French national anthem, a song of fraternity and fighting after that act of terror. Let's find confidence in that. Trust that our solidarity will always be stronger than those who want to destroy it. Trust that our intransigence is more powerful than the fear associated with these horrible attacks. And trust that our values will always prevail over bullets fired out of hatred. Madam President. Just before Christmas, celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ, it is good to remember that hatred is learned, but love is born. Let's build our hopes on that. Our thoughts go out to the victims and their next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. Then I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you. I shall now suspend the sitting for a few moments.
