ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 33506, the proposal for a law of member Pia Dijkstra amending the law on organ donation in connection with the inclusion of an active donor registration system. I would like to welcome the initiator, Mrs Dijkstra, and the Minister for Medical Care and Sport to the First Chamber. It is for the Minister his first appearance here in the First Chamber and I wish him much wisdom in the performance of his duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren, who is making his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the floor. Through you, Madam President, I would also like to welcome the initiator of this bill, Mrs Dijkstra, and the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, Mr Bruins. I have been looking forward to this maiden speech for a long time, because this bill for me is one of the most important laws we are dealing with here in the First Chamber. This is not about being for or against organ donation today, but about life and death, about a dilemma that is about a medical-ethical question of life that cannot be answered by everyone with a yes or a no. It is about the ultimate right to self-determination, about whether or not you can control your own body and about how the government, the State, relates to the citizen; about a patronizing government, who chooses you if you cannot or do not choose for yourself, about who should choose whether or not to make one's organs available and about what the core values should be of the constitutionally established inviolability of the body. Mr. Chairman. During one of the expert meetings in the First Chamber, two of the speakers touched me enormously: a despondent young woman, waiting for a donor heart, and a woman who once said she had been professionally involved in organ removal, and who now became a next of kin to her then husband, who became organ donor, realized that her loved one died while taking out his heart. These two women have made it clear to me that something very important is at stake: our body, our organs, our hearts, the pump of our lives, which goes faster with effort and slower with relaxation. Our organs, the most intimate possession of any unique person: is that all government property? No. Our organs, our bodies is the most precious and essential thing a human being possesses. If he or she wants to give that up, that's great. Many agree with that, but on a voluntary basis. We are now on a moving train. Even a delayed train proved unable to stop this change of law in the Lower House. The Active Donor Registration System was adopted in the Lower House with the smallest possible majority, with only one vote. That explains the doubt about this in our country, Mr President. A legislative proposal that makes our democratic right to choose a duty should not be based on such a minimum majority. Hopefully today we can get off this train in time. A lot of people are having second thoughts. People just don't know it yet. Can a 18-year-old child have sufficient knowledge of such medical-ethical life issues? If in doubt, you don't make a choice yet, and you can't or don't even want to choose it, is also a choice, as well as the choice that you don't want to be registered. But all these options will not be accepted anymore, because it must eventually become either a yes or a no. Everyone must be registered by the government. The choice not to choose will be remembered, after which your next of kin will be charged with the yes or no choice. The government, the state, should be wondering why so many people don't register. Not because they wouldn't be thinking about it or thinking about it, but because they still have doubts, and they may continue to do so until their death. This Chamber of reflection has a great responsibility to arrive at a fair and objective assessment of the current legislation on organ donation, in which we should not neglect the interests and the situation of the potential donor. My party has absolutely no doubt about the integrity of the initiativer in this legislative amendment and of the advocates for an active donor registration system. Liberals in politics generally talk about taking opportunities and offering opportunities. The initiator says she's doing it all for the patient, but shouldn't we also talk about the organ donor as a patient, given the existing difference of understanding about what "brain death" and "deceased" means, and that there are a lot of experts who still see the brain-dead person as a human being, as a patient who has yet to undergo his death process? In the current and new situation, the next of kin may decide whether or not to make an organ donation if someone has been declared brain-dead, has no codicil or has not registered as an organ donor. But for my group it is obvious that if someone does not want his organs to be removed after his death, for whatever reason, the government has no legitimate and moral reason to ask people what should happen to their organs. An opt-out option is an unacceptable breach of one's physical integrity, of the right of self-determination and of the inviolability of one's own body. There is therefore a great responsibility on the shoulder of each individual Member of Parliament to arrive at a fair and objective decision independently of any political colour, with a view to the person who has not been registered and who is no longer able to make clear what he or she wants, a person who has been declared dead both medically, legally and legally by a declaration of brain death. But there are at least doubts as to whether a brain death certificate really involves a dead person. That person is still seen by many as a patient, the forgotten patient, and that is something we should certainly pay attention to here in this Chamber. My question is, therefore, and that may be for the Minister: does the Minister think that, given the pros and cons vote on this bill in the House of Representatives and the considerable sensitivity of this medical-ethical issue in society, the initiator should stick to this bill? And, if so, why? In the current situation, you don't have to do anything if you don't want to be a donor. In the possible new situation with the Active Donor Registration System, you will be chosen if you have not been registered. The citizen is under the assumption that he has freedom of choice, including not to choose, but that is not the case with the ADR system, because you can only make it clear in writing that you do not want to do so. The government forces you to choose, and if you don't want to choose, that government will condone your body by stating that you have no objection. The government has the right to know what the desired route is with regard to physical integrity in a philosophical, medical-ethical issue, and that is far from the free liberal values that many of us are so dear to. The protection of the body, i.e. its physical integrity, is included in a free, democratic and liberal legal order, as we believe it to be, among the core tasks of the government. This protection is expressed, inter alia, through criminal and civil provisions relating to personal injury. It is even one of the starting points of our government's authority. Our fundamental rights, our free will, our free choice, our physical self-determination and integrity must also be safeguarded in this Chamber, whether or not people have registered as donors. Mr. Chairman. In general, the social and public debate in the information on organ donation and in the public media mainly concerns the lack of donors, the shortage of donor bodies and waiting lists of recipients. Scepticism and discussions about the definition of "brain death" and the question of whether one can speak of the removal of organs after death or from a patient who is or is not still alive, are avoided or even dismissed as fake information, we could read yesterday in NRC. The Advertising Code Commission established in 2017, not for nothing, that the government misleads citizens in providing information on organ donation after death. If a government wants to tackle social media because of supposedly unreliable news, the same government must keep away from one-sided information campaigns focusing on people who need organs and are on the waiting list. Moreover, the demand for organ donors is increasing in any case, as there will be fewer donors in our country because of increased road safety, improved health care and optimal prevention in health care. So that problem will not be solved so quickly, not even with this legislative amendment initiative. I would like to ask the Minister the following. According to the Dutch Transplantation Foundation, increasing the number of donors will not automatically lead to an increase in the number of transplants. Perhaps this is also a question for the initiator. Can it make it clear why, with this science, it is still holding on to this bill? If people are forced to make a choice against our free, democratic and liberal rule of law, then giving correct and complete information is essential so that people can freely make their own informed decision about their own well-being and body. If a government thinks it is right for us to sign up as an organ donor, that government should also inform and explain to us why it thinks this is a good thing. The potential post-mortem donor will then have the full right to know what happens if he finds himself in such a situation. If that does not happen, the credibility and integrity of our government will be at stake. It is therefore very unfortunate that the results of factual research see, for example, "What you should know about organ donation" by author Ger Lodewick, a book that I have read, do not get serious attention from the political spectrum, the mainstream media and the public broadcasting, which has that as its legal task. Survivors who have to give permission have been helped with such complete and correct information. Did our loved one die or is he dying? What exactly does brain death mean? What happens when I get into this situation, both as a potential donor and as a next of kin? I referred to it for a while: during the expert meeting, one of the speakers also called for it. Such questions will have to be answered and discussed. The social and public debate in this area is still far too one-sided. If one only finds out later, this can, as we know by now, give rise to unnecessary grief and guilt on the part of next of kin. My question is therefore: does the initiator or does the Minister think that the public should be fully informed and properly informed and that this should be reflected in the public and social debate and that, until the debate has been crystallized, this bill should be left for what it is? If not, why not? If so, what is the Minister going to do and what is the initiator going to do to shape the social and public debate in a less one-sided way? Mr. Chairman. The Party for Freedom, my party, stands for the preservation of our freedom and is therefore opposed to the taking away or restricting even more freedom of the citizen. Everyone in the Netherlands must be free to make a choice about organ donation, and even making no choice is a free choice. Whatever choice is made, it will have to be made on the basis of fair and objective information. The body of the Dutchman is not state property but entirely his own. The ADR system is sold as a righteous thing, as a beautiful thing, as a social thing, but at the same time it forces citizens to choose. A choice under duress is not a voluntary choice, and the government must refrain from exerting pressure on our freedom of choice. In addition to the choice for or against the donation of organs, one also has the right not to choose, not to make a choice. Moreover, the ADR system is contrary to Article 8 of the ECHR, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU and to Article 11 of the Constitution, even though it states that everyone has the right to inviolability of his or her body, subject to any restrictions to be imposed by or under the law. The definition of the fundamental right in Article 11 is therefore largely left to the legislator, which means that the right to physical integrity is no longer an absolute right. The proposed legislative amendment, including the inclusion of an Active Donor Registration System, is living proof of this. The fact that a law can restrict the right to inviolability of our body as laid down in Article 11 is still to be defended when it comes to less serious matters. Then I'm thinking about taking out head hairs or taking out cheek mucus from a suspect in order to determine beyond doubt whether the suspect's DNA matches or doesn't match the DNA found at the scene of a major crime. Everyone understands that in that case. The social interest thus prevails over the right to inviolability of the body. That's clear. But with this bill, Article 11 of the Constitution on the inalienable principle of self-determination and the right to physical and personal integrity becomes an empty shell. How can it be defended that something as far-reaching as the removal of bodies without the express consent of the person concerned is made possible by the proposal before us now? I'd like a response from the applicant and from the minister, I'm sure. The patient, a human being, an individual, is always in charge of his own body and this bill is contrary to that. Group morals and social pressure force you to choose to register as a donor. This puts pressure on the right to self-determination, on physical integrity and thus on violence. This ADR system resembles an expropriation law of the body, of one's organs, and that is contrary to the right to the inviolability of the body. People are being pressured morally. In case of doubt, it is considered that there is no objection. In the end, people are afraid to say no. Does it have consequences, one wonders, if I'm going to fill in "no." The government, the State, is gaining more and more control over the lives of the individual citizen. That government, that State, already determines and decides a great deal for us and exerts more and more power on the individual citizen and later even on our most personal property: our own body. Politics has decided to do so by saying 'yes', with only one vote more in the House of Representatives. But we, Mr President, are lucky to be able to say 'no'. Doubt if you don't want to or can't make a choice... and with that a lot of Dutch people struggle.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So the state is forcing us to choose. No room is left to stay outside the register. Having to choose when in doubt is a gotsp. Not being able or wanting to make a choice does not mean that we are not dealing with it, that we are not thinking about it. When a collector comes to my door for a good cause, I can freely choose whether or not I give it, or whether I don't give it because of doubt about anything in relation to that charity, while the freedom of choice when giving up our most personal property, our body, our organs, is not even allowed to us. The decision-making power of the individual over his own organs, the freedom of the individual, an ultimate right of each individual, is completely undermined. Mr. Chairman. There is only one conclusion to be drawn as far as our group is concerned, namely that we have no choice but to vote against this bill. I have another supplementary question for the Minister on registration, should this bill be adopted, which I do not hope to have. All registration is done and is done through the Basic Registration Persons or with the help of DigiD. However, it appears that 3% of people over 18 will not be reached. Then we'll talk about almost half a million people. How does the Minister intend to solve that problem? That is a very crucial question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your attention. It was a pleasure to speak here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Would you stand there for a moment, please? Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You were born and raised cityman. For the non-Groningers among us: a cityer is a resident of Groningen. But you are also very involved in the Groningen Ommeland. Again for the non-Groningers among us: the Ommeland is the province of Groningen, not the city. Since 2011, you have been a member of the Provincial States of Groningen and group chairman on behalf of the PVV. In the Provincial States, you are committed, in your own words, to the victims of natural gas extraction and to the victims of wind turbines in inhabited areas. During the 2015 campaign, you also said you wanted to work for more jobs for young people in Groningen and The Hague. That last point undoubtedly stems from your background in education. You have been trained as a teacher at the Rijks pedagogische Academie Groningen. You are trained as a teacher at the Rijks Pedagogische Academie Groningen. From 1978 to 1988 you worked as such at a public primary school in Hoogezand. In 1988 you obtained the deed of jurisdiction for special education. Then you worked for fifteen years as a teacher in Paterswolde at a special education school and five years at the Alpha College, a regional training centre in Groningen. At Renn4, a umbrella organisation for schools in special education, you then worked as an outpatient supervisor. In addition to your work in education and your political-social career, you have been active as a real estate agent in Groningen, City and Ommeland since 1996. During the visit of the Provincial States of Groningen and Drenthe to this Chamber in November 2017, you held a reference about sustainability. You advocated the use of Groningen's sobriety in politics. Your background in combination with that Groningen sobriety predicts an interesting further contribution to the work of this Chamber and we wish you every success. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for a few minutes to give the honourable Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but only after I have congratulated you first on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u5	The next item is the continuation of the first term on the part of the Chamber of the consideration of the bill 33506, the proposal for a law of member Pia Dijkstra amending the law on organ donation in relation to the inclusion of an active donor registration system. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Kesteren on his maiden speech on perhaps one of the most controversial legislative proposals we are going to deal with this year. I wish him every success. Mr. Chairman. Then, on behalf of our group, I would like to congratulate the initiator, Mrs Dijkstra, for her perseverance that since her arrival in the House of Representatives in 2010, she has been so passionate about organ donation. Its commitment and persuasiveness have led to the adoption of the initiative legislative proposal in the TK. I have great respect for her efforts. Mr. Chairman. Today, the bill on active donor registration is being discussed, by some also called "automatic donor registration" because of the fact that in the absence of a choice someone automatically becomes a donor, a system change from opt-in to opt-out that should resolve the shortage of post-mortem donor organs. On this subject, you cannot escape the fact that, in addition to business considerations and legal reviews, your personal feelings and experiences can also play a role. I'm thinking about the summer of 1995 when my husband and I had our second beautiful son. After returning from the hospital I noticed that my husband complained a lot about tiredness, something which caused some resentment to me; to be honest, quite a bit of resentment since I had done the real work. But this extreme fatigue, as it turned out some time later, was due to a leaking heart valve. My husband was in surgery and had a mechanical valve. However, within a year and a half, a bacterial infection appeared to have affected the tissue around the heart valve, a life-threatening situation that required my husband to be absorbed immediately. The only possibility that was still open was the placement of a donor valve. The wait started. The weeks became months until the moment came when I could no longer cope with the uncertainty. I begged the doctor to tell me when my husband could finally be operated on. The doctor just looked at me and said, "hope for a hard winter." I remember now that I could only stare back in bewilderment. It was only then, then, that it began very slowly to get to me that someone else had to die before the heart valve so desired would be available. I would have been so focused on getting this necessary organ so that my husband, the father of my children, would remain alive, that I would have completely repressed the cause by which this organ would become available. The harsh winter didn't come here, but it did in Sweden. My husband got a life-saving donor valve via Eurotransplant. Now, exactly 21 years later, he's still alive because of this donor valve. You understand that no one, absolutely no one, has to convince me of the need and the importance of organ donation. Of course, this organ transplant has had a big impact on our family. Instantly, my husband, my mother and I signed up as donors. But when I told my husband that if anything should happen to one of our underage children, I wouldn't disagree with organ donation, he got furious. No, that was unspeakable, his boys weren't allowed to become donors. Such a rejection is remarkable for someone who has received an organ himself. Thank God we have never faced such a terrible choice, but it does indicate how different we thought about it. Our sons are now of age and they have both registered as donors in which one of them has not made his heart available. My mother, who was registered as a donor for 21 years, recently, after an intrusive conversation with a family member, reversed her donor registration. Mr. Chairman. This personal story shows how in a family consisting of only four or five people who have all had to deal with organ donation, such different choices can be made. I seem to be rather pragmatic, because I reason: don't waste what can be vital to someone else. I have made no reservations; all my organs are available for transplantation and for scientific research. But, Mr. Chairman, I'm not standing here before myself. I am standing here with 17 million Dutch people, all of whom will be confronted with the initiative proposal if it is adopted. The proposed legal change includes the category "no objection'. Dutch residents who are not going to make a yes-no choice for any reason will be registered as having no objection to organ donation. At the expert meeting on 23 May 2017, it was noted that everyone in the Netherlands should have the right not to make a choice either, but this bill leaves no room for this. This in many people's eyes forced choice through the government evokes resistance in a lot of people. The initiativer is undoubtedly aware that following the adoption of this bill in the House of Representatives, thousands of people have signed out as donors, thus achieving a counter-productive result of what the bill aims to achieve. In this proposal, the initiator more or less assumes that everyone will be able to make a choice for him or her on receipt of a donor form. It assumes that information can be made in such a way that everyone can make use of their right to self-determination in order to make a balanced and careful choice. But in practice, it doesn't work the same way. Some target groups in society have difficulty making choices. Their passivity does not have to be caused by unwillingness, but can indicate inability or overload, and this growing culture of choice is very threatening for some in our society. It can make people insecure. I refer to the report Knowing is not yet done by the Scientific Council for Government Policy of 24 April 2017, which provides a much more realistic picture of the citizen's self-reliance. It is precisely because of uncertainty that people can postpone choices. In this proposal, no choice, no response to the donor form means that you are then presumed to agree to full organ donation, both for transplantation and for scientific research. In its letter of 2 December 2016, the Council of State stresses the right of self-determination which is the guiding principle of the current Law on organ donation and the related Law on the Medical Treatment Agreement. Everyone's right to have their own body, in conjunction with the right to the inviolability of the body, is a classical fundamental right that must not be infringed without a legal basis. This Article 11 of the Constitution also applies after death. The category "no objection' infringes the right of inviolability of the body. According to the Council of State, this infringement is only acceptable if the criteria of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity are met. The need to have sufficient bodies to save people's lives is outside any discussion. Otherwise, the weighting of the criteria will be proportionality and subsidiarity. The effectiveness of the proposed decision-making system must have sufficient support in society. Moreover, the infringement of the right of inviolability of the body cannot exceed what is necessary for the intended purpose. The ultimate remedium in the proposal "if you do not choose, then the government chooses for you" can ensure that the support level increases rather than increases. Then there is subsidiarity. Can less radical measures achieve the same objective? The initiativer has repeatedly indicated that information in all possible forms has been given for years and that this has not led to an increase in donors. At last May's expert meeting, Mr Reitsma said: When the information comes across as an implicit message from a slogan, a campaign or a donor week as 'they need my organs', it can counter-develop and you get an opposite result. Mrs Wiegman, at the same meeting, also expressed reservations as to whether the possibilities for information had already been fully applied. Initiator considers that good and careful information will be sufficient to meet the three criteria laid down by the Council of State, which justifies the infringement of the inviolability of the body. But, as my group wonders, how can this be consistent with the frequently expressed principle that this bill is necessary precisely because the years of information campaigns and information on donations have proved insufficient to have sufficient donors? Why should the biggest information campaigns that have failed before reach every citizen? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the more technical implementation of the bill. The deadline. Anyone who has not yet been registered will receive a donor form. The time limit within which you have to respond is six weeks. If you didn't respond, you'll get one more reminder, another six weeks' notice. Once again, if they do not respond, a confirmation of no objection will follow. In the reply, the initiator states that the six-week period is also used in the General Administrative Law, for the submission of objections or appeals, and would therefore be a reasonable period of time. But, Mr President, we are talking about very fundamental choices, surrounded by ethical and moral values. Organ donation is fundamentally different from challenging an administrative decision. 50PLUS considers the deadline to be insufficient, with only one reminder, especially for vulnerable groups. In practice, a person who receives a donor book for the first time will often put it in the drawer for the purpose of discussing organ donation with family members, but then forget to do so. One reminder letter doesn't change that. Maybe family members don't come weekly or live abroad. And what about the considerable group of low-literate people, or the people who are not or hardly the Dutch language? The risk that, by non-response, one may fall unintentionally and unwantedly into the category "no objection" is more than present. At the expert meeting of 6 June 2017, drs. Marjolein van Leeuwen van Pharos our committee VWS a clear picture of how a low-ranking or low-ranking person looks at texts. It concerns a group of 2.5 million people aged 16 and over for whom finding correct information on a website is too difficult. One does not have a DigiD or does not know how to use it, and also filling out forms is often difficult or too difficult. Is a two-time six-week period sufficient to ensure that they can also fill out this donor form of their own choice? It is true that, in the reply, the initiator states that, if someone is unintentionally registered in the category "no objection', this can still be changed, but how does a person who does not have a DigiD or cannot read confirmation of registration find that he or she is registered in that category, I ask the initiator. The further reply states that municipalities are given a legal task to ensure that people are regularly reminded of their registration. How does it work? And if this repeated disclosure obligation is so important, why has it not been introduced years ago? Had an intensification of the provision of information not already contributed to much more registrations? I'd like an explanation. Can the initiator estimate in advance which category will be the largest if this bill is adopted? In short, the group of hunters, the group of no-sayers or the group "no objections"? And if she expects the last group to become the largest, what reason does she think is behind this? Then I come to the registration of no objection to the exclusion of organs. In the current legislation, you can consent to the removal of organs, but also exclude certain organs. You have a freedom of choice as to which organs you want to make available or not. Exclusion of an organ can be done on very personal grounds. However, the person registered in the category of "no objection" is considered to be a full donor, lacking the possibility of exclusion of organs and also the exclusion for scientific research. The initiator acknowledges this in the further reply, but states that someone should register as a donor, because you can then exclude certain bodies or scientific research. This contradiction is stuck. It is precisely the citizen who, for reasons unknown, has never responded to the donor form that can donate more organs than someone who surrenders fully as a donor after the required period of time in which he is registered as no objection, but excludes one or two organs. I would like to hear how this fundamental difference is going to be communicated in the provision of information to citizens, particularly the vulnerable groups I have just spoken about. For the sake of time, I will leave the subject to my colleagues from the CDA, the SP, the PvdA and D66, who, like 50PLUS, have already asked intrusive questions about this. Mr. Chairman. I'm in a huge conflict. I am thinking of Shirley Man's emergency cry, 23 years old, at last May's expert meeting, waiting for a donor heart. She has now been removed from the waiting list due to health problems. I am thinking of the waiting list on which 1,100 people are standing, of which about 150 die every year because a donor organ does not become available in time. And I am thinking of the nine million people who, for many different reasons, have not yet made a choice, whereas a majority of them have already indicated that they are in favour of organ donation. Is it right for them to lose their freedom of choice? Those are the nine million people who can only make a careful and informed choice when they have complete information. Can this information ever be so comprehensive as to enable every citizen to fully understand the scope of his or her choice? I would like to await the answer of my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mr Van Kesteren on his maiden speech. He must have been caressed that there was so much interest in his speech. Mr. Chairman. Whose body is my body when I breathe out my last breath? The bill of organ donation relates very quickly to death and life, to health and disease, to charity and emotions. But the fundamental question raised by the legislative proposal is: how do the authority and responsibility of the government extend? Where does the government improperly enter into personal freedom? There has been a time when Christians in particular were associated with patronage and guardianship. This role has now been taken over by the government. Are we too much? The government is encouraging us to move. Are we eating too fat? The government stimulates healthy food. Are we being too rude with each other? Through education, the government makes us "normal" citizens. Daddy and Mama have been replaced by Master Bart and Miss Anna. Are our thoughts about sexual morality too narrow-minded? The government likes to force a portion of diversity. A cigar in a restaurant? The government's gonna put him out with heavy guns. Anyone who thinks black and white gets the NOS on his roof. And when the spirit of life evaporates, the government legitimizes your end of life. By the way, it is striking how much of these government measures focus on our bodies. Renate Dorrestein has clearly denounced the body cult of our time. According to her, Christian faith has been replaced by the compelling belief that man is his own creator. Apart from the fact that this feminist has an eye for the limits of the creatability of faith. The body as the idol of our time. Ever since we've been trying to live as if God doesn't exist, eternity has gone out of the picture and only remains here and now. Mr President, the public authorities have entered the private sphere in various ways. This development also includes the legislative proposal for organ donation. A proposal that seeks a noble purpose. Saving human lives by making more human organs available through donation. I do not doubt the good intentions of the performer and I sincerely hope that D66 also chooses for life on other dossiers with equal conviction. That would be a donation to our society. The question, however, is: can the government go as far as pursuing an in itself noble goal as the legislative proposal seeks? Does she have that authority? No matter how we turn it or turn it around, the bill wants the government to fill out our donor form for us in advance with "yes, unless." This is a fundamental change in relation to the current decision-making system for organ donation, which in principle assumes explicit consent for organ donation. If the bill becomes law, everyone is a donor, unless you expressly state that you do not want it. Here, the government is taking over its power and there is a disproportionate breach of physical integrity. I very much agree with what Mr Borst (D66) said at the time, and I must say, unfortunately, that Mrs Borsthausen, who, in 1996, expressed her 'principal objections' to a non-objection system in this Chamber, as is currently proposed. For the sake of clarity, I have put objections of principle in quotes because they are her own words. She said the following about the current system of organ donation: "Our preference for a system in which people are only donors if they or their relatives have explicitly chosen to do so has to do with the fact that it is something very personal, something very profound: what will happen to you after your death?" Minister Borst pointed out that people should explicitly choose to help a fellow man after the death. I was struck by the fact that it was quite surprising to read back the Acts that the D66 spokesperson also spoke in that debate, Mrs Tuinstra. Mr. Chairman. The Christian tradition, in which the SGP wants to stand, stands for personal freedom. That personal freedom is certainly about dealing with one's own body. This is where we hit an area where the government is not allowed to invade. For the SGP, the foundation of this bill is you are a donor, unless you object to a bridge too far. Anyone who decides to become a donor for the benefit of fellow citizens may be doing a good deed. And there is nothing wrong with informing the public authorities to make a responsible choice. But this has to be a personal decision, without government intervention. This also applies to the choice not to want to be a donor. And even if people don't want to make the choice of being or not being a donor at all, it belongs to their own freedom. Non-choosing is also a matter of personal freedom. In this sense, a non-objection system is incompatible with the donor idea. Donor is your only choice if you make a conscious choice. A gift is characterized by intrinsic freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u9	It is very nice to hear such a fervent plea from the SGP about personal freedom. I fully agree with that, but Mr Van Dijk really focuses his arrows very much on the individual's right to decide for himself. If you look at the current system now, you can see that if people haven't made a decision, the next of kin will eventually be asked if they'll consent to the donation. Do you think that the right to self-determination or possession of your own body can also be transferred to the freedom of decision of next of kin? How do you see these two in proportion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u10	I understand Mrs Strike's question very well. I would like to answer the following question. It is true, if you think completely under the right of self-determination, you can say that the current practice is not perfect in this respect either. I would point out, however, that it makes a big difference to me, and I also think for many citizens, whether you then place your organs in the hands of next of kin or in the hands of the government. If this bill were to become law, there would still be a fundamental breach of current practice. The current legislation is basically based on explicit consent, and this is now being reversed. If you don't let me know, the government can assume permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Van Dijk acknowledges that the position of next of kin is something else. In the end, it's about the person whose body is. If this bill is passed, does he see it as an advantage that the result is that more people are going to think for themselves and indicate whether or not they want to be donors? It'll be less in the hands of the next of kin alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u12	It would be the ideal of perhaps every senator in this room that every Dutchman makes a decision. It would be nice if you knew of every person whether it was yes or no. We will never reach that stage. I'll get back to you on that. There will always be a large group of people who do not respond and who do not fully understand what this is about. That's my point. I continue to see this bill as a deterioration in relation to the current situation. I just said that a gift is characterized by intrinsic freedom. You may find that annoying from a personal ethical perspective, perhaps lax and unethical, but the downside is that the government is going to enforce charity at the expense of personal freedoms. The bill is a violation of physical integrity. See the clear information provided by the Council of State: the removal of bodies without explicit consent implies an infringement of the donor's right to physical integrity. It is precisely the First Chamber that should be aware of this. The inviolability of the body is therefore an important asset. It is not for nothing that this right is enshrined in Article 11 of our Constitution. This fundamental right can be infringed, according to constitutional history and case law, when citizens give their consent voluntarily and informedly. However, the bill implies that if citizens do not make an active choice, the government may interpret this as tacit consent to organ donation. From the point of view of Article 11 of the Constitution, this is a very problematic reasoning. That aspect comes up in all its sharpness now that we cannot rule out the possibility of people being registered as donors who do not want to be. The bill presupposes a society of well-educated and informed autonomous individuals. However, this is largely fiction. Last week I went to my hairdresser, near here in the Chinese quarter; a son of immigrants from Hong Kong, who has lived in the Netherlands for 30 years. The barber, I've been there before, asked me what was politically going on and I called the bill organ donation. That was the first thing that came to mind. He didn't get anything from the ongoing discussion. He didn't like the government interfering with his organs and he asked how he could prevent this. I told him he could handle this through DigiD. DigiD? That's what I had to explain to him at the time. He threw all the government information in the trash by default because he didn't understand it anyway. Moreover, even when we talk about well-educated citizens, how informed can they be about complex technological practices in which developments follow each other at a rapid pace and come up with new moral dilemmas? I mention here only knowledge of the death criterion used in organ donation. Those criteria for determining death are complicated, but they also turn out to be variable and open to discussion. The problem that people are regarded as donors when they do not want to do so applies in particular to those who are unwilling to do so or who simply cannot understand the meaning of a donor form. That concerns a large group of people. The initiator recognizes this problem, but also fully acknowledges that there is no definitive system to neutralize this negative consequence of her legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u13	I can give examples of people who know very well what it's like. The example of your hairdresser? It's possible. But doesn't the gentleman just have the job of reading the mail he gets from the government? I can also throw away all my mail, but there are consequences. If I throw away my bills, I'll get a bailiff to visit. Where is the responsibility of the individual vis-à-vis the government? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u14	I'd like to respond to that. The fact that people throw away their government post unopened is, of course, highly undesirable. You can think that's stupid, too. However, my colleague Don knows much better than I do that there is a large group of people who, even if they were to open that post and seriously consider the text, do not understand it. We all know the examples of low literacy. I think that is something that we should be well aware of. It is precisely because it concerns such a personal matter as organ donation that we should not use the reasoning: anyone who does not speak up agrees. In this respect, I am in favour of explicit consent for such a personal thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr Van Dijk asked the initiator whether the proposed system was correct. Does he also want to address the question of whether he considers the current system to be final? Now almost nine million Dutch people prefer not to be known to the family. That means that at a very difficult time, namely after acute death, the family has to decide. That also creates a lot of difficulties. Would you like to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u16	I'd like to respond to that. That leads to very difficult and emotional situations. That's true. The practice is very often that next of kin say that they are not sure what their late husband, wife, father or mother wanted and so they say no. That's all unwelcome. We would all like to be clear. I shall come back to the basis of this bill. It is precisely because it is such a personal matter that the reasoning that is silent is too far away as far as I am concerned. I indicated earlier that it makes a big difference for people whether they implicitly give permission to their next of kin to decide on their organs or put it in the hands of a very impersonal government. I think that is a fundamental difference. I was talking about the problem of the group of people who can be registered as donors, when they really do not want to be. That concerns a large group of people. The initiator recognizes this problem, but does she also recognise that there is no definitive system to neutralize this negative consequence of her legislative proposal? Wouldn't it be much better in her eyes if the entire group were out of reach of the bill? However, this is not possible because of the decision-making system chosen by the applicant. Does the applicant recognise that there is therefore a fundamental change in terms of the willless and incompetent? On this point, the next of kin can stop organ donation if they make it plausible that the registration differs from what the person really wanted. However, it is rather vague how this should be made plausible. It should not be too simple, but it should not be too complicated. Does the applicant recognise that this can lead to very invigorating situations, precisely in a context in which the relatives are in an emotionally charged, sad situation and the doctors are under pressure of time? Why shouldn't doctors just accept it when family members refuse, regardless of their motivation? For the sake of clarity, this will concern in particular the category "no objection' because it is not an explicit consent but an assumed consent. Partly in the light of the above, I place my finger on the alleged effectiveness of the proposed system. There have been lengthy discussions in the written rounds. This shows that the effectiveness of the proposal is not an established issue. Various evaluations and studies underline this. Does the applicant recognise this great uncertainty and also recognize that it cannot be ruled out that the new decision-making system will lead to fewer or hardly more organ donors? In this connection, Minister Borst (D66) said in the aforementioned First Chamber debate in 1996 the following about the non-objection system, and I quote her: 'Such a system', so that is the non-objection system 'in which the legislator presupposes our solidarity, as it were, does not, in my opinion, fit with what I call our popularity. We want to help, but not if we are put on the spot by the government. All things considered, we remain of the opinion that the relationship between an objection system and more donors, a relationship which many people regard as totally uncontested and crystal-hard, is not so harsh." So much for the quote. Should we not take this warning from then Minister Borst to heart? I would also like a response from the Minister to this and I look forward with interest to the response to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr President, I have one more question for Mr Van Dijk. I have just said that I am somewhat surprised that Mr Van Dijk has become an advocate of individual self-determination. You have your own body, and no one else. Could Mr Van Dijk perhaps comment on other debates, in which we hear a completely different SGP saying that it is not up to the person himself to decide what happens to his or her body? I am referring, of course, to the euthanasia debate. Maybe he can tell us how these two relate to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u19	Of course I'd like to do that. Comparisons are always difficult. Firstly, we all believe that euthanasia is not merely a private matter. It is not for nothing that we have solid legislation in this area. Euthanasia should not be allowed unless very explicit conditions and conditions are met. The SGP believes that euthanasia is not merely a private matter, but a lot of people agree with me. In addition, and therefore comparing is always difficult, I hope I made it clear in my speech that organ donation is incredibly beautiful, an act of Christian charity. I want to be very clear about that. So there's no way the government should slow that down. She's allowed to provide information, all fine. In euthanasia we say: the government must be on the side of life. We are opposed to this in principle, but that is indeed a very different area. So the point here is not whether you are for or against organ donation, but how far the responsibility of the government extends. Can it assume permission where it has not been given explicitly? That is the whole point, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u20	I note that it is more motivated by moralism than by self-determination. Maybe I can draw that conclusion then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u21	Well, I have to tell you, I may not quite understand what Mrs. Strik means right now. Actually, I say it quite businesslikely: I am concerned here with the question of where the government should stop, how far the role of the government goes. That's it. So moralism and everything isn't the first thing that comes to mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u22	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u23	Because Mr.Van Dijk now comes with the argument of charity: organ donation is very important and Mr.Van Dijk supports it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u24	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u25	While euthanasia is, of course, also about self-determination and how far you still want to go with your life. So I think those two are similar: if you assume self-determination, you should draw the same line. But Mr Van Dijk is going to use very different reasonings here, which in this legislative proposal, I hear, amounts to: we are in favour of donation and charity, but we do not want the government to make a decision in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mr President, this calls for very long essays, but I will be very brief. Euthanasia is not just a private matter, and we all think so. In that sense, I do not think that comparison is entirely appropriate, whereas giving organs is a private matter, something that you have to decide personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate Mr Van Kesteren on his maiden speech. I look forward to debates with him with his substantive, sober and involved input on this law today, but also on other legislation; debates which, in view of our spokespersonships, will be mainly about care and education. If you're waiting for a donor kidney, cornea, a skin transplant or any other donor organ or tissue, every day you wait for one is too long. You are for your quality of life and in some cases also for the ability to live longer, depending on decisions made by others. The PvdA Group has a lot of compassion with the 1,100 people waiting annually for a donor body and appreciation for anyone who is committed to improving life for them and increasing the number of donors. We also respect people who live by giving up a kidney, part of their liver, skin or bone marrow. We find it hopeful that technological developments greatly improve the quality of art organs and look forward to developments in the manufacture of replacement organs of natural materials, e.g. 3D printing. However, my group is well aware that these developments are hopeful, but insufficient to meet the current demand for donor tissues and organs. Transplanting care is part of the necessary collectively funded care in our country. This means that there is a responsibility on the part of the public authorities to promote access to this care. Much work has been done in recent years to increase the number of potential donors and improve transplant care. This has produced a lot, but unfortunately the number of potential donors is not sufficient. People sometimes have to wait years for a donor organ. This raises the question of whether the government should no longer do anything to improve access to transplant care. And, if so, how far can the government go? Under the current donor law, you are only a potential donor if you choose to do so or if your next of kin agree if you haven't committed your will, or have left the choice to them. The fact is that only 25% of adults in our country have recorded in the Donor Registry that they want to be donors. Of the relatives of people who have not expressed their will, 70% do not agree with the donorship. However, research shows that more than half of the Dutch responds to want to be a donor. This raises the question of what we can and may do to ensure that people record their will as regards donorship in the Donor Registry. And more precisely, can we go so far as to legally regulate that anyone who has not expressed his will is a potential donor, as the initiator suggests? How can people be prevented from becoming an unintended donor? Is the government going to cross a line when it comes to legislation and behavioral influence? If you don't do something, you're a donor. Or is this the right way to implement the social right to health care? Questions that are central to today's debate. Mr. Chairman. With the Active Donor Registration Bill, the initiator, Ms Dijkstra, aims to increase the number of donor registrations and thus the number of potential donors. When people have their own will recorded in the Donor Registry, this relieves the next of kin. Also for doctors, the conversation with relatives about donorship is easier to conduct if people have recorded their preference in the Donor Register. The members of the PvdA Group appreciate the involvement of the initiator. However, the views on the bill differ, and that makes sense, because it is quite a lot: on the one hand, literally the difference between life and death for people who are waiting for a donor organ, and on the other hand, the question of who can have your body when there is heart or brain death. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear at the beginning of my speech: the members of the PvdA Group are struggling with this bill. We are well aware that more potential donors are needed and that additional efforts are needed to achieve this. People cannot escape the sphere of government influence. For this reason, the government must exercise restraint when it comes to behavioral influence and legislation which infringes the inviolability of the human body and the right of self-determination of people. For the PvdA Group, it is important that people should not become donors who do not want to. We believe that it is important to prevent doctors from being given responsibility for donorship, which belongs to the legislator. And we want to get a better look at the role and position of the next of kin. Today's debate is therefore very important to us. We will involve the answers of the initiator and the Minister in our consideration to reach a final judgment on the legislative proposal. Every member of the political group is free to decide in the end whether he or she will vote for or against the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank all those who have shared their views with us and in particular those who have contributed to the two expert meetings we have organised from this Chamber. These reactions sharpen our minds and help us assess the bill. The issues raised are diverse. They relate not only to the bill itself, but also to brain death and the way in which potential donors are dealt with sometimes based on facts, sometimes based on fiction or fear of the unknown. It is also about individual experiences of people who are waiting for a donor organ and about personal experiences with the transplant process. The reactions show that it matters how we organise the donorship in our country. They also give an idea of what is needed to gain, maintain and secure people's trust in the government in our healthcare system. Unfortunately, in today's debate, we do not have time and space to deal with all these issues related to the Donor Act. We will focus on the core of the bill: a fundamental change in the donor registration system that makes everyone a donor, unless he or she has entered in the Donor Register that he or she does not want to be or has put that choice in the hands of others. We thank the government and, above all, the initiator for the comprehensive answer to the questions on the legislative proposal. They have clarified a number of things. At the same time, the answers raise new questions and a number of points are still not clear enough. It is mainly about what is needed to make the real difference to this bill, about the donation of people who have not committed their will in the Donor Register, about the division of roles in decision-making between doctors and next of kin and about the provision of information on the bill. Mr. Chairman. For all of us, the impact of the bill is uncertain. It is unclear whether more people will actually apply as potential donors. We also do not know how many people will not make their preferences known and what the effects will be on trust in government. There are signs that more people will indicate that they want to be potential donors, but also that people will refrain from doing so because they believe that potential donors should be a free choice and they do not want the government to interfere with donorship. On the other hand, there are reports from people who find it easy if they are automatically donors without doing anything. Mr. Chairman. When we look at the results of a system change towards a so-called donor registration opt-out system in other countries, they turn out to be variable and not just dependent on the legal framework. Research into donor systems in other countries, such as Rosenblum's and others from 2011 in 54 countries, shows that if you want to improve the functioning of the donor system, there are no simple solutions. It is a complex issue, in which issues such as legislation, practices and procedures, infrastructure, but also ideology and culture play a role. Comparison is difficult because the number of potential donors depends not only on the number of road accidents and brain bleeds, but also on how hospitals deal with potential donors. What is clear is that a system change without an active strategy of informing and accompanying people in their choice has no added value. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, this means that we must be extremely careful when changing our donor system and paying attention to all the elements that are relevant in this context. Mr. Chairman. The bill states that if people do not respond to the call for registration, they will be included in the Donor Register that they have no objection to the donorship. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has difficulty with the name and preference to make this 'no objection'. We do not know whether people who will not register have any objections. We only know that, for whatever reason, these people have not made use of the opportunity to express and record their wish in the Donor Registry. We know D66 as a party that places a strong emphasis on people's right to self-determination. My group is curious as to why the initiator has chosen to use the wording "no objection" in the legislative proposal for those who have not expressed their will. I would like to comment on this point. This brings us to the question of whether the title of the bill is correct and does not give rise to the wrong suggestion. Our current system is an active donor registration system. You must act actively to get your will recorded in the Donor Registry. The bill we're discussing today is a form of passive donor registration. The default changes: you're a potential donor, unless you've got yourself included in the Donor Registry that you don't want to be a donor. In international literature, it is customary to designate systems such as our current donor system as a system based on explicit consent. The bill now before us is referred to as a system with supposed consent. Our question to the initiator is why she has deviated from this usual way of referring to the title of the bill and has given the bill the title Active Donor Registration. If people are not put on the wrong track, the question of the PvdA Group is. As regards someone's freedom to register or not, my group has another question for the Minister. He stated in his last letter on donorship that the donorship itself should be and should remain a free choice, but that the donor registration should be seen as a moral obligation. If this is not too short, the PvdA's question is too short. Responses to the bill show that reasons for non-registration vary. Does the Minister have any idea why people are refusing registration? Can he understand, for example, people who do not want to register because they do not want to think, can or dare to think about death and other things that play around death? Can the Minister imagine that there is an internal conflict among some people, for example between cultural and social expectations that you should be a donor and not want to be a donor? If the Minister thinks that these people are forsaken of their moral duty, we wonder. How does the Minister assess the current working methods and information on the Donor Act? Does he agree with the initiator that the possibilities offered by this law are exhausted and that a change of law is the only way to increase the number of donor registrations? Does the Minister consider that the costs associated with the introduction of the bill, some 30 to 35 million, are acceptable if current expenditure on transplant care is taken into account? Have we understood correctly that there is no cover for these costs yet? What proposal does the initiator have to cover the costs associated with the introduction of the legislative proposal? Mr. Chairman. For the members of the PvdA Group, an important point is that we must prevent people who do not want to be treated as donors. The Social Development Council believes that people should make their own choices about donorship and that the government should not influence their choice. The Council of State, in its information, stresses that infringement of the inviolability of the human body is only acceptable if there is sufficient justification for this. That infringement must meet the criteria of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. The proposed information obligations should ensure that precise, understandable and accessible information on organ donation is provided in such a way that the person being registered understands the information and the consequences of non-registration sufficiently. This is a condition for being able to speak of informed, express or implied consent. Through Mr Wolbert's amendment to the House of Representatives, the task of providing information has been entrusted to the Minister of VWS, and my group welcomes that. It is important that people are given objective information and information appropriate to their need to make an informed choice. The experts' meeting and the many written responses we have received show how different people's needs for information on donorship are and how critical the choice of words is, especially when it comes to determining death. How is the government going to meet the diversity of information needs of people thinking about donorship? Is the Minister prepared to refer the AMvB drawn up in accordance with Article 33 of the Donor Act to this Chamber? There are 7.6 million adults who have not recorded their will in the Donor Registry. The PvdA wonders how the Minister will assess whether adequate and adequate information and information has been given to them. For example, during the information campaign, as in countries such as Wales, is it intended to periodically measure how people look at the new system and to what extent they are aware of the consequences of not registering themselves? If not, how does the government intend to assess whether it has fulfilled its information obligations as outlined by the Council of State, my group is wondering. What needs to change in order to speak of a successful legislative change is our question to the Minister, but also to the initiator. Are there any consequences, for example, for developments in the number and nature of new or modified registrations, and if so which ones? Mr. Chairman. In this debate, the PvdA would like to draw particular attention to those who, for whatever reason, are unable or difficult to express their will and express their opinion on donorship. It concerns people who are unable to act actively, or who fail to understand the consequences of non-reactions. These are people who are low-literate, have a slightly intellectual disability, and/or suffer from acute stress due to major events, and/or cannot act properly due to mental stress; people who in the WRR report Knowing is not yet doing, a realistic perspective of redundancy, are referred to as people with reduced "doing capacity." Part of them have so much to worry about because of debts, grief, loneliness or poverty that they have little attention to other matters and difficult to take action. Exact numbers are missing, but the estimate is that there will be more than a million adults in our country. For many Dutch people, decision-making about donorship is complicated, let alone for people with reduced "doing capacity." It is therefore very doubtful whether they will register themselves, let alone within the deadlines set out in the legislative proposal. How can people be prevented from becoming 'active' unintended donors is the question that concerns the members of my group. In answering questions about their support, the initiator refers to the role a general practitioner could play. That seems to us to be a good thing. The question is whether people who have not expressed their will are sufficiently in the picture with the general practitioner. Do general practitioners have sufficient time to actively support them in their choice of potential donorship? Can the initiator explain how she imagines this? In addition, the initiator points out in the written replies that relatives can also play a role. People with, for example, a slight intellectual disability, debts and/or mental problems often have a very limited network, which is mainly made up of people who have limited "doing capacity." The question is whether it can be assumed that these relatives themselves oversee the consequences of whether or not they register and thus whether they can be a good advisor on donorship. The government's response to the significance of the WRR report for the bill is very lean. It only deals with the need for long-term and intensive information. It is worrying that, in its reply, the government seems to be assuming in advance that not everyone will be reached. We hope that this is not the case. Please explain to the Minister how he looks at the recommendations contained in the WRR report. Is he prepared, for example, to take up the proposal that is made in it to actively and personally approach people? Would not there be in line with the recommendations of the WRR report for the introduction of the legislative proposal further investigation, or.q. a pilot is needed to better understand what kind of information, information and guidance is effective? I would like a response from the Minister and the initiator to this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the division of roles between the potential donor, the next of kin and doctors. The question is whether or not something changes in this division of roles. The answers of the initiator are not clear and we hope to get the desired clarity today. First of all, a question about the involvement of next of kin in the donation process. Have we understood correctly that donation can only be dealt with if next of kin can be reached? And what happens if there are no next of kin? Can we assume that we'll be dispensed with donation? The bill amends the donor law in such a way that doctors no longer have room to weigh the judgment of next of kin if people have indicated that they want to be a donor or have not expressed their will. Article 20 of the Donor Act is fundamentally amended. The only room for next of kin is included in the new paragraph 5 of this Article. Survivors must prove that the will decision, as recorded in the Donor Register, is incorrect. In the explanatory memorandum and in the answers to previously asked questions, the initiator is crystal clear: survivors must, on their own initiative, provide a well-founded account of why derogations should be made from the registered authorisation. It does not matter whether it is someone who has registered himself or someone who is registered as "no objection'. It is strongly reported that making it plausible is about the potential donor's wish and not about the will of the next of kin. For the PvdA group, it is not sufficiently clear what conditions it must fulfil. The reply states that it must be more than, I quote, 'a simple statement'. Who's gonna tell us what makes sense? What should next of kin say or do, we wonder. Take, for example, someone who says to his family that he doesn't want to think about death, that his next of kin have to decide when he's dead and that he doesn't want to record anything, because he doesn't trust government systems. If this family tells the doctor, is that enough, we wonder, or does the initiator think this is a simple statement? And when will this be enough? In response to written questions on this part of the legislative proposal, the initiator argues that "making good value" is also included in other legislation, such as that for education and construction. The PvdA Group believes that these are incomparable situations. These laws are often about material matters, or situations in which people have time to justify their position. Options such as the lodging of a complaint or a judicial procedure are open before a final decision is taken. That time and space are not there when taking out donor organs. There is time pressure, people are often sad and stressed and they have to provide support in that situation. My group wonders whether this does not impose on aid workers involved in transplant care a role that does not suit them, but belongs to the legislator or judge. It is not for nothing that the KNMG points out that the lack of clarity about the concept of "making decent" can lead to confusion and tension between doctors and next of kin. She asked for better legal certainty for doctors and even at the expert's meeting she proposed deleting the article on "making decent." In reply to our questions on this subject, the initiator states that she is not prepared to do so. Can the initiator indicate the added value of this article and how the legal certainty of doctors can be guaranteed? If we read the bill correctly, there is no room for doctors to refrain from donorship if next of kin have serious objections to this: the will of the next of kin does not matter, is stated in the explanatory statement. However, the initiator indicates that doctors have the power to deviate from what is included in the donor register when they are confronted with serious concerns of relatives. Doctors also indicate that the practice is and will continue to be that doctors do not remove organs or tissues if the removal of relatives will lead to serious psychological distress. No matter how understandable, this does raise questions. The initiator suggests that doctors do not have the obligation to take out an organ. Does this room for doctors go so far that they can decide for themselves whether to disregard the will of a potential donor? What is meant by "serious objections"? For example, if a mother of a 28-year-old daughter, who is in the Donor Registry as "no objection" and brain dead after an accident, indicates that she does not believe that her daughter is dead until she has seen her last breath blown out and tells that mother that she cannot bear to be cut into the gifted body of her child, is this a serious objection? And if so, what changes compared to the current law? If the legislative proposal does not create unnecessary uncertainty and uncertainty, while in practice nothing changes, the members of the PvdA Group are wondering. And if not, does it mean that a doctor should say: "Sorry, I understand you, ma'am, but the legislator has determined that your child is a donor because she has not expressed her will"? And what arguments are sufficient to convince the doctor that there is a mental emergency? My group also fears that there may be a situation in which people who are capable of expressing and supporting things will be given room to deviate from what is included in the Donor Register, and those who are less able to think or do so, in order to remain in the terminology of the WRR report, will not be able to do so. What safeguards can be taken to prevent this, we ask the initiator, but also the Minister. This brings us to the crucial question for the members of the PvdA when assessing this bill. If doctors can waive donation because of serious family problems, why is this not included and enshrined in this bill? Why are no detailed rules for the interpretation of the role of doctors laid down by or under General Management Measures? A legal anchor would also mean that it is clear to everyone what can and can be done, that case law can be built and that judicial review is possible. I would like a reply from the initiator on this point. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to our final point. It is striking that 25 out of 29 countries with an opt-out system have opted for the variant where donations only take place if the next of kin agree. It is, as it were, a right of veto for the next of kin. In the written questions, the PvdA Group has already indicated that this is our preference, especially in the case of people who have not recorded their will in the Donor Register. So far, the initiator did not see the need to do so. I'm gonna take one more shot. As long as we do not know what reason people do not register and the information is not yet in order, we propose to keep open the possibility for next of kin to decide on the donation of people who are referred to in the bill as the "no objection' category. This can be quite easy by not introducing Article 10a (2) and (3) and allowing the decision on that article to take place only after it is clear how large the group of people is who are not going to register themselves and why they are not doing so. On the basis of Article 11 (4), next of kin can then, as at present, give consent to donation. What is the attitude of the initiator to this proposal? If this could not increase the public support for the legislative proposal, we would ask the initiator. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. It is important that the government is committed to good transplant care and is doing a lot to increase the number of potential donors. The initiative proposal includes a fundamental change in the donor law. The members of the PvdA Group look forward to the answers of the initiator and the Minister to assess whether the legislative proposal achieves an adequate balance between the right of access to transplant care for people waiting for an organ and the right to inviolability of the human body and the right to self-determination for potential donors. We hope that the necessary clarification will be given today, particularly as regards information and information and the distribution of roles between doctors and relatives. We look forward to the answers of the initiator and the Minister and their reactions to our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For our part, too, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Kesteren on his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal for the amendment of the Organ Donation Act in relation to the inclusion of an active donor registration system, simply ADR. A bill that rightly lives very much in society. I've never had so many e-mails. Letters from organizations, but also many from individual people; personal, sometimes even handwritten letters. If you've seen the need of people waiting for an organ, you're motivated to think about how these people's suffering and their environment can be alleviated and you want to look for the most appropriate opportunities to recruit more donors. That's what the CDA wants. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes it seems that the bill would be about whether you are in favour or against organ donation. That's not what this is about. The possibility of organ donation has long been regulated by law in our country, and that is a good thing. In many religions and beliefs donations of money, goods and body parts are also considered to be morally desirable and sometimes even a moral duty. Our group is also in favour of organ donation. But what's the bill about? This is about changing the current opt-in system, in which people themselves claim to want to be donors, to an opt-out system, in which people who are not registered by the government are registered as "no objections" and thus as donors. The bill states, in short, that everyone is by definition a donor, unless you sign out as a donor. All unregistered 18-year-olds receive a letter calling on them to register as donors, as non-donors, to leave the choice of next of kin or to a third person. New is that someone who does not respond by the government is registered as "a person who does not object to removing his organs after his death" and thus becomes a de facto donor. A legislative amendment, which the Council of State, our highest advisory body, points out is to be examined in the light of Article 11 of the Constitution, which deals with the inviolability of the body, which does not end in the event of a person's death, and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which determines the right to protection of private life and which, in the same way, the Council also states that the right to the inviolability of the body and the right to have its own body. This article also includes the freedom not to make a choice. The Council also refers to the Medical Treatment Agreement Act, the WGBO. It states that medical treatment is only permitted with the consent of the patient, the so-called informed consent. All doctors are committed to that. The Council states that the ADR breaks with this principle by giving the consent to non-registration, the so-called presumed consent. In the Lower House the bill has been amended. As a result, the First Chamber asked the Council of State for information. The Council, in its information on 2 December, considers that the amendments constitute a'more balanced decision-making system', but concludes that even after the letters of amendment and the amendments, I quote 'the fundamental change in the decision-making system for organ donation in the own-initiative proposal is maintained' and 'that the considerations set out in the opinion on the original proposal remain relevant to the legislator'. Mr. Chairman. ADR affects fundamental constitutional rights. The Council speaks of a serious infringement of the right to inviolability of the body. In line with the Constitution and the ECHR, the Council considers an infringement possible, provided that the restriction is provided for by law, is necessary in a democratic society and serves one or more of the purposes listed in Article 8 ECHR. The Council considers the objective to be legitimate and the legislative proposal is there to regulate the infringement legally. However, the Council also says that the criteria of proportionality must be met, i.e. effectiveness and subsidiarity: there must be no other way of achieving the same objective. I will come back to that in a moment. Through the legislative proposal, the initiator hopes to increase the number of donations and registrations. That is what the CDA Group agrees with. However, the question is whether the proposed changes will actually have the desired effect. So what is in store is the question of whether two fundamental values of our society that are constitutionally anchored can be limited in the hope of more donors and more registrations. After all, the positive impact of ADR is not certain, as the advocates of the bill also stated at the expert meeting. In other words, is obtaining more donors sufficient ground to limit the inviolability of the body, as formulated in the Constitution, for those who have not recorded their will in the Donor Registry? And is obtaining additional donors sufficient grounds to limit the right of self-determination of his/her body for every Dutch citizen by asking for an active action, namely registration in the Donor Register? In addition, the question is whether you do not have ADR to achieve that goal. Our group wishes to stress once again that it sees the need of people who are waiting for an organ. It is also certainly motivated to consider how to alleviate the suffering of these people and their environment and to look for the most appropriate opportunities to recruit more donors and registrations. The bill places Members in an extremely sensitive ethical dilemma, in which each has strong personal thoughts and feelings. Mr. Chairman. Our group had a lot of questions about the bill. They have been discussed in detail in the preliminary stage. We thank the initiator and the government for the answers. Our group has also taken note of the presentation at the two expert meetings, the many e-mails and letters and also of national and international research reports. There is much to say about it, but I will not go into all the points that were raised there. I will focus here on the points that are most crucial for our group in making the final assessments. As you know, it is a free vote for our group. Each member will decide how to vote next week. That freedom is part of a subject that is so fundamental. I can already say that Members have different appreciations of the proposal. Mr. Chairman. In accordance with the task of the First Chamber, the considerations are mainly concerned with the question of necessity, proportionality, subsidiarity and feasibility. In addition, I will briefly address the risks related to public and health confidence. Firstly, as regards the necessity. The relevance, proportionality and subsidiarity play an important role in the demand for necessity. The relevance lies in the lack of organs. Unfortunately, there are still long waiting lists for people who need a new kidney, liver, lung or other organ. At the moment, more than 1,100 people are waiting for an organ. Most of them are waiting for a kidney. It is often vital for these people to increase the number of organ donors. The quality of life of these people is severely limited. Every year about 100 people are taken off the waiting list because they are too sick. Around 150 people die every year for whom a donor organ is ultimately late. One donor usually gives three to five organs Then there is the question of proportionality. This affects the demand for effectiveness. In other words, is there a real increase in donors in the introduction of ADR and does this outweigh the disadvantages mentioned above, namely the impairment of fundamental rights? Extending life, preventing mortality and improving the quality of life are highly desirable goals. However, the question is whether these will be achieved with the introduction of ADR. There are some observations about that. The government wrote: "The assumption that a person wants to be a donor if he does not object to this, I find an infringement of the right of self-determination which can only be justified if that infringement results in an undeniable and significant increase in the number of donors. I think that the uncertainties about the effects of a system change are too great for this to happen." International scientific studies show that ultimately the registration system is not the most important factor in increasing donors. In particular, the organisation of the donation process, including the number of people released for it, the communication, the approach of the next of kin and information, play an important role in registration and consent, especially when it comes to the consent of next of kin. I will come back to that later when I talk about subsidiarity. Both the initiator and the Dutch Transplantie Stichting, the NTS, as well as experts at the expert meetings, have indicated that there is no guarantee that ADR will yield more donors. That is what both supporters and opponents of ADR said. In Brazil and Chile the opt-out system has been reversed after a short time. There were too many write-offs. When reasons were mentioned that people do want to be donors, but turn off when the government claims their bodies. In the Netherlands, too, there were many write-offs after the adoption of the bill in the Lower House. And new registrations mainly concerned a no. Another reason that was mentioned there was a reduction in confidence in the health system. Patients and next of kin are going to wonder who will get priority: the dying patient or the people on the waiting list? If the government decides and next of kin don't have a say, that risk is extra high. Doctors fear that this may affect confidence in doctors if they are only expected to decide whether or not to take it out. Professor Friele van NIVEL repeatedly drew attention to this risk at the expert meeting. The NTS considers the importance of public trust to be essential. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of subsidiarity. The principle of subsidiarity forces us to consider whether there are any other means to reach more donors than the present legislative proposal. The initiator and others claim that everything has been done and only ADR remains as an opportunity to increase the number of registrations and thus donors. But is that really true? After all, much depends on the attitude and skill of the professional. Precisely the unfortunate way of approaching next of kin is often a reason to say no. At least a recent PhD research at Radboud University shows this. A 2014 pilot by the Dutch Transplantation Foundation shows that there is still a profit to be made by improving the quality of communication in hospitals. By better communication, 50% more permission was given. Only about half of the hospitals have implemented this method. NIVEL's research also shows that much improvement is still possible in the area of social awareness and much remains to be learned from other European countries. General practitioners don't have a formal role in this yet. In Canada, a study is under way to explicitly involve general practitioners in motivating people to define their choice. Many municipalities are not active. In other countries people are contacted when they collect the driver's license or passport from the municipality. In the U.S., you can get your driver's license to make sure you're a donor. We don't have anything like that in the Netherlands. There are also no leaflets in libraries, sports clubs, pharmacy or at the GP. ADR does want to make municipalities more active, and that is a good thing, but that is not happening to date or hardly happening to date. One in six 18-year-olds never heard of organ donation at school. I myself have constantly asked people over the past year whether and if so when they were last approached by the government about the donor registry. By far, most people can't remember being approached and others remember being approached long ago. People who provide information note a great ignorance in the country about the donor register and organ donations. Mr. Chairman. Again, there is no discussion about the need. But can you really say that everything has been tried to get more registrations? In addition, there are opportunities for increasing donor bodies elsewhere. Until recently, organs were exchanged one-on-one, internationally via Eurotransplant. It's the art of finding a good match between donor and recipient. In the meantime, triangular combinations are sometimes made. The risk of a suitable donor is already considerably increased. Thought is now also about a quadrangle swap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mrs Martens, I will try to ask my question correctly. You are, of course, in a fairly impossible position, because you have a group in which you are going to be elected on an individual basis. You have an argument and you have a number of criticisms which I might also mention in part in my speech. You make comments about the organisation, about the information and the communication about organ donation at the moment. Of course, a lot of things have been published about this, to the advantage and to the detriment of it, but has this issue now been discussed in your group? I'm kind of looking for that. Your group is going to choose on an individual basis, but what are the discussions that you have had within your group so that we can get a little insight into them and feel about them? For example, has the issue of how to be informed and communicated been a point of discussion in your group, or is this your observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u32	No, Mr President, in reply to Mr Don, I say that my input has, of course, been discussed in detail in the group. That's where all these things come up. It's up to everyone to decide what weighs the hardest. But these are data.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u34	I'll be very brief in the light of time. I understand it's a discussion point. Have there been any other issues that could be said: that is what we in the Group are talking about? Now you're talking about the information and communication, the pros and cons. You also have critical comments, but of course everything has been tried in the past. I don't hear you mention that. Are there any other issues that have been the subject of what really happened in your group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u35	Certainly, and I can reassure Mr Don, because my story goes on. So then the other points come to the fore. There's no doubt that something's been done. You may wonder if good things have been done and if the good things have been done right. That, of course, always remains the question and the weighting that is up to everyone. I would like to move on to subsidiarity. It has already been discussed by the PvdA Group. There are new techniques in development that offer hopeful prospects, especially for kidney patients. They're mostly on the waiting list. The Netherlands has a large number of living kidney donors, people who donate during life. Early this year was published on an initiative of some Dutch hospitals. They have deployed specialised kidney teams, who talk to kidney patients and their surroundings. It was to be read that 30 patients could receive a kidney transplant in January of this year alone. Because it is mainly about living donors, the chances of life are also greater than with postmortem donations. International research has shown that when a system such as ADR is introduced, the number of living donors is decreasing. With the introduction of ADR, you risk jeopardising this large increase in kidney donors. In short, there are still many measures and interventions to increase the number of registrations and organ donations. Many opt-out countries have a higher number of donors. The Dutch Association for Donor Medicine writes: "When you look at the countries with the highest number of donors, it is particularly striking that these countries are doing more communication, promotion and information." By the way, of course, there are opt-in countries that perform better than opt-out countries. For example, the United States is performing better than Belgium. There are also opt-in countries where there is a rising trend. Is it true that these measures can only be implemented after the introduction of ADR? Can you say ADR is the only option left? Or can such measures also be effective within the framework of the current Organ Donation Act? After all, there is always talk of the need for accompanying policies. Can we do that under the current law? Mr President, I would like to say a few words about feasibility. Is the law enforceable? With regard to the obligation in the legislative proposal on the obligation to amend and to make it plausible by next of kin the following: About making it plausible. If a person is registered as a donor or has no objection, there is no legal obligation to consult next of kin. A doctor can then proceed to organ donation. However, relatives can contact the doctor on their own initiative if they are convinced that the patient did not want to be a donor. It is about the patient and not about any problems of the next of kin, as was mentioned earlier. Survivors must then make this plausible to the doctor in that difficult situation. ADR does not provide any criteria for this. It is up to the doctor to determine whether it has been made sufficiently plausible. The Council of State stated in its letter of 2 December: "It is not clear what is being asked of the next of kin and that, given the open wording, differences will easily arise between the way in which different doctors implement that criterion. It is also unclear how the action of a doctor can be assessed in relation to that criterion." This is an undesirable situation for both the doctor and the next of kin. In addition, such an inescapable arbitrariness or, if you like, legal inequality may arise. Here too, confidence in the system is at stake. Who will the doctor give priority to? To the patient who's dying or to the patient who's waiting for an organ? Doctors have indicated that in practice they will always have respect for relatives if they have major emotional objections. The provision relating to making it plausible will not be implemented in this way. Then there's the conspiracy. The bill gives doctors the duty to check whether a patient was willing at the time of registration. Doctors differ as to whether this is feasible. Some, including the KNMG, argue that this part of the bill is unfeasible, so de facto impossible, especially in case of registration with no objection. Others argue that this can be done simply and is already practiced through protocols at the moment. The Council of State stated in its letter of 2 December: "The proposed obligation of petition is formulated in such a general way that, before being able to take out organs, a doctor should always check whether there was willfulness at the time of registration in the donor register. This makes the proposed ADR decision-making system considerably more complex." It is also a question of whether working with a presumed consent can be workable for doctors, because it is a break with the WGBO. It stipulates that doctors are only allowed to work with informed consent. It is clear that the feasibility is at stake, including the enforcement. I now come to the final part of my speech. The impact of the restriction of the two fundamental rights on public and health confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u36	You say that the proposed system is an infringement of the WGBO because it must be informed consent. How do you see that again with the people who have made no choice at all and in which the family decides? Do you even call that informed consent? Is that even in line with the WGBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u37	In any case, it's not the government's decision, it's not the doctor's decision. It has already been pointed out in the discussion that there is a substantial difference. I said that I arrived at the last part of my speech, namely confidence in the government and in health care. The Council speaks of a serious infringement of the right to inviolability of the body. Although there are more countries with an opt-out system, there are no other countries where the government registers its supposed wish on behalf of a citizen. Citizens who are not registered are supposed to be donors, but in most countries, in contrast to what ADR proposes, the next of kin should always be consulted, including in Wales, for example. ADR is based on the principle of silence. It is a route that some of our group has very serious objections to. By registering on behalf of a person, the government intervenes too deeply, in the private lives of citizens, so these members of the political groups find. Other members of the group consider the possibility of more donors to be so important that they consider an infringement of the constitutional law of the inviolability of the body to be justified. What impact will the introduction of the ADR have on trust in the government that it protects the fundamental rights of each individual? The initiator states that it is easy for people to make a conscious choice. But is it that simple? Apart from Article 8 of the ECHR which implies that you have no obligation to make a choice, the question is whether it is so easy for everyone to make a conscious choice. Is it really mainly negligence, as some say? And don't you have the right to doubt it? Questions in relation to death are not easy for everyone. On the site of the NTS you can read that for a lot of Dutch donation is a touching subject. Not everyone can handle this, let alone make it negotiable. Research by the SCP showed that not everyone is capable of self-direction. Fortunately, more and more attention is being paid to this. Recently, the WRR report Knowing is not yet done. This shows that the government overestimates the self-reliance of citizens and that this concerns not only vulnerable people such as non-literate and low-literate. It speaks of a difference between what the government expects of citizens and what they can actually handle. The initiativer rightly wants people to make a conscious choice. Good information, so that people understand the information and the consequences of non-reactions sufficiently, is crucial. In the opinion of our group, the legislator has a special duty to protect, in particular, the most vulnerable in society. The consequence of the proposed ADR is that a large group of people, unable to understand the information and consequences of non-reacting and unable to respond to the call, will automatically become donors. Therefore, some do not speak of active donor registration, but of automatic donor registration. Think of the 500,000 people who do not appear in the basic registration, the 800,000 unskilled as well as the non-literate and low-lettered. According to Pharos, these are about 2.5 million people in total. The Council of State rightly points out that the right to inviolability of the body and the right to self-determination must be prevented from becoming illusory in advance. Surely it can't be that we would de facto gain the profits from this group of vulnerable people? When it comes to trust in the government, we have recently been alerted to a risk that has not been mentioned before. A professor of medical information systems stated that the registration of no objection by the citizen could be seen or could be considered as "fraud by the government" because an expression is registered that someone has not done. Members would like to receive a response from the government and the initiator. Finally. As has been said, our group is very motivated to consider ways of increasing the number of registrations and donors. A number of possibilities have already been mentioned in our contribution. If you know what someone's been after, it's gonna help the next of kin. Encouraging early decision-making in peace is something that our group wholeheartedly supports. On a deathbed it is very uncomfortable to discuss such a complicated question at such an emotional moment. Mr. Chairman. Within our group there are different views on the need for this bill. Some of the group is sympathetic to the legislative proposal and some have reservations of principle or of proportionality and subsidiarity. Each stands for the consideration of whether he/she considers it legitimate, two rights that are constitutionally established for every Dutch citizen, to limit for the sake of obtaining more donors and registrations. In addition to the need for patients and their environment, the assessment will include the need, proportionality, subsidiarity and feasibility, as well as the risks associated with public and health confidence. Mr. Chairman. Our group therefore awaits with interest the reaction of the government and the initiator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martens. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate Mr Van Kesteren on his maiden speech this morning. Mr. Chairman. My group would first of all like to express its respect for the initiator, who has worked with great dedication on the issue of organ donation in the Netherlands. We appreciate her attempt to increase the number of donations for patients who are waiting for an organ. We agree that we should do everything possible and responsible to increase the number of donors, so that no patients die on the waiting list. Let me first say that my party, my group, is positive about organ donation. In Christian ethics, which is important to us, it is a virtue when people commit their lives to another. Organ donation is seen by many as an act of charity. However, this is accompanied by a sense of responsibility for one's own body. The body is not just a bit transitory or secondary, but of intrinsic value. God's gift to us, if one wishes. People are stewards of their own bodies and have good care to take care of them. Donating an organ is literally a gift taken from yourself. That must be considered, conscious and with a clear motive. Because we ourselves are our bodies and because our bodies have their own value to ourselves, giving up our organs must be a choice of the person himself. The own consideration that one makes in it, as a whole of one's own feelings, beliefs, thoughts, demands space and respect. We did not have to give up our organs, although many good motives, including moral ones, can be formulated. If we do, it must be our own choice, because it concerns our own body. Whether this is before or after we die is not decisive, as has always been recognised. Mr. Chairman. The debate we are having is loaded. We act in the spirit of personal considerations and interests, both of patients looking for a new organ and of people who are eligible as donors. What can the government do in this sphere of personal interests? Can she make a decision for people when it comes to what happens to their own bodies? This debate affects sensitive relations between citizens and government, and essential individual fundamental rights about physical integrity and the inviolability of the body. Should mandatory legislation be used to increase the number of donors? In our country, a consent system for organ donation has been deliberately chosen from the very beginning. You're a donor if you've explicitly said yes. The change in the decision-making system proposed in this initiative law represents a major change of course. The introduction of the ADR makes us switch to an opt-out system. Those who do not register as donors themselves, but who do not respond to calls to do so, are considered donors. So people are in principle donors, even if they have not given explicit consent. After death, there is a law-backed permission to take out organs. Such a radical change in the way consent is obtained requires strong justification and is also indicated. Introduction of the ADR would be the only way still open to increasing the number of donors, as stated. Within the current system, the possibilities are exhausted. Of course, I have also learned that countries with an opt-out system show a better result than countries with a consent system. That doesn't have to be surprising, of course. But the crucial factor is not in the decision-making system itself, as it is always said and has been argued here again this morning, but in a combination of factors, including the organisation of health care, a small number of family refusals and the quality of communication. On the website of the Nederlandse Vereniging voor Donor Geneeskunde you can read that there is no causal link between the aforementioned decision systems and the number of organs available. These doctors believe that the real profit is obtained from information. The claim that the ADR is the only way to increase the number of donors is, therefore, accompanied by the necessary comments at the expert meeting and in debates, and the Minister, not this minister in person, nor does the previous Minister, Mr O'Donnell, take on board this claim. I should like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. The KNMG and others always point to the importance of reducing the number of family refusals as a determining factor. If the ADR is not the determining factor, and there is profit to be gained from reducing the large number of family refusals, then the question is whether we should go along with this proposal. I will come back to this at the end of my speech, but I would like to point out that the strong justification for leaving the current authorisation system is less robust than it may seem. Mr. Chairman. There is a major problem at the heart of the proposal, and we all know it. It's already gone through a lot. The number of registrations will undoubtedly increase with a covering ADR system, but part of it will not be known whether people have actually become donors themselves and with full conviction. After all, those who do not respond are considered to have no objection to donation after death. Then there's supposed to be agreement. People who have never given explicit consent are deemed to agree to the removal of their organs. If you don't choose, you'll be chosen. Here one's autonomy appears to be something gradual and at a very convenient point, namely what happens to one's own body. Do we have to increase the number of donors by such a predicament? People who fail to respond for whatever reason, do not read public sector information or overlook the whole issue and then do nothing, are also going to increase the number of registrations for organ donations. For our group, that is a bridge too far. The fact that the government sanctions this supposed consent by law makes the situation as a whole questionable. I will not use big words about our body as state property, but using the government to obtain this "harvest of organs" is a slippery path. Now those in favour say that it's not that bad on balance with this compulsion. People can unsubscribe, can't they? And the next of kin are there, aren't they? My point is that we must not assume that every citizen is well informed and rationally comes to an informed choice. Many people do not know what to do with the issue, cannot make a decision, so they remain registered as donors, without it being clear whether they want to do so. It is feared that this will happen in vulnerable groups. Also, people die without any next of kin who can act for them in consultation with the doctors. Are we making so much progress with the ADR system? Yes, the number of registered donors is likely to increase, but also the uncertainty as to whether people who are excluded from organs have chosen to do so. If there's no next of kin in the rifle that has to make anything plausible, and we've just heard how complicated that can be, then this goes on. Is this desirable for doctors, for society, for the next of kin? Will this donor practice not undermine confidence in such a way as to reduce donor readiness? What exactly is the point of this ADR system? I would like to hear a reflection on this point from the applicant. Mr. Chairman. My group considers it very important to clarify the interpretation of Article 11 of the Constitution in relation to this legislative proposal. The Council of State pointed out that the law infringes the right to the inviolability of the body with the assumption of consent. People have the right to own their bodies. Now this right has the character of a right of defence intended to ensure that the public authorities do not infringe it. That's what's gonna happen here. Now, of course, it is said that the inviolability of the body is not absolute and that the legislator can limit it. The law would do that. That observation is correct, but it is also too formal. When we look at what happens materially, the right to have one's own body is taken over if people do not actively exercise it themselves. But does it fit in with a right of defence that there may be an infringement, because and once the owner of that right has not defended himself against that infringement? Does this fit in with the Constitutionalist's intention? Can an infringement be committed when it is not clear whether the person has been informed? Citizens should be able to enjoy that full right to inviolability of the body without requiring any action on their part. This is a very important point, I think, and I would like to hear a clear answer from the Minister, also because we here have to interpret and interpret the Constitution as legislators and there can also be all kinds of consequences for other laws. Mr. Chairman. My group considers the proposed route to increase organ donors to be dubious. Organ donation must be voluntary and cannot be enforced. Others cannot have one's organs without consent, while the person concerned has not said anything about them. The control of one's own body must remain intact. That is a matter of principle. Let's not drag this Rubicon over. However, increasing the number of donors is and remains a pressing issue and an important goal of health care. We too want to work to bring that goal closer. As indicated, experts consider it uncertain whether the ADR system will in itself lead to more donors. The organisation of health care, promotion and information, as well as road safety and the culture of dying, play a role and would also determine the differences between European countries. The desired increase should therefore be based on an increase in the real willingness of citizens. That's what we need to focus on. The important thing is how people feel about the issue. Organ donation is ultimately an existential issue. It forces people to think about their own death and vulnerability, about the meaning of one's own body to themselves and others, about the experience of dying and saying goodbye. Anyone who conducts this conversation only in medical-technical terms will not get people with all their feelings and thoughts on this subject across the line. The discussion about organ donation should therefore start not only in hospitals, but already at home, at school or at the GP. The debate must be held in society, by people in society, preferably from the bottom up. With all sympathy for the initiativer's struggle, we are trying to take a different path because the risk of error is too great within the ADR system. So let us do everything we can to help people who need an organ, but in our group's view it is really best if organ donation remains a gift that someone voluntarily decides to do. I look forward to the answers of the government and the applicant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you for your clear and constructive speech, Mr. Kuiper. A motion was tabled by Agnes Kant in 2005 following the second evaluation of the current Organ Donation Act. That motion proposed an ADR system. Your party was one of the advocates of that motion. I have looked back in the debates on this subject. Mrs Huizinga spoke at that time. She chose the same position as you are now taking, namely that the individual decides and that it must be a gift, but with the understanding that she could agree with the stimulus in the motion at the time, which is also in the current system. You're taking a different position now. Of course, a lot has happened. But you're now moving away from the stimulus that's in the current system. Can you explain something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u42	Sure. Even then, this was a fundamental frontier for the Christian Union: people themselves must agree to the donation of their organs. This was already the case in the debate at the time, as you say. Only, the Christian Union did not want that coercion, and certainly not by law. The Christian Union asked for individual consent. In the debate, however, the spokesperson indicated that we can do everything in our power to urge people to register as donors, but voluntarily. Then it was also said: let us do everything we can to lay it down with the people. At that time, proposals were also put forward as: if you come to the town hall because you need a passport or a driver's license, let there be a leaflet at that time in which people are tied to the heart to register. Some people may think that this is already far-reaching, so that a government not only provides information, but also insists that people register as donors. That has always remained the position of the Christian Union in the debates in the Lower House, then and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u43	I'm trying to get a little clearer as to whether it's a fundamental or a proportional consideration for the Christian Union. In the case of the SGP, it is very clear in principle and in the case of the CDA, I can tell that the proportionality requirement is important. At the beginning of your speech, you made it clear that this is a matter of principle: you do not want this Rubicon to be transferred. At the same time, you say, 'we are going another way, we want to emphasise that voluntary nature, but we do want to encourage people'. Assuming that after a certain period of application of all these measures, it has to be concluded that it does not help any further and that it may still be necessary to take this step in order to achieve more transplants, can the Christian Union take a different view? Perhaps you could give us some explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mrs Strik has just assessed that it is a matter of principle for us. The issue is that people who do not decide on the use of their bodies cannot be eligible for organ donation and that others do not decide on it. It's gonna stay that way. It is of course crucial that one has to say something about what is happening to his own body completely and consciously. If that didn't happen, you don't have permission, even government sanctioned permission, to take out organs. So that matter stays. You also mention the other. Then there is the question: is it really effective? Several spokesmen have already said that this has different dimensions. Is it really true that this is the only thing that will have effect? Are there any other things to do with information? I gave the example that the Christian Union has given that people are urged to register as donors. We can still see those alternatives, that alternative path. And then, of course, the big question is whether it will lead to more donors, but also what it does with confidence in the system. We can't say for sure. I can also understand that under the heading 'effectiveness'. On that front, of course, there is an objection that you do not know and that you are doing something so far-reaching that we actually object to in principle. That's our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u45	Very briefly, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u46	Then I conclude from Mr Kuiper's answer that it is mainly a matter of principle, even if all the other conditions were met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u47	That's where it starts, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr Kuiper says that, as far as he is concerned, it is a matter of principle that people should decide for themselves whether they want to be donors; others should not have them. Are you saying that you think that the current system has gone too far in principle, because family members regularly have access to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u49	I don't think so. I think you can really talk about this kind of thing with each other and that it is also a responsibility that you can share with each other, for example in the circle of the family. On the contrary, I think it is very good that conversations are being held in families and families so that the relatives in a specific dying situation know what the wish and thoughts of the dying person have been. That already indicates a shared responsibility. This is about a certain role for the government. The government then sanctions legislation in the situation where the person himself has not said anything. Of course, that remains the big problem here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u50	It is not quite clear to me what it would be like for you if people who have died had their own consent not to be recorded and then the family decided. You say quite clearly: someone really must have chosen explicitly. I conclude from that that you think that the current system is actually a step too far in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u51	No, then I think the current system is better, because there is now a clear role for the next of kin in the conversation with that doctor, even in the situation where it is not quite clear what the deceased wanted. What will happen now in the new proposal? Imagine if someone who hasn't actively reported and has automatically fallen under "no objection" will die; he's in the hospital and he's brain dead. There is talk with the family and then it turns out that there was "no objection," but also that the family does not know exactly what the deceased himself wanted. Then there's a doctor who says he's authorized to take out organs. That's an extremely confusing situation, isn't it? You saddle the next of kin with it who really don't know what to do anymore. Then the current system is even clearer than that, because the doctor is going to say that the legislation allows him to take out organs and he asks: what do you think? That's gonna be very complicated. So what good is that gonna do us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u52	Finally, Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u53	I will deal with this in my own contribution. Maybe I can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you again, Mr. Kuiper. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
