ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the oral questions. We begin with Mr Van Ojik's question on behalf of GroenLinks to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security about the report that the residence permit appears to be a financial noose for people who are subject to the general pardon. I call Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. In 2007, 27,000 asylum seekers in the Netherlands qualified for a general pardon. Now, eleven years later, about half of this group, 13,000 people, have still not been able to acquire Dutch citizenship, while many of them want nothing more. 2,500 people from this group of general ministers now have an indefinite stay and more than 10,000 people from this group have to apply for renewal every five years. My questions are about the latter group, because applying for an extension for five years has always been free so far, but as of this year it costs €401. At least, that cost €401, but that amount has now been reduced to €355. My questions to the Secretary of State are the following, Madam President. Why has it been decided that this service, which has so far been free, should now cost €400 or €350? When was this even decided? I ask this because the people who are concerned are very late, namely in the last month, in mid-March, about the proposed empty levy, as it is called, properly informed. Why were they informed so late? And why is the House of Representatives, as far as I can tell, not informed at all? Finally. Why is the amount to be paid at a fee first fixed at €401 and then at €355? How does that amount relate to other fees for similar licences, which are often significantly lower than EUR 100 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, I sent your Chamber the answers to the written questions put by Mr Van Ojik earlier on this matter. In that I indicated that indeed a large proportion of the people who were then granted a so-called RANOV licence are popularly known as the people of the General Pardon for the third time this year. Five years ago, on the occasion of the first extension, it was decided, because of the special nature of the authorization granted, to grant that extension without an empty levy. But it is now more than ten years since this group was granted a residence permit. I therefore believe that there is no longer any reason to exempt this group from the levying of fees. Therefore, the normal fees apply to all migrants who wish to renew a regular residence permit. Mr Van Ojik's first question is why it has been decided to charge €401 and €355 respectively. The answer is that this service costs. This will cost anyone who wishes to renew a temporary residence permit. Then there is the question of how this relates to other fees. This is the rate for a temporary permit. We know other rates of tax that is equal to the way out for a large part of the people who are involved in this type of permit for an indefinite period of time or the EU residence permit for long-term residents. These costs are €161. Our first indications are that a significant part of this group would also be eligible for such a permit, but they should apply for it. I suspect they didn't do that so far because they thought that the permit was free five years ago, maybe it's free again. But that's the route. In order to do so, you have to meet the requirements of integration, but it seems to me only natural that eleven years after the granting of the permit people should comply with them. Then there is the question of when this has been decided. Five years ago, the decision to release the group once more was a unique decision. It has never been decided otherwise that this would be for eternity. So this time we're just using the normal fees. This is already mentioned on the IND website at the beginning of January; later in February as well. People also had a letter announcing this three months before the expiry of the permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	Suppose you have a family with two children and you suddenly have to pay four times €355 for a service that has been free so far and about which you have been informed by letter in mid-March, if I understand correctly, that you will have to pay for it in the future. The Secretary of State says it was already on the IND's website in January. I imagine it's not a day-to-day run to the IND's website to see if there might still be a hidden price increase in applying for a permit somewhere. To be honest, I think it is a very short deadline for the people whose Secretary of State says they have a way out. They can apply for authorisation for an indefinite period, provided that they meet certain integration requirements. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State the following very specifically. What if people say they want to do this? Will the Secretary of State give them the opportunity to do so now? Is there, for the period when they apply for such a residence permit for an indefinite period of time and are, of course, willing to take an integration test, that it is well organized, because that is where the necessary change has been made, the possibility for the State Secretary to temporarily suspend the levy of €355? This can be done, for example, for a period of one year or one and a half years, which is reasonable for people to be able to settle in. In this way, people do not suddenly face such high burdens, which, although they do produce something for the government, benefit no one else, I believe. Perhaps in abundance, I agree with the Secretary of State that it would be fine for people to say that they are going to take an integration test and that they have a financial advantage. But then people must have the time and opportunity to choose that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	The question begins with Mr Van Ojik's statement that one now has to pay €355 for a service that was always free. The service wasn't free. The service has always cost money. By way of exception, this group was once again exempted from the extension in 2013 due to its special character, but the service was never free. If you have a fixed-term residence permit, it seems to me that it is people's own responsibility to look into the conditions that apply to it. Mr Van Ojik asked whether this group could once again be involved in the integration process. We don't do that for any group that's involved. I would remind you once again that this group was granted a RANOV licence in 2007, because it was already five years and sometimes even longer in the Netherlands and would already be well integrated. How much coulance do we have to have with each other? For this group one can apply for a permit for an indefinite period if one meets the integration requirements. The time when this licence is applied for is decisive. At that time, therefore, the integration requirements must be met. This also applies to a significant part of this group, which has not yet done so. The people who are not involved will have to apply for a temporary permit. They can apply for a stronger right of residence at any time they meet the requirements for integration. But I don't intend to add extra coulance to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Secretary of State. And thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Then we'll go to the second question. It belongs to Mr. Raemakers of D66. Oh, Mr. Groothuizen has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	One supplementary question to the Secretary of State in line with this. One of the options that people who have ever been pardoned is, of course, naturalization. We recently had a report from the Ombudsman on this, which said that there were several obstacles. Can the Secretary of State state state what progress has been made on the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	I remember answering Parliamentary questions some time ago. Each time it is assumed that people experience obstacles, because they cannot get the documents needed for naturalization. We have a country-by-country overview of what is and is not feasible; this is also on the IND website. If those involved have actually done everything in their power and have gone through all these steps and are unable to obtain documents, then it is possible to initiate a procedure for the need for proof. In practice, we often find people saying that they have gone through all the steps, but they cannot prove that. In that sense, I think the procedure is perfectly clear. It is specified by country on the IND's website. I know that sometimes the Ombudsman feels differently, but we have found no basis to say that we still need to change all kinds of things. As far as I know, I have already informed the Chamber in response to written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik.
