ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	I am going to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State to trade-K. Mr Wassenberg has a question about the claims about the company Chemours. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chemours chemist went wrong again on Friday, for the umpteenth time. This time it was not GenX, but the substance perfluoroisobutene or pfib, which was emitted. This is an extremely toxic substance that is released from some production processes and can cause death even in very small quantities. The substance is on the list of chemical weapons of the United Nations. It's a poison gas. According to Chemours, the leakage of perfluoroisobutene does not need to be reported from May, as it would then be covered by another regulator. But that is denied by the province of South Holland. It says that such leakages should continue to be reported in the future. Chemours leaks a poison gas, and then a wells-nothing game breaks loose between the company and the province. That's worrying and really terrifying. Therefore, the following questions to the Secretary of State. How can a substance on the UN chemical weapons list be released from production processes in the Netherlands? Can the Secretary of State stop the production of perfluoroisobutene, even if it is only a by-product? Is perfluoroisobutene on the list of substances of high concern? And if not, shouldn't it be on that as soon as possible? Or is the inclusion on list 2 of banned UN poison gases not sufficient for a ban? Should leaks of perfluoroisobutene be reported in the future or not? Can the Secretary of State clarify the control of this company? Is it gonna change or not? Finally: Chemours exposes the environment, man, animal, nature and environment, time and time again to danger. When will this end, I'll ask the Secretary of State? What else needs to be done before this company's permit can be revoked?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mr Wassenberg for asking for clarification on this point. It is important that there are no concerns and doubts about the monitoring of this plant and the release of this substance, because it is indeed a rotten substance. In order not to contribute to further confusion, I should like to turn to Mr Wassenberg's questions in reverse. The competent authority for these emissions is the province of South Holland. On 1 July last year, the supervision on behalf of the province passed from the Zuid-Holland Zuid Environment Service to a specialist supervisor of Brzo companies, the DCMR Environmental Service Rijnmond. This meant that last year there was a transition to an even more specialised service. This is due to the legal obligation that the supervision of companies handling very dangerous substances is also carried out by truly specialised supervisors, by one of the six specifically designated Brzo environment services. The DCMR is one of these, and perhaps the most important one, I say without wanting to do the other. There is therefore no forthcoming change in supervision or a weakening of supervision. No, last year it was actually tightened up. And the province of South Holland is therefore the competent authority here. In fact, the company is under enhanced supervision of the competent authority. Part of this is that small unusual events should also be reported simply. Actually, we can say that the fact that this has been reported shows that the enhanced supervision also works. It was a small amount, but it's really rocky stuff. So it's very good that it's been reported after all. Therefore, following this notification, it is also examined whether there is any reason for further action towards the company. Reports that the enhanced supervision would lapse are incorrect. There's really no reason for that. Then there is the question of whether it is a very worrying substance and whether it can be stopped as a by-product. We do indeed have a list of very worrying substances. The aim is therefore to examine whether a production process can at some point without this very worrying substance. But this is a product that is released in another production process. So it's not something that's added, it's something that comes out. There is another obligation. It's called the obligation to minimize. So this company too is obliged to try to minimize the production of this substance in its production process. In any case, this company must ensure that it is handled in a very good way in all other ways, so that there can be no leakage. The province looks for problems there; the company is under enhanced supervision. Small quantities of this particular dangerous substance must indeed be reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Secretary of State says it's a minor incident, but it's a very dangerous substance. But it's such an extremely dangerous substance that it's on, as I said, the list of substances at the Chemical Weapons Convention. Also, of course, in a very small event with a very dangerous substance, several molecules are already deadly, so to speak. We are talking about a substance that is deadly at 2 ppm, so two particles in a million particles. Then you're talking about a thousandths of percent. Then you can't talk about a minor incident, can you? Well, you can say that's very serious, can't you? And you'd have to adjust your policy to that, wouldn't you? My question is this. If this kind of poison gas is leaked, what will happen to stop this company? Because I started my story with it as well: this is the umpteenth time that something goes wrong. We can talk about Chemours almost every month. What needs to be done to really put an end to this? You can always say: we check and then things are going well again, because look how well these controls work. But that's daddy and wet. It's mopping with the tap open. Next month we will be here again in a manner of speaking. I hope not, but I'm afraid so. What needs to be done to withdraw this company's permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	There is a very clear answer to the latter: that is to the province of South Holland, not to us. We are not the competent authority. But I share very much with Mr Wassenberg that I do not want to be back with him again next week or next month because something is going wrong with this company again. That's why this company is also under enhanced supervision. I think there's every reason for that. I was talking about a little incident. No, it was a small emission. I agree with Mr Wassenberg that this is extremely worrying. You don't want this stuff in the air. Therefore there is every reason not only to say: oh, it was a small amount and perhaps there was no immediate danger. No, you have to make sure that there isn't a large amount that could be a threat to this company that can leak. That's why there's been tighter surveillance. Therefore, there is also additional research to see if this event, which has been reported under the enhanced supervision, does not need to be reported in other cases, so it is really due to the enhanced supervision that we now know about it that gives rise to further measures to be taken by the company. So we're looking at it very seriously. Mr Wassenberg is right: it is not covered by the official definition of 'Very Concernful Substances', but of course we are all concerned about this substance. That's perfectly right. So everything is also focused on sharpening it. In fact, I think that we should take a generic look at whether there is any knowledge about these substances that we can unlock, or whether there are experts who can help us think about what other measures such a company could take to prevent risks with these substances. We don't want them in the environment. What we can do about it must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	The Secretary of State says it's not on the list of Very Concerning Substances. What does it have to do to get it up there? I said, it's a poison gas. If even placing it on the UN list of banned poison gases is not enough to place it on the list of Highly Concerning Substances, then what is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	It's really purely a definition issue. We're not different at all. If it is an input substance, it comes on a list of Very Concerning Substances. If it is an output substance, so if it is a waste product, it is on a list of substances subject to the requirement to minimise. It actually means the same thing, but it comes on a different list because it is released in the production process and is not an input substance. If you use this substance as input into your product, it is on the ZZS list, the list of Very Concerning Substances. But since it's an output product, it's covered by a different list. That's actually the only difference. But this is a worrying substance, and we must do everything in our power to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	It is good that Mr Wassenberg raises this point, because we talk very often about Chemours, and not in the best way. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. She states: we are not the competent authority. How intensive do you have contact with the province of Zuid-Holland? This is really a troubled child of this Chamber. So I'd like to get a little more insight into that from her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs Van Brenk is quite right: he is a troubled child. That is why we regularly discuss it here. Of course, we also have very close contact with the province of Zuid-Holland. They are the competent authority, so they are the ones who grant the licence and, for example, in the case of a revision permit, keep everything under review. That is their task; we cannot accept it. But of course we have very close contact with the province of South Holland. We understand the concerns of the Chamber very well. I have it myself when I hear of such a leak of such dust. You just don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u13	As I said, it's a very strange message. Chemours says we don't have to report it. Fortunately, we now hear that it is under enhanced supervision of that specialist environmental service. But I'm worried why Chemours would say that. Why do they say that we do not have to report it, and that is no longer our supervision? How does the communication between Chemours and that competent authority go? Is that gonna be okay? And is it sufficiently clear that there really needs to be a report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u14	It's been reported. That's because they're under enhanced surveillance. So apparently they do, even though they say in the press they don't have to report it. That's why we're talking about this today. So they're under enhanced surveillance. This is the kind of thing they have to report. Why they make other statements about this is also a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u15	This is not the first time a puff of a very, very toxic substance has been released at Chemours. That was already the case in August. I hear the Secretary of State say the company is under enhanced supervision. I hear the Secretary of State say that there is a minimum obligation. Actually, I want to hear what we're going to do about this substance not being released as a by-product in the production processes of GenX. Is there a plan for phasing out these by-products?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u16	If there is a minimum requirement then you have to do what you can to minimize the additional production of that substance. That is generally the rule that applies, not only to this substance but to a lot of other substances. Where you can't prevent that yet because it means that you have to stop making teflon altogether, that minimum requirement applies. That means you have to make sure that what's released doesn't come into the environment. There is a permit to do so, which includes the conditions that then apply. I share with Mrs Kröger that, of course, you would prefer to have as little of these substances as possible. I would find it very logical if, just as we are looking at whether there is a possibility of phasing out very worrying substances, we could also examine with each other whether we can generate the knowledge to have that possibility when releasing these very worrying substances in production. That's all covered by the obligation to minimize. It is a very right point of attention, and we should really try to get that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr President, last night I was in Sliedrecht and I also heard this concern. I heard in particular that the citizens are wondering whether they can trust the government to do the right thing. That is where the point was made of substances that are not yet on lists, which we later find to be completely wrong. What can the Secretary of State say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u18	This is a very important point that Mr Van der Staaij raises. People actually expect the government to make sure the living environment is safe. This is what they expect from the European government, from the national government, from the provincial government and from a local government. Of course, you never know everything by definition, but we need to make sure that we get to the front of this discussion and not know every time afterwards whether or not something was worrying. That is why I would like RIVM to draw up a list of substances which have not yet been identified as a very worrying substance, but on which we must be extra alert. I hope that in this dossier we can get more to the front, that we will go more to safe by design. So that we design the processes in such a way that they are inherently safer and that we do everything we can to get more to the front, so that people know that there is an immediate check-up or concern before it gets out of hand. That is a step I would very much like to take. I come to this point with a letter to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. One not insignificant detail to avoid confusion about very worrying substances and the obligation to minimise them. There is one list of very worrying substances. Only if you take care of it at the front, it is covered, but if it is about a by-product that comes out, it is covered by the obligation to minimize. But in the end they are all on that one list of very worrying substances. I thought it was important to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u19	When's the letter headed for the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u20	For the summer, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to put a few things back in there, so we're going more to the front instead of the back. That's what we're working on. That's why I brought the letter. The Chamber knows that this has absolutely my full attention and that I am really looking at how we can tighten up the system to let people know that the government wants to ensure as much as possible a safe living environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u21	So for the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u22	Yes, Mr. Chairman. For this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. Now I'm going to the last question.
