ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, on behalf of the PvdA, for her questions to the Minister for Defence, whom I would also like to welcome. The Minister of Defence will replace the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The questions are about the current situation in Yemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the years of war in Yemen, there is a new low and a new humanitarian catastrophe which the UN believes directly threatens 250,000 people and which means that 18 million people can no longer receive food and medicines. Because, Mr President, the United Arab Emirates are planning to attack the port city of Hodeidah sometime in the next 24 hours. That port city is actually the only supply route for relief supplies. The United Kingdom has called on the Emirates to spare the port city and thus the people. The UN has now withdrawn people. The Netherlands has so far been silent and therefore the following questions to the Minister. What is the Netherlands doing to prevent this catastrophe? Are there any contacts with the Arab Emirates? Does the Netherlands agree with the call from other countries, such as the United Kingdom, to the Emirates not to carry out this attack? And three: what additional efforts does the Netherlands intend to make to avert this humanitarian catastrophe? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. I call the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am indeed replacing the Foreign Ministers. I fully agree with Mrs Ploumen that it is a worrying message and that there are major humanitarian and political risks involved. There have been signs of an attack on Hodeidah for a long time, as Mrs Ploumen said. So far, international pressure has actually always worked to prevent this, especially from the US and the United Kingdom. Now the coalition seems determined to continue this attack. The UN Envoy Griffiths has been given one more opportunity to prevent this by convincing the woodhis to give up Hodeidah. I'm worried about that, too. Yesterday, at the request of the United Kingdom, the Security Council met in private to discuss this threatening attack. During that consultation, the Netherlands expressed the fear that the attack would seriously undermine the political process. The Netherlands has once again called for the port, as Mrs Ploumen says, to be released and called for de-escalation. Finally, the rocket fire has been condemned by the woodhis as undermining the political process. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, a clear signal from the Security Council would have been important, but unfortunately that was not possible. I hope the Envoy can do something. They asked what the Netherlands is doing. Apart from what I just said, the BuHa-OS colleague will be in contact with the United Arab Emirates today. So we're also trying to have bilateral contact, because we're all sharing what you're saying. I don't think anyone wins anything on the fact that Hodeidah is being attacked. There are only losers, especially the citizens of Yemen, as you rightly pointed out. Look at what the UN has said: hundreds of thousands and perhaps millions of people are being hit. So we have already agreed that this should not be the case. We sincerely hope that something will come out. Perhaps tomorrow morning the Security Council will meet again. Then we'll try this again. All Dutch efforts were aimed at ensuring that the missionary's journey was as successful as possible. Our efforts are still aimed at preventing people from getting hurt in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers, but above all for the efforts made by the Netherlands. In recent years, the Netherlands has played a leading role in addressing the problems in Yemen, including human rights violations. In Saudi Arabia, the members of the Chambers Committee also discussed how the conflict could be brought to an end. So I have the next final question. Yesterday there was no clear signal from the Security Council, of which the Netherlands is a member. So what will the Netherlands do in the next 24 hours to put pressure on the other members, to get a clear signal and a condemnation of a possible attack on Hodeidah? It would have catastrophic consequences for the people of Yemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	The answer to that is: we are doing everything we can, indeed because we have played a leading role in recent years. I have just said that the colleague from BuHa-OS is going to contact us. We are closely monitoring developments, but we are also active in the Security Council, of which we are a member. We sincerely hope that Mr Griffiths, the envoy, will succeed in achieving something in the time that has been given before. We do not yet know exactly which proposal is being put forward. I sincerely hope that the Security Council will deliver tomorrow. That is what we will do. I cannot give Mrs Ploumen any guarantees, of course, but what we can do about it will be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I am going to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	It is very good that we can talk about this for a moment, even though we all have a sense of relative powerlessness. The Minister says: we do not know exactly what will be discussed in the Security Council within 24 hours. One of the advantages of being in that Security Council is that you could actively take an initiative yourself, even in the humanitarian field, to which Mrs Ploumen explicitly asked. Does the Dutch Government intend to submit proposals to the Security Council itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to correct something. I didn't say I didn't know exactly what was going to come up. Before a misunderstanding arises, I said that I don't know exactly what the envoy is coming up with. But we do play an active part in this. That's exactly what we can do. This means that we in New York today, focused on the time we have left, with similar countries, are once again striving to get Yemen on the agenda. We hope that will happen in the morning. On 18 June, UN Envoy Griffiths was supposed to brief the Council on what had resulted in his consultation, but that is not really possible anymore. I was hoping to say that this might happen more quickly now, but I do not know if it will be possible. That's what I said. We are doing everything we can to ensure that something can be laid down. That is also what we call like-minded countries. One possible part of this is the withdrawal of the woodhis from Hodeidah, at least, from the port. That could be part of it, so that perhaps something could be done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	Okay, thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time.
