ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	We will continue with oral Question Time, as usual on Tuesday afternoon. I shall first give Mr De Graaf, on behalf of the PVV, the floor for his questions to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome, on the announcement that a terrorist attack has been prevented in the Netherlands. I call Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday, seven Muslims were arrested. According to many sources, this prevented a massive attack in the Netherlands. An attack in which many people were killed and injured and many terrible consequences would have been to be regretted. Where should the attack have taken place is my first question. Of course first our great appreciation from the PVV for the work of the services and of course also the police. They've done a great job in very difficult circumstances. But these conditions are only further complicated, aggravated and made more difficult by this government. Because what is the case? The borders are still open under this government. There are thousands of sympathizers from the jihad in the Netherlands and tens of thousands in Europe or in the Schengen area. There are hundreds of violent jihadists in Europe, dozens in the Netherlands. They can all travel back and forth. They can do their destructive work here if they feel like it. There are 365 criminal investigations into 415 jihadists in the Netherlands. For the past five years, under Rutte II and therefore also Rutte III, 400,000 non-Western immigrants have entered our country. There's evidence that there are jihadists in there. According to the Minister, how many are there? How many jihadists are out there in our country? How many jihadists are innocent Dutch people exposed by this government, just when they go on a bike to work or on a bus to 4 havo? Can the Minister indicate how much work the services will have on their plate in the near future because he will leave the borders open and because Muslim terrorists will be able to enter our country undisturbed? And finally in the first term: why do the convicts who have now been arrested still have a place in the Netherlands, in Dutch society, after their symbolic punishment for exit plans or actual departures? Why is their possible Dutch passport, their nationality not taken away? And why aren't they forever removed from our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I appreciate that the PVV is right to start complimenting our services, the police and the Public Prosecutor, who have done a really good job here with great patience and precision. This led to the arrests last week and the closure of a network of terrorists. I can very well imagine that I have also immediately indicated the same day that this is causing a great deal of fear in many people. Unfortunately, these kinds of actions fit within the current threat level in the Netherlands. The threat level for terrorism is 4 on a scale of 5. This means that the chance of a terrorist attack in the Netherlands is still real. Also in the Netherlands jihadist networks operate with the intention to plan attacks in Europe. The arrests must be seen in that light. I can tell you that with the arrests, at least the concrete threat of this group has been removed. I cannot answer the question that has been asked about the taking of passports in the interests of criminal investigation. Similarly, I cannot go into the question that has been asked, however much I understand it, about exactly where this attack should have taken place. At the moment, the criminal investigation is ongoing. I would like to say once again that three suspects had already been convicted of attempting to leave. The Dutch who travel or return to a jihadist battle zone pose a threat to the safety of the Netherlands and this is recognised as such. All available resources are therefore used to assess and, where possible, eliminate the risks posed by jihadists travelling and returning. Our services remain alert. I would like to conclude by saying that I keep repeating that we must not allow ourselves to be intimidated in the Netherlands. We must realise that this level of threat is there, but our services and I also owe it to the Netherlands to ensure that we are well vigilant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	I ask a number of very clear and specific questions. I can also imagine that a single question will not be answered, but I get a very general answer from this Minister. Look, the whole people support the services. The whole people support the police. Why doesn't this minister do that? Why doesn't Prime Minister Rutte do that? He says the week after the Council of Ministers, "We live in difficult times." Those times you've caused yourself, I say to the Minister. Those times that jihadists around here cause you as a cabinet because those borders remain open and because 400,000 non-Western immigrants, among whom many jihadists are among, can enter our country. The people do not expect a general answer, I say to the Minister through the President. The people do not want to be put to sleep with a comment after the ministerial council of this minister of: yes, it is all fierce. I don't want an emotional response! I want a minister who shows the people that he is closing those borders and that he stands up for them and that the appreciation for the services comes not only from the people, but also from the minister. I want him to throw the long bar over it, that he says: until here and no further, I put a line under it, no one has the chance to make an attack here anymore! Because how else can the population, I say to the Minister, continue to live their lives normally, if you have to look over your shoulder every second when you get on the bus, get on your bike, go to school or go to a festival? This can't go on! I expect more action from this government and from the minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	I said in my first term, however, I would like to stress once again that all available means are used to assess the risks of jihadists, whether they have been emigrated, untraveled, but have been tried or returned, to remove, where possible, and to keep a very close eye on them. I have explained that I cannot answer a few specific questions. That's related to the ongoing criminal investigation. I trust your Chamber will understand that. I would like to say once again that this government sees it as a very important priority not only to keep an eye on the people with jihadist thoughts, but also to do everything possible to prevent them from taking any action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	No one is reassured in the Netherlands. No one is reassured by this. How can you say to the people like Prime Minister Rutte after the Council of Ministers and Minister Grapperhaus just now here in this Chamber 'go on with your life'? How is that possible if you leave the boundaries open? How can that be if you don't know or don't want to let on how many jihadists are being prosecuted if you don't know how many are coming in? We have had a number of examples in the Netherlands last year alone: there is one coming from Germany to do his destructive work in Amsterdam, there was a Syrian in The Hague, there was someone who wanted to blow up my party leader and there was a Pakistani who wanted to sow death and destruction. Then how can we do that, if the minister only reacts dryly of "we do everything about it, but go on with your life" and in the meantime we leave the tap open? It is mopping with the tap open, as it is now. I want more action from the Minister, I say it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	As your Chamber knows, closing borders is not a realistic solution. That means that we have to realize together that there are certain risks. This also means that this government, and this minister in particular, is responsible for paying particular attention to people who pose a possible or known risk to Dutch society, because they have jihadist or at least against our society in the case of these terrorists. That is what policy must be aimed at. I think my message is also very clear. Of course, I fully understand the shock that society experiences when such a network is rolled up, but I do not think we should let ourselves be known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	Good. Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would like to join with the compliments to the service, and I also understand that the Minister cannot go into details yet. However, I would like to know from the Minister how he keeps the Chamber informed of developments that will emerge from it, and in particular how it is possible that someone who first wanted to leave and eventually was already spotted at Volkel during his probationary term, will then have the opportunity to build up such a network. I don't understand. I would like the Minister to address this particular point in the Chamber in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think the point is very legitimate. In fact, I would like to undertake to discuss this matter with your Chamber at a later stage. I'd love to. We can then see what the lessons that society has to draw from this are. Once again, I would like to say that we can praise the services for having been aware of this in good time and actually 'wrapped it up', so to speak. But in the meantime, of course, we can only work on our own prevention and on how we can prevent such things much sooner. I would therefore like to say, through you, Mr President, that if this criminal investigation continues, we will have such a debate with each other in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes. Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. Following on from my colleague's previous question, I would like to ask the following. I hear the Minister in the answers a lot about technique. But it is, I think, a question of concrete measures in the fight against terrorism. It was the CDA and especially the VVD that let all those terrorists in in the last few years. And they're still letting them in, because the boundaries are still open. Can the Minister give a concrete undertaking today to this Chamber and to the Dutch people to close that border? I do not need to hear a prepared story that has been prepared by the officials, but I just want to hear a concrete 'yes' or 'no'. Is the Minister prepared to close those borders today and make the Netherlands safer for new terrorists who are being imported?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	I'll start with the last one. I have already said and I keep saying that my services and I strive and do everything in my power to keep the Netherlands as safe as possible. And as for the first thing: it is not realistic to think that we can put a wall around the Netherlands and say that no one comes in at all. There will always be people coming into our country with wrong intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	I agree with all the compliments to the services, to the prosecutor and to the police. I stress the need for sufficient resources for them to be able to do everything in their power to keep the Netherlands safe. My question is about cooperation, actually in two areas. First of all, I read that the suspects would have had contact with foreign countries. My question is whether the action in the Netherlands has also led to action abroad. And if so, where and how? And the second thing is, we've already...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	No. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	But this is part of the partnership.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	No, no, no. You have the same time as everyone else. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	I am very sorry, but I cannot say anything about this in the context of the criminal investigation; I really cannot do that. But I promise I will certainly be prepared to come back to this later in the debate: what lessons have we learned from cooperation within or outside the borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	That the government is making every effort to keep the Netherlands safe is demonstrably bullshit. The terrorists we are talking about are not born in the Netherlands. They were just let in. And this government continues to let terrorists in. So not everything is done to keep the Netherlands safe. I wonder what residence status these terrorists have. When did they get that residence status? And how the hell did they get through the screening?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	The statement that this government is letting terrorists in is not correct. As I have just said: the point of how to deal with the fact that we have open borders within the EU already indicates that people are entering our country or that people can already live in our country, even people who only have a Dutch passport, who have evil intentions against our society. And I'm responsible for our services tracking, tracking and disabling people like that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u24	Then I will go to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u25	Every day a lot of people in the Netherlands are busy to prevent attacks. They often do that job in secret. Now we see how important that is. On behalf of the SP, too, many compliments. If I can believe the media, some of the people who were arrested were in the hospital with aid workers, some of them were in a deradicalisation program. And if I can believe the media, there was progress, great progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u26	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u27	Looking at this situation, can the Minister also comment on the quality and adequacy of the deradicalisation programmes we currently have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u28	The complexity is that the interventions made in the context of the local approach to radicalisation are coordinated in multidisciplinary case-by-case consultation. Then we are talking about all kinds of interventions that indeed come from different disciplines. I think that, if we are to have a debate on what comes out of the criminal investigation, we should also see together what has happened here in the field of these interventions and what influence they have or have not had. I think that we should certainly take a critical look at this issue as a society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you.
