ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Study Finance Act 2000 to a change in the interest rate rate for the Higher Education Loan. I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u2	And I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When exactly are we going to find it normal that it is no longer self-evident that younger generations have it better than their parents? When a few months ago it became known that for the first time since the Second World War 30s the material is worse than their parents, this caused hardly any social fuss. And those are the thirties. The situation of our 20s and teens is even more precarious in this respect. Insecure labour has become the norm for them and affordable housing is an impossibility. And on top of that, growing debt. Mr. Chairman. This is not all the fault of the bill before us today, but it does contribute to increasing the number of problems for young people. It is therefore important for the SP to see this proposal in this context, the context of the very difficult socio-economic situation of generations of young people, which seems to deteriorate every year. We are also generally struck by the fact that in recent years public finances have been cleaned up or burdens have been raised by the argument that we should not increase public debt because it places the burden on future generations. But if there is a bill that literally increases the burden for future generations, but not through a collective debt but through a series of private debts, then that is obviously not a problem at all. That raises questions about the motivation behind this bill. Mr. Chairman. This bill changes the lending system in the sense that the interest that students have to pay is no longer linked to the interest paid by the government on five-year bonds, but to ten-year bonds. I think the first question that should be asked is: why does the cabinet come up with this bill? The reason for this legislation is, according to the explanatory memorandum, the financial sustainability of the study funding system and public finances in the broad long term. I would like to emphasise explicitly that that is the formal and sole reason for this bill. This has also been mentioned by the Minister in various debates. Other suggested motives, for example, there was a financial exchange with the reduction in tuition fees, as I myself have suggested, have been explicitly denied. The same applies to the suggestion which has been made, namely that students are now borrowing too much for frivolous business and that this should be discouraged with higher interest rates. No, the key word here is "sustainability." That makes it important to take a good look at the meaning of this concept. For example, if I am concerned about the shelf-life of milk in my refrigerator, my concern is actually about the fear that that milk is over the shelf-life, is therefore unsustainable and therefore undrinkable. So if the cabinet makes a bill for the sake of the sustainability of the loan system and the state finances in the broad sense, then I assume that this means that it will become unsustainable without this bill. However, the written answers to questions from SP, D66 and GroenLinks show that this is not the case. The government states that it does not consider that the study funding system is unsustainable. However, it states that sustainability can be improved. In other words, the government does not explain the term "financial sustainability" here as something absolute. There is no threatening problem that needs to be solved, not a financial crisis that needs to be averted. The loan system was and is financially sustainable. What the great degree of sustainability here simply means is: it costs the government less. And that is essentially the argument behind this proposal. A more sustainable system is a cheaper system. Yeah, I remember a couple of them. Because the sustainability of public finances can be improved in many ways. I mention a few: selling the art collection of the Rijksmuseum, lifting Leiden University, levying a special tax on beards. These are all three excellent proposals for longer-term sustainability of public finances. And yet I suspect that, when the cabinet comes with a beard tax tomorrow, even the most loyal coalition groups are going to ask a few questions, such as "gosh, can we not get a little more support for this proposal?'. But with this proposal, there is really no substantive argument as to why we are going to do this, except for the somewhat strange argument of interest subsidy. I will deal with this later. In addition, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the amount of this measure. The coalition agreement and this bill are based on a structural yield of 226 million in the year 2060. That's 42 years from now. Such a prediction for our time should therefore have been made in 1976, with the measures involved. I wasn't even born at the time. It was ten years before the introduction of the basic grant, thirteen years before the end of the Cold War and, for example, twenty years before the commercial use of e-mail - just to tell you what huge timeframe we are actually talking about. And let's see what assumptions are exactly below 226 million, the "reference estimates" in ministerial jargon. The following things you have to estimate in order to arrive at such a reference estimate. Firstly, this is the number of students going to be up to 2060, which should be based on demographic predictions and migration predictions. For example, in order to predict the number of 22-year-olds who have just graduated in 2060, you also have to estimate how many children are born in 2038 and how many will enter and leave the Netherlands in the meantime. Then you have to estimate the percentage of these young people actually going to study in higher education. Well, that percentage has increased in recent years, but it is doubtful whether this trend is continuing, stabilizing or reversing. Those are also assumptions you have to make about a long term in the future. The reference estimates used by the Ministry do not have such doubts. For example, it is stated that in that academic year 2038 there will be exactly 441.904.4 bachelor's students. That suggests an absurd degree of certainty, but of course it is no more than a rough assessment, based on very uncertain assumptions. And then there's the question of how much the average study debt per student is actually going to be until 2060. The government assumes in the calculation that it remains the same. That's an assumption, too. In fact, that is what the Minister is demonstratingly contradicting himself in her figures. Because for the calculations to arrive at the amount of 226 million she has assumed an average student debt when graduating €21,000, we read. However, the Minister himself states in her written reply that this proposal will increase the average student debt at graduation to €21,500. I ask the Minister: why is that not included in the calculation, because it saves about 2.5%? However, the Minister calculated a total national study debt of EUR 33.5 billion in 2060. Then you have to estimate the difference in interest rates between the ten-year bonds and the five-year bonds from now to 2060. The government assumes, in a calculation model, that it will be 0.78% on average. That is also an assumption, based on the average of the last ten years. Now I don't think you're gonna find a lot of economists or historians who are gonna say that the interest rate developments over the past ten years are very representative of how interest generally develops, but good. In the decade 1998-2008, the difference between the five-year rate and the ten-year rate was only 0.49%, and in the previous eight years only 0.46%. And if we take the last percentage, that 0.46% difference between ten-year and five-year bonds, and we apply that to the calculation as the Minister has made to reach 226 million, then the structural saving in 2060 is suddenly 133 million. That's almost half less. That is one parameter changing in all assumptions used by the Ministry. And then there is the estimate of the number of students who actually paid off the debt after 35 years. In doing so, the cabinet assumes a kind of magical CPB rate of 86.4% that actually pays off the debt. However, that percentage was used in the introduction of the existing loan system in 2014. Now here I am arguing how unreliable predictions are in the distant future, but I would like to venture one prediction: if the interest rate rises, the number of students who have not paid off their debt after 35 years will also increase irrevocably. And that can go up quite a bit, just when interest rates go up. And if former students can't afford that, then eventually, after 35 years, the government costs extra money again, because they have to cancel. Now I can imagine someone listening to this feeling that I am very negative about the Ministry's predictive skills and that I am wronging our reference estimates. But I would point out that for next year alone we have a huge deviation in the number of university students. OCW expected 2% extra university students. It became 5% extra university students. That is a 3% deviation in the year ahead. And then insist with dry eyes that you can say that in 2060 the treasury will be filled with 226 million more? Those numbers are butter soft. It might as well be twice as much, or half, or any other amount. I challenge the Minister to argue that the amount of 226 million in 2060 is harder and more certain than I have shown here. I don't think she's gonna make it. The Minister does not use this bill to pursue budgetary policy. She writes science fiction. That reads away entertainingly, but it is not a basis for serious policy. Then we stick to the question: why this proposal? Mr. Chairman. Then we have the argument of the interest subsidy. That is a new argument in the loan system discussion. The word does not appear in the Acts of the original borrowing system debate. For a while I played with the idea to organise a hearing and ask the architects of the loan system: Jesse Klaver van GroenLinks, Pieter Duisenberg van de VVD, Mohammed Mohandis van de Partij van de Arbeid and Mr Van Meenen van D66. That idea was not very enthusiastic in committee. But one of the things I would like to ask is whether there has been talk of interest subsidies or sustainability at the kitchen table of Jesse Klaver or on the terrace of Pieter Duisenberg or wherever that system was set up. Was it discussed later by officials at the Ministry? Is there any critical advice on this? If there were concerns at the Ministry about interest subsidies and sustainability then, why wasn't that announced? Why wasn't the Chamber informed about it at the time? Why was there nothing on interest subsidies in the explanatory memorandum at the time? Why didn't the Council of State advise on it at the time? To ask the Minister in concrete terms: what do we know about what we did not know in 2015? Or is it simply that a new coalition has been established since then and that this has led to miraculous new insights into the department about the horrors of interest subsidies? It almost must be, otherwise we will have to come to the conclusion that the Chamber was not informed at the time or that an opportunity argument had been sought. Mr. Chairman. I must also confess that I had to laugh a bit at the term "interest subsidy." After all, the name suggests that the government is subsidising interest rates and that this is a major problem. Of course, it would also be ridiculous for the government to subsidise interest on loans. Except for the mortgage interest deduction, of course, which we subsidise by about 10 billion a year. For the fanciers of comparisons: of that amount you can return the basic grant about eleven times and then you still have enough left for, for example, the funding of a second master. That goes beyond the subject of this legislative proposal, so I will not continue to do so, but I would like to give colleagues the opportunity to reflect on exactly what it says about the priorities of a country and a society if subsidising interest costs on loans for the acquisition of property is self-evident, but unacceptable for the acquisition of knowledge. Back to the interest subsidy mentioned in the Minister's proposal. Moreover, this interest subsidy is not quantified in any way or to any extent. How much interest subsidy do students get? I have no idea. Obviously, the cabinet has no idea either, but it is certain that it is such a big problem that it must be dealt with immediately. The Minister states that there is interest subsidy because the interest rate which students now pay on loans, that of the five-year bonds, is lower than the interest rate paid by the government on the total sovereign debt. So there is interest subsidy. The Minister states that it is logical to keep the sovereign debt as a benchmark, because additional loans to be contracted for the loan system also contribute to that total sovereign debt. She claims the State doesn't distinguish what loan you use for. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the fact that linking or not linking loans to specific government bonds is a political choice, you can and should ask yourself whether it makes sense to look at the sovereign debt. The public debt is, after all, a total of loans for several decades ago, far before there was ever a loan system. Why should students have to contribute through the loan system to, for example, a hypothetical, decades-long loan that has ever been made for the Delta Works? With the loan system, the question should not be how much the State pays for the sovereign debt and on government loans from the distant past, but how much the State pays for loans in the present and in the future, and possibly since 2015, because that is the year of the introduction of the loan system. So the question I asked myself some time ago is: how much does the government actually pay for loans on the international capital market at the moment? And I'm not a finance spokesman, so that took me some time to figure it out, I'd like to admit here. The Dutch government finances its deficit annually with a range of government bonds, with a variety of different maturity periods: 1-year, 3-year, 5-year, 10-year, etc. And the longer the loan, the higher the interest on it. But what's the average? That's gonna be lucky, so I thought after some time... have been neatly published in recent years. The average maturity of government bonds issued in 2018 was 6.3 years. This will be 6.4 years in 2019. In 2017 it was 6 years, and in 2016 it was 5.5 years. What does that mean? There is an interest subsidy, but it is much more limited and smaller than suggested in this bill. In recent years, the government has paid on average for its own loans on the capital market an interest rate that fits with government bonds with a maturity of about 6 years, and then lends that money to students at an interest rate of about 5 years. That's an interest subsidy, if you want to look at it that way, but it's really so limited that you wonder if it's worth putting a law on it. And that's gonna be different if we suddenly start asking students for a 10-year rate. This would mean, for example, for next year, that the government itself would borrow money on the capital market under the interest rate associated with the 6.4-year bond, which would be passed on to students at an interest rate appropriate to the 10-year bond. Simply: the government then lends itself for a lower interest rate than the interest rate it uses when lending to students. Then we come into a scenario that the government could actually make a profit on the loan system. And I would like to ask my fellow Members whether this is really the intention here. At the same time, of course, I invite the Minister to improve me, if there is anything wrong with what I have presented here. Mr. Chairman. The argument of sustainability is therefore unsustainable. The sums that should be saved are based on quicksand. Interest subsidy is a hollow argument. There is no clear reason for this bill. There is no serious justification for this bill. This is the worst-founded cabinet proposal since... Well, since the dividend tax. And that wasn't very long ago, but the Chamber understands what I mean. Then why was this in the coalition agreement? I cannot think of any reason for this, but I fear that we should ask the question of who for the first time: which party has argued in favour of this? You can only speculate on that as a simple opposition party. And that's what I'm gonna do. We may have had a hint at the last budget debate, where both the Minister and Mr Van Meenen just happened to think it was necessary to stress that the increase in interest rates was not their favourite measure either. And more particularly: they both stressed, unsolicited, in the debate that the CDA and the Christian Union had included an interest rate increase in their election credit. I find it difficult to see anything in there other than a hint; not very collegial perhaps, but clear. And then the message of D66 is clearly: it wasn't us. And who is it? Who did it? It's almost a coalition version of the board game Cluedo. Was it Harry van der Molen with a lead pipe in the library? Was it Eppo Bruins of the Christian Union with a candlestick in the pool room? Or was it Pieter Duisenberg of the VVD with an English key in the greenhouse? The latter would be painful, for the next time the president of the VSNU has to negotiate with the student associations on the use of the loan system funds. And, of course, I will ask the coalition groups who has come up with this idea. And then I might get back that coalition negotiations are confidential. That may be so, but I believe that voters, and certainly young voters, have the right to know from whom this proposal comes. It does not seem to me that it comes from the official organisation, because there is no sustainability problem, and there is no report or research on the basis of which this measure is based. So I ask openly: what party has the political courage to say it was their idea? Then perhaps we will get a little closer to the question of why this has been proposed. Mr. Chairman. Those were my thoughts on the occasion of the bill... Or better: the lack of cause and justification. I shall now turn to the consequences of the legislative proposal, but perhaps it would be better to allow an interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u4	That's an interesting argument. At least one thing we know for sure: it's not the SP. Because nothing has ever happened in this country because of the SP. The SP has never taken responsibility for anything. The SP has never invested a euro in education. My question to Mr Futselaar is: if he is so sorry about what is in the coalition agreement, why is there no letter in the counter-budget of the three left-wing parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u5	The counter-budget of the left was a compromise and contains the things we agree on. Mr Van Meenen knows that one of the things the three left-wing parties do not agree on is the loan system. We disagree on that. That will be evident in the debate. The SP, of course, makes its own assessment. For example, we want the basic grant back. That is why it is in our own pass-through for the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u6	I'm not talking about the loan system. I'm talking about this raise in interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u7	Oh, I can be pretty simple about that. You don't have to put an interest rate increase in the counter-budget, because if anything comes in, that's another nine, sorry, seven years away. The highlight isn't until 2060. I have just argued that the figures for this are extremely quicksand-based. As far as I am concerned, it is completely illusory to say that you have to submit a proposal or find cover for it. I do want to; I would like to give an alternative to the 226 million in 2060, for example a tax on nuclear fusion, to name but a few, or on space trips or on boats for people who want to watch flooded Amsterdam. That's the kind of speculation we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u8	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u9	In fact, you have also offered an alternative, namely not to agree to the Tax Plan. As a result, the group you are referring to, the people who will earn more than morale in the coming years, are the people who are now students or who are going to study in the coming years, who will miss out on 700 euros a year. That is the concrete measure that the three left-wing parties, including the SP, have in their counter-budget. 700 euros less tax reduction. That's your alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u10	I am trying to deal with this bill and its consequences, but it seems that Mr Van Meenen would like to talk about the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u11	No, Mr. Van Meenen, you can't interrupt anymore. Carry on, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u12	I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. I was going to talk about the consequences of the bill. The first consequence I would like to mention is that of trust, specifically of young people in politics. You made an appointment, I say to the parties responsible for the loan system. You promised a social loan system on favourable terms in exchange for a billion high-quality investment in higher education. Now the first experience of quality investment by universities and colleges has not been very happy. See the Court of Auditors' report on this at the time, but I would like to express the hope and expectation that things will improve in the coming years, although I would also point out that the First Chamber has recently been extremely critical. We can see that the additional resources are already partly undermined by higher student numbers on the one hand than estimated and, on the other hand, the efficiency reductions of this cabinet and previous cabinets on the other. So we have to fear that some of that money will go to maintaining quality rather than improving quality in practice. And then there is the problem of the 200 million that would be cut through the O.V. card and the Better Benutten programme. There seems to be little of that for the time being, and I believe that this should be clarified this month. Can the Minister say anything about that? Or do students might still have an unpleasant Christmas present hanging over their heads? If so, should we not weigh that in conjunction with this proposal? Now the conditions for the loan system are changing too, three years after its introduction. In my view, this makes the original lending system of 2015 the shortest-shape study funding system since the introduction of the basic grant in 1986. It does not demonstrate great administrative reliability to adapt the conditions so quickly. It is also difficult to explain why young people will soon have to pay more than their slightly older brothers or sisters under the current system. It also has to do with confidence in political promises. This coalition includes parties that, like the SP, have campaigned for the return of the basic grant. The coalition agreement didn't make it. I won't blame those parties here, because I realize that it's in a coalition giving and taking and that you can't pull everything in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u13	It's "I realize," not "I realize."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u14	You're right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u15	You're an educational spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u16	My father would definitely improve me. I realize that it's within a coalition to give and take and that you can't pull everything in. But that the leader of the Christian Union, Mr Segers, is arguing that student debt among young people is a major problem one and a half weeks before we debate an increase in interest rates on the loan system under which his signature is signed and that the debt problem is actually increasing, I believe, is extremely cynical. I would like to say this here, and I would also like to point out that the Christian Union is not taking part in the debate on this proposal. That really kills confidence in politics. Mr. Chairman. What does this proposal actually cost the student borrowing? That seems to be a very simple question, but it turns out to be amazingly complicated to answer, at least for the Minister. The original bill contained a very limited explanation. With an average debt, the average monthly amount repaid per year would increase by €12 per month for 35 years. But that is, of course, a very limited overview, because you would like to know what effect it has on different income groups in the case of different debts. In the first written consultation we had on this subject, I think D66 asked a very good question: what are the expectations for a monthly refund for the different income groups in low study debt, average study debt and maximum study debt? In response to this question we received a clear table showing the effect of the increase in interest rates on various debts with income of €20,000, €40,000 and €80,000. And what's pale? Only with the income of €80,000, yet a royal income, was there a difference. And yet dreary opposition parties continued to ask questions, despite groaning from the coalition. I asked for an extra round of questions and then Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks asked for a third round. And only after questions asking for very specific income amounts did we get a real overview. Then it turns out that with an income of €40,000 and a debt of €21,000 you don't pay anything extra in interest, but if your income is €7,000 higher, so €47,000 per year, you pay €5,000 extra, as much as the top incomes. If you have a modal income of €37,000 and a debt of €11,000, you pay €2,500 extra in interest. And you can go on like that. Mr. Chairman. None of this was visible in the first answers we received, which suggested the effects of the loan system very rosy. There happened to be exactly the kind of income that minimizes the cost of the system. That borders on deception. I think it is serious that we should make such efforts to obtain figures on exactly what the effects of this proposal are. Three rounds of questions to get answers. I promised myself that I would remain parliamentary and diplomatic about what I think of this. That is why I shall say the following. I believe that the Minister has looked at the edges of Parliament's obligation to provide information. That is serious and it does not matter whether or not there is a conscious strategy behind it. But the information we did get in the end is telling. A person with a modal income, €37,000, and a modest debt of €11,000 will pay almost 23% more on his debt with €2,500 extra interest than under the old system. If your income is slightly higher than modal, for example €42,000, and you have a slightly larger debt, for example €16,000, you pay €4,500 more in interest. That's 28% more. This is simply a significant deterioration in the financial situation of former students. And then I hear people say: that's only €12 a month extra. Yeah, for 35 years. If the care premium increases a tenner in this country, we call it a substantial increase. But when it comes to former students, these kinds of costs are always presented as minimal. As if everyone who has attended higher education automatically gets a high income. Yeah, average. But who guarantees you're an average graduate? As if everyone in higher education is automatically graduating, which unfortunately is not, and there is a serious risk of that. For me this is perhaps the most important argument against the loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr Futselaar speaks loudly about deception and you can name it all. How about we start by saying that this doesn't cost the student anything? Fortunately, further on in his speech, Mr Futselaar talks about workers, former students. But the message that he is constantly broadcasting, and others with him, is: this costs the student a lot of money. The student's not gonna pay any more euros. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u18	Yes. Students do not start paying off their debt during their studies. So literally what Mr. Van Meenen says is true, but your debt is already growing while you're studying, so it's not for nothing that the blame for graduating is already €500 higher than he starts. I'll call that a form of payment, because your debt is getting bigger. It may take longer for you to start paying, but that debt will of course grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u19	This is crucial to the question that is constantly surrounding this: does this affect the moment you start studying? Not at the time. You can just go to college, you can live normally. In particular, Mr Futselaar will come to the effect later in his speech. Are we therefore agreed that effects will only occur with a modal income, €40,000, or more, and not underneath that? There are no effects below that. Most of the higher educated will be in the higher category, because of the higher education. Others who do not come into it will not have to pay the additional burden. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr Van Meenen, the interruptions are getting out of hand. A quick question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr President, this is the second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u22	It doesn't matter, but an interruption should be really short, a remark or a question, but no analyses. You have all the time to do so. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr Van Meenen is always talking about supermodal, but I have just mentioned the figures. It can be seen from the table that the Minister sent in the end. A modal income is €37,000. A debt of €11,000 means a total of €2,500 in extra interest. I think that's an amount that matters. Then you can't say it's just the higher incomes that are going to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u24	It only depends on how you bring that up, but that €2,500 relates to an increase that starts at the earliest in seven years and over €5 in the month. €5 in the month! I hope that there will be no further increases in other burdens in the world. On the basis of this €5, however, Mr Futselaar says to students: "Don't go to college, because the debt is so high." That's his message.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u25	I distance myself from the suggestion that I say that people shouldn't go to college because there's guilt. That's kind of the reverse world. People come up with policies that cause the blame to rise, and then opposition parties are accused of naming that that is the policy and that the consequence of that policy is that the debt increases. If speaking the truth in this Chamber becomes a problem for Mr Van Meenen, then I wish him every success in the rest of this debate. As some of you know, I was a lecturer at a college until the last election. As is the case in many colleges, in addition to the position of lecturer, I also had that of mentor of different classes, or as it is called in awfully high school jargon: study career counselor. As a career guide, you will have short conversations with individual students about their progress and their study results. If they're good, you'll be done soon, and if they're not good, you'll see what you can do about it. I usually started with: maybe you should learn to plan a little better. Or I said, "Maybe you shouldn't sit down and gam." Sometimes there were worse problems at home, but in my senior year as a teacher, the first year of the loan system generation, I noticed that the tone of the conversations changed, not in all conversations, but in some. Students who had a hard time struggled not only with the question of how they could make sure they got the education, but also with the question of how big is the financial risk I'm running, what are the chances of me leaving without a diploma, with guilt? If that's the case, wouldn't it be better if I stopped doing some damage reduction already? I understand that trade-off very well. We have stopped our higher education with pitfalls, such as the binding study advice. We have made education programmes so full and efficient, in the name of return, that making mistakes automatically results in study delay and therefore additional debt when you borrow. And we have made higher education increasingly expensive, as this proposal actually does, at least if you are a student who is forced to borrow. The moment you do those two things, on the one hand, organize education with a greater chance of failure, and on the other hand, increase the financial consequences of that failure, then you grow calculating behavior. Then young people will play safe. Doubt between mbo and hbo: go mbo, because then you'll be sure to be okay. Doubt between HBO and university: choose HBO, because at least you will have your degree. Taking risks in education can literally pay off very expensively nowadays. That's my objection to the loan system. Guilt dampens ambition. You give as a message to young people not to opt for the highest attainable, the most challenging, or even the most appropriate, but for the safest, so that you know you're graduating, so that you don't lag behind and avoid high debts. This is an attitude that undoubtedly works excellently for higher education returns, and in the short term also better for the Treasury because it results in minimal failure and maximum efficiency, but it is deadly for an economy that benefits as well as the best trained staff. In my opinion, where we can best see this effect is in the flow from mbo to hbo. This flow rate has been declining for a longer time, but the decline has been stronger in the year in which the loan system was implemented and has never recovered. In the written response, the Minister stated that an in-depth study by the Policy Measures Monitor into the loan version among MBOs showed that this is not a determining factor in the choice of whether to continue studying or not. That's just wrong. The Policy Measures Monitor 2017-2018 explicitly states that especially among the group of MBO students who have doubts about continuing to study loanaversion is a factor. The Policy Measures Monitor of the previous year was even more explicit about it. Add to this other studies, such as last year's CBS, which show that passing to HBO is related to family income. In this flow, the middle income lags behind. That is relevant, because that is the group that cannot call on the supplementary grant, but also does not have the means to finance a study entirely and is therefore dependent on the loan system. The Minister states that raising interest rates will not affect the flow from MBO to HBO. As far as the SP is concerned, if you look at the reports below, the reverse is much more likely. There is, of course, as everywhere else in this legislative proposal, no justification; no research into the potential effects. But if the Minister says, as she does in response to questions from the SP, that there are no signs that the introduction of the loan system has led to a worse flow from MBO to HBO, I have to say that the Minister has either not read or believed or understood the stacks of reports written by her own ministry and others. In addition, this proposal ensures that a loan debt built up during the MBO, i.e. under the old system, is converted into a higher education debt when studying, at higher rates of interest. In other words: just by switching from MBO to HBO, a student with an MBO debt suffers financially, even before the first day of study. Even if a streamer stops after one month of hbo, the total loan will soon fall under the increased interest rate. This is not reasonable and is also contrary to the goal of the coalition agreement to facilitate the flow between MBO and HBO. There is an additional threshold here. The Minister gives a number of arguments as to why this should be the case. The first is: it was always the case that MBO debts were converted into higher education conditions upon transition. Yes, Mr. Chairman, but in the past the conditions weren't worse, and that makes quite a difference. Converting the conditions of a debt to other conditions is not so controversial if they remain equal or improve, but if they are worse. People are gonna protest. The second argument is that it becomes too complicated for DUO and the student: two different debts with different conditions. I really think this is a bullshit argument. All DUO has to do is show two bubbles instead of one and come with a calculation up to a month amount. That's what the student will eventually be interested in. I don't see what's so complicated and unworkable about it. If it is complicated and unworkable, my question is: what about lifelong learning credit later? This is, after all, a system of borrowing which maintains the five-year interest rate, for unclear reasons. Someone who has a loan under the ten-year regime and after 20 years thinks 'I want to take up extra training, I am going to take advantage of lifelong learning credit' has two debts with two different interest rates. Is that too complex for DUO to perform in due course? I asked the Minister whether this was not contrary to the principle of legal certainty. The Minister states that this is not the case, because an MBO student with a debt knows either whether or in principle, if the DUO succeeds in communicating this properly, what the effects of enrolment in higher education on that debt are. The conditions are known in advance, but can someone who is currently building a debt in the MBO with the idea of "I am going to flow to HBO" reasonably be expected to take into account that, by the time he or she reaches HBO, a new system has entered into force, with retroactive payment of additional interest on that MBO debt? I find that questionable. I have tabled an amendment to maintain the MBO debt of streamers to higher education under the old conditions, in order to prevent this element of the legislative proposal from worsening the flow. I think I have explained my motivation in the meantime. This Minister has often talked about the importance of maintaining and increasing access to higher education. I'm seeing another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u26	Yes, Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr Futselaar has very big words, great main points, also about his amendment and his principles. My question to him is whether he knows how his amendment would work out in practice for the students concerned. I think that's quite a relevant element. What is the practical effect of Mr Futselaar's amendment on the monthly amounts of students?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u28	The practical effect will be: you have student x, who builds on the mbo debt y, €5,000, I'll just mention what. It is covered by the five-year regime, i.e. a certain interest rate. Of course, the interest rate is always variable, so you can't predict what it's going to be. He then goes to the HBO and builds up, let's say, €21,000 in debt. Then he will have to pay the five-year interest on the €5,000 and the ten-year interest on the €21,000. It is then up to DUO to see what kind of amount is rolling out there, but that doesn't seem very complicated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u29	I also hope it's not complicated. I agree entirely with Mr Futselaar, but it may also be that Mr Futselaar's sympathetic amendment is going to have an opposite effect, a less beneficial effect for the students concerned. Does Mr Futselaar agree with me? And if that's the case, isn't it more convenient to judge it in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u30	It is theoretically possible that the five-year interest rate is higher than the ten-year interest rate, but I do not think that is the case in practice. Only once in a while they're about the same. That was the case, for example, in the early 1990s. I do not see the problem that Mrs Tielen is sketching here. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about accessibility and the Minister has often talked about it. With her words, the SP often agrees, but sometimes the actions seem to be left behind. I have already said enough about the failed pilot balloon in relation to the binding study opinion. We now have a legislative proposal in place that will worsen the accessibility for students, specifically for students who need to borrow. And who are these students? These are or low incomes which, in addition to their supplementary stock exchange, usually have to borrow, or middle incomes that do not have access to a supplementary stock exchange, but also no means to finance the study itself. These are ultimately the groups that pay the price of this proposal. The more debt, the more interest will be asked. And yes, the monthly amount has been capped, but precisely because the debt is maintained for 35 years and is not forgiven after 15 years as before, they are dragging that debt behind them, even if their income position ever improves. The policy monitor shows that the percentage that sees loan terms as favourable has already decreased last year. Furthermore, it appears that the objections to borrowing, for example, are much stronger among first-generation students, especially those who benefit most from greater accessibility. The current objections to groups against the loan system do not benefit from the deterioration of the terms of these loans. So I would like to ask the Minister how this bill relates to her ambitions in terms of accessibility. In recent times there is rightly a great deal of attention to the psychic situation of young people and students in particular. The reports we are receiving are alarming, and the SP is pleased that serious research into this issue is finally coming. Talk to students and students' psychologists, and the scare beats the shit out of you. The increasing financial pressure is certainly not the only cause of this, but a factor, as RIVM also states. I would like to ask the Minister to ensure that the financial pressure on students, including those from the loan system, is explicitly included in the follow-up research that RIVM is going to carry out. The Minister further states in her written reply that the policy monitor shows that the number of students experiencing financial difficulties is greater under the old system than under the loan system. But that is a false comparison, because the students who borrowed in the old system will be above average multi-year students who have already been delayed and are therefore forced to borrow extra after the nominal period. Before that, they had the basic grant. For the new system, we only have data from students of the first two years, who have not yet had time to slow down their studies and who also live at home above average. This is an effect that the loan system has. I would like to talk to this minister about the implications for educational institutions and transport companies. Mr. Chairman. One of the other aspects that young people are struggling with is the housing market. As Mr Koerhuis said so strikingly in the budget handling of the Interior a few weeks ago, it is not fair that starters with a study loan do not intervene properly in the housing market. However, the Minister of the Interior has clearly indicated that he will follow Nibud's advice and that he will not take any measures to weigh the study debts of mortgage lenders. And to be honest, I do understand that. Monthly expenses are monthly expenses, debts are debts, whether you insist on calling them social or not. But on the left or right, it is true that because of the loan system young people are lagging behind in the housing market which their parents had little or much less. And that is indeed not fair, I have to agree with the VVD. But that is the consequence of a loan system. I am also concerned about the policy implications of this bill for the future. I have argued before that higher interest rates will lead to a lower percentage of students who ultimately repay the debt. And we know that interest rates fluctuate. What happens if the ten-year interest rate reaches 7%, as it was for example in the early 1990s? Because the refund amount is limited to 4% of the income above the minimum wage, in such a case a large proportion of former students will be mainly concerned with paying interest, rather than actually reducing the debt. And I know exactly how it goes. Then there are alarming notes coming up about the despised setbacks in the future because the government has to cancel more and more debts that have not been paid off at the end of those 35 years. And how long will it take for the 4% limit to be called into question? Does that take five years? Ten years? The speed with which the rules are already changed gives little confidence. Mr President, I will conclude. I've been doing that for 34 minutes, so that's not so bad. There's no reason for this bill. There is no reason, there is no justification and the returns are completely uncertain. The only thing we know for sure is that this is a deterioration in the conditions of generations of young people now and in the future, while their lives are under severe pressure in all kinds of social areas. This is an unfortunate proposal which will limit access to education, undermine the emancipation function of our colleges and universities and increase the debt burden on young people. Simply put: there are many good reasons not to support this proposal and there is no reason to do so. The SP therefore strongly calls on the Chamber to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u31	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. You probably expected my colleague Zihni Özdil here, who has been stuck in the study rate since the presentation of the coalition agreement. And he has also tried several times to stop the coalition from taking this measure. But he's not here today, so I'm taking over the debate from him. Mr. Chairman. In the education budget there is some kind of fixed law, some kind of rule that goes from minister to minister and says: if you lack money, you can get it from students. I experienced that myself when I was president of the National Student Union. Because in my year of administration, between 2007 and 2009, Minister Plasterk needed over a billion dollars to raise teacher salaries. We could see the mood at the time. And we got right, because part of that 1.1 billion was taken away from students. This was then done by gradually increasing tuition fees. And we see this a lot. If money is needed somewhere, education ministers look at students. Because there are more than 700,000 students, they also form an attractive milk cow. Simply put, every €2 we take away from a student is worth about 1.5 million euros. And that's easy to earn, of course. There's some buttons. You can reduce students' income. We can cut down on the O.V. student card, we can raise the tuition fees or raise the interest on the debts. And all these buttons have been deployed frequently in recent years. Because students are also an easy group to cut back on. They can hardly stop, because if they leave the job or the study, they mainly get to themselves. This is particularly true in view of the return measures that have been implemented by past Cabinets. And protests or occupations are also quickly crushed. We now see the same thing happening with the student interest rate. Probably the cabinet was still a few hundred million short at the end of the negotiations. And what's being looked at? To the students. In this case, this resulted in EUR 226 million, although this amount will only become structurally available in 2060. Mr. Chairman. The measure could have been sold if students had benefited directly from it. But we don't read that back in the Minister's support. Or have I missed something, I'd like to ask the Minister. And if there is a substantive reason behind the measure, what will students notice of the 226 million? In any case, we cannot find any substantive reasons in the explanatory statement. The Minister writes that "the only reason for this measure is to put public finances in order." Not that the current study rate is financially unsustainable, the Minister writes, but with this arrangement "the government sees scope to improve the financial sustainability of the system." I would therefore like to ask a very clear question. Why does the Minister think that we should put public finances in order by taking money away from students and not, for example, from many-earned or large companies that make a lot of profit? So why is the Education Minister's signature under this measure? That seems to me to be a clear question and I also hope for a clear answer. Mr. Chairman. My colleague from the SP just called it Cluedo. We had made a similar comparison and thought of hide-and-seek, because we are looking for the person behind this increase in interest rates. The easiest thing is, of course, to ask the Minister that question. So I would like to ask the Minister: who wants this increase in interest rates? The Minister was rather frank about this, because during the budget debate she said about this increase in student interest rates: 'It is not my favourite measure either'. How did this increase in debt end up in the government agreement? That's what the SP was wondering and that's what GroenLinks is wondering. We looked a little further, because it is now clear that the opposition parties in this Chamber have not asked for this measure either. That leaves the coalition parties. D66 doesn't seem to have much of a appetite for it either. I quote Mr Van Meenen during the budget debate. He said, "I am against everything that means a deterioration, and this is a deterioration. Let there be no misunderstanding about that." And then we can also eliminate the Christian Union, because group chairman Segers argued in the Volkskrant against the rising debts of students, who would hang around their necks like a millstone. It is therefore a pity that the Christian Union is not taking part in this debate. And the members of the CDA are even very opposed to this increase in interest rates. That leaves the VVD, but we have hardly heard about it so far. In any case, this measure does not seem to be a flagship of the VVD. Mr. Chairman. It becomes even more confusing, because despite the fact that at least three of the four coalition parties do not support the increase in interest rates, the increase in interest rates was reflected in the CPB's calculations, especially among the parties most strongly opposed to these high study debts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u33	Maybe Mrs Westerveld can tell us again which parties ultimately helped the introduction of the loan system to a majority in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u34	Yeah, that was GroenLinks, among other things. GroenLinks signed the loan system and a number of clear agreements were made that the money would be invested back in the quality of education. We've made agreements on accessibility. The loan system was introduced a few years ago. We are now talking about a change in the loan system, namely the increase in interest rates, which ultimately means that students covered by the loan system will have to pay back thousands of euros of student debt. That is the measure now before us and what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u35	If another interest rate is applied, the study debt in itself does not change; that on the one hand. But aren't you playing hide-and-seek yourself? In this debate, you are pretending that students owe it to GroenLinks because you strongly oppose it here, while the simple fact that they no longer have a basic grant is that GroenLinks, without any political reason, has given a gift to students that the scholarship is no longer there. Because that's what I call really playing hide-and-seek: playing tough here and making sure that the whole system goes into question at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u36	Well, I'm surprised at these words. We have never been secretive about this. Both our electoral programme and the pass-through have always been honest about that. For example, I remember the debates with CDAs during election time. They always said in rooms with students: vote for the CDA, because then we will get the basic grant back. The CDA's website even contained an article stating that the CDA is for less debt and more burden relief. But if we look at the wire transfer, that's not what the CDA wants at all. So, no, we're not playing hide-and-seek, it's fair in the election program and also in the bank accounts. We cannot say that from a number of other parties here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u37	In conclusion, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u38	In conclusion, I would like to conclude by saying that at least Mr Futselaar of the SP, who had done a really good job here in his contribution, could have the generosity to say that the parties who really wanted to turn back the loan system could not have brought that all in. But then I think it is all the more serious that the party that finally took care of the loan system is trying to play hide-and-seek behind that simple fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u39	We have always been clear about the loan system. I made it clear that this is in our electoral programme and in our accounts. We have signed a number of agreements, including to invest in quality and accessibility. What we do note, however, is that my colleague, Mr Özdil, did so in the previous debate on pre-investments, is that a number of promises made when deciding on the loan system have not been made. For example, it is very unclear whether these pre-investments have ever been made. That is not the fault of GroenLinks, we are very critical of that. A number of other promises have been made, which have not been made in the end either. If we look now, we can see that this cabinet changes the rules of the game very quickly, a few years after the introduction of the loan. That's not what we signed up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u40	My question is along the lines of your last words. The loan system was initiated by Jesse Klaver. The content of the money is a bit under discussion. Now we see that the terms change. Does GroenLinks regret the loan system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u41	A number of reports have been published, to which you referred. Those reports say something about what the loan system does with the flow. The researchers also say that it is very difficult to draw conclusions from this at this stage. They recommend waiting a number of years to see what the long-term effects and conclusions are. That is what we are sticking to. That is what I am doing here, but that is what my colleague Özdil has done in previous debates on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u42	Then I conclude at least that GroenLinks keeps the possibility open that they will regret the loan system in a few years' time. At least I think that's a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u44	We have always said that we are very critical and that accessibility is extremely important for us. We will remain critical of that. Yes, we will. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with our confusion as to who really wants the loan system. I was just talking about the CDA, which Congress has said not to increase student interest. I would like to say once again that I find it very strange that in election time the idea is being campaigned with the idea: vote for us, we are getting the basics back in place and ultimately raising interest rates. While parties here, especially in the media, say that they are concerned about the high educational debt of young people. It is easy to reduce by abandoning this measure. Mr. Chairman. I told you, I'm not the only one who doesn't understand it anymore. Because the CDA's supporters asked the same question on 3 November. I see I'm getting another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u45	I would like to ask GroenLinks to be more specific about the positions. They were in favour of the introduction of this social loan system, or the debt system. Now you state that a number of promises have been made that have not been fulfilled. If you had known that then, would GroenLinks have agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u46	When you meet, you assume that those promises will be fulfilled. Again, we didn't sign up for an increase in interest rates. We also agreed that the investments would be brought forward and that they would be invested in education, so that students would benefit and the quality of education would remain in order. We could not know, and we have not signed up for it, that a very large part of it has not been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u47	That is very politically naive. GroenLinks introduces a system with the PvdA and D66, which you then know other parties have something to say about. Then you can turn the buttons. I think it is rather politically naive to say that we then made an agreement which is maintained for years. That's not how politics works, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u48	It seems to me that politics doesn't work that way that you make arrangements to break the deal a few years later. I don't think that's political. Again, we did not sign up for this increase in interest rates. We are very critical of this and we are also very critical of the institutions that have not pre-invested the amounts promised. That was a debate in this Chamber a while ago, not with me but with my colleague. At that time we were extremely critical of this and we also made a number of proposals to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u49	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u50	Finally, Mr President. I notice that GroenLinks has co-created this monster and now that monster starts scratching a bit says: that was not the deal. I find that politically naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u51	Again. We are talking today about a bill that deals with the increase in interest rates. We didn't sign up for that. It is precisely because we consider the accessibility and quality of education to be very important that I am so critical of the legislative proposal that we are discussing today, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u53	I was still at the CDA. On 3 November, the CDA Congress called on Buma to withdraw the increase in student loans. A resolution has been tabled which says very clearly: interest on student debts must remain at the current social rate. My esteemed colleague, Mr Van der Molen, informed RTL News that he was going to discuss it. That would seem very sensible if your congress were to make a clear statement. That is why I expected a message in recent days that the CDA would withdraw the measure or at least that it would be discussed in a coalition context. Once again, the substance of this proposal is lacking. Mr President, something remarkable happened. The CDA Minister of Finance also found it difficult to defend the measure in the Upper Chamber. In a debate with the Senate, Minister Hoekstra also pointed the finger at the group chairman of the CDA. He said there: I am a simple servant of the Crown, and I have to leave Mr Buma with the assignment that Mr Buma received about student interest. Mr President, today is 5 December, the day that we are dealing with this legislative amendment. As far as we're concerned, the time of pointing to each other is over. Has the Minister had a discussion with the coalition partners about this? If so, what has come out of it? Can we expect another present in the shoes of future generations of students on this Sinterklaas Day? We are very curious about the reaction. Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier, when the basic grant was abolished, the promise was made that the quality of education would be stimulated. Every penny that was released from the basic scholarship would go to a better quality of education. In addition, current students would benefit from better education quality by raising investment. That promise was not fulfilled. I ask the Minister how she looks at the promises made in the introduction of the loan system. Has all the money released gone to educational quality? Has higher education remained accessible? Have universities and colleges kept their promise of pre-investment? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the answer to this is three times: no. Because we see that there is again a reduction in efficiency and also a lump sum discount. We see that the B2 increase increases student purchasing power and increases student workload. We see that the responsibility for the pre-investment of colleges and universities is still not up to level. In October, in a letter, the General Court found that the responsibility for 2018 has fallen behind. All in all, that doesn't paint a pretty picture. Mr President, the enthusiasm within this Chamber is extremely low for the measure now before us. It does not yield anything from this cabinet period and the long-term consequences of this measure cannot be foreseen. Which brings me to the heart of our criticism. We can expect our ministries to make policies based on sound foundation, facts, transparent argumentation and forward-looking decision-making. That is not the case here. Instead of a sound financial basis, there is a kind of beer skin budget. Now many good plans have been devised in the pub, but with regard to a plan that has such far-reaching consequences, we can expect a better basis. Mr President, I am saying this because the government agreement states that this measure must provide a structural contribution of 226 million. In doing so, the negotiators assumed that just over 86% of the debts would be repaid. Mr Futselaar referred to this too. However, that calculation dates back to 2014, when the interest rate increase was not yet on the table and the estimated debts were also lower. It is now almost 2019: a very different time and a different financial situation. The Minister's officials themselves have already indicated that the 86% is only a fictitious drop-off rate. I quote from the letter. They write: "Sowieso have barely graduated under the new system. Let alone that they have already repaid their debt and that the balance sheet can be drawn up." The 226 million and the old 86% discharge rate are based on wet fingering. I would like to ask the Minister whether she also thinks that the 86% increase in interest rates may not be achieved at all. That is why I would like to ask the Minister how reliable these financial figures are. What is the Minister going to do if the measure suddenly brings much more? Is the Minister prepared to ask the CPB to reconsider the proceeds from this measure? Mr. Chairman. I have also looked at what this increase in interest rates brings about for the financial sustainability - the argument of the cabinet. Suppose that this measure would generate structural money as of 1 January 2019 instead of 1 January 2060. Then the government will not save 7% of expenditure, or 0.7%, but only 0.07% of all expenditure. Because that is the effect of 226 million on a rich budget of 303 billion euros. How sustainable is the only argument given for the measure, namely putting public finances in order, if this measure concerns only 0.07% of the state budget? In doing so, the increase in interest rates seems to be a typical measure stemming from the paper reality. I think it would be more effective to stop this debate and have a brainstorm session so that we can get that amount from somewhere else with some creativity. Mr. Chairman. My surprise goes further, because in the event of a burden increase like this, we expect purchasing power figures and income sketches. This information was not included in the explanatory memorandum. We actually got the only argument that it would be an average increase of €12 per month. No other example was given at that time. Average €12 per month. Period. And we had to do it as a room, when we all know that graduates deserve very different things. It also remained brief in the replies to the written consultations. A table containing information on its consequences for different study debts was missing. On our question of the impact on students, we received estimates of income of €20,000, €40,000 and €80,000. The most favorable picture was sketched, not the full picture. Only after answers to questions from the committee, after further questions and after further questions, and later when asking factual questions, did there become more clarity; only then. And then it turned out that the Minister had sketched a very rosy picture. Mr. Chairman. The latest figures we have show that the increase in interest rates can have quite a number of different effects, including for people we desperately need and who are certainly not many-earners, such as teachers or nurses. The figures show that the average secondary school teacher pays an average student debt of €21,000 net €5,000 extra in interest. A household with one and a half modes can count on €8,000 in extra costs for a high student debt, for example, of €31,000. A nurse with a modest debt of €11,000, modest, has lost €2,500 extra. But let's face it: these income cards are also drawing table reality, because we still don't know for sure. In recent years, this government has borrowed at unprecedentedly low interest rates. The government even made a profit on the current study loans because of these negative interest rates. If we look at the daily rates, we can see that the government is making 0.28% today by lending money. In other words, the government today makes about €2.30 out of every €1,000 that a student borrows. If I'm wrong, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. But without setting a maximum, without a ceiling or an upper limit, we saddle students with great uncertainty. For how sure do we know and do the Minister know what they will pay for their student loans in ten years' time? Between 1998 and 2007, the average ten-year interest rate was 4.43%, which was as much as 7.21% between 1990 and 1997. We can't predict the future, but if the past has taught us something, then it's that interest rates are often going to rise. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to set a ceiling for a maximum rate of interest in line with our previous proposal. And can the Minister map out if students benefit from shorter repayment periods? Because now we're thinking of policies that have an impact until at least the year 2055. And is the Minister also prepared to agree that the higher proceeds from the interest rate increase than currently estimated can be returned to students? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. It should be clear: GroenLinks understands very little about the intention to increase student interest rates. With a quick search we may find the VVD, but that is what we will hear as a potential supporter of bringing students back to pay for deficits that arise elsewhere in the budget. The other parties seem, at least in the media, no longer to support it. That is why we would like to appeal to the Minister and the other parties in this Chamber for some creativity. Because it's too easy to cut back on students again. Our call is to get the money that's needed from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan, who speaks on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr. Chairman. Why don't we listen to the students? We decide here in the Lower House about all kinds of groups, but many of the groups we decide on are underrepresented here. This applies to women, which is the case for sixty-five people over the age of 65. But above all for students: they are not represented here at all. And just when a group is not represented in the Chamber, you have to look extra closely and listen to that group that you are making policies and legislation for. You have to be extra careful with the measures you come up with here in politics The Hague. The conclusion is that these students feel caught over and over again. Let me summarise, for the sake of clarity, the position of DENK. We're against the loan system, and we've always been against it. The debt system is not as social as it is told. We believe that this should be abolished. And we are also opposed to increasing interest rates on those student loans. Students must already be heavily involved in student debt. We just don't think it's normal. And even higher interest rates are an extra blow to their face and an extra hit on their future wallet. What's DENK for? We are in favour of reintroducing the basic grant. We are in favour of a 0% interest rate on existing and future student loans. And we are in favour of accessible and accessible education for all, including for parents who are not broad. Since these students are not represented, I still want to make their voices heard. First of all Luuk de Leest, student of digital media at the Hogeschool voor de Kunsten Utrecht. He would like to ask the Minister to respond to a number of criticisms. Luuk says: "I have the idea that every week there will be something new that will make the future of the current student look a little darker." He says: "I have never protested, but I have a strong feeling that in The Hague they really have no idea what they are doing. They're entering the loan system, saying that doesn't have a negative impact on your future mortgage, and that the savings go to education. Then only part of that amount goes to education, and follows the news about that BKR registration. How can you explain that?" He says: "I doubted whether I would go on studying; I wanted to, but that would mean that my student debt would go up to that €21,000." This is not the way we should think in the Netherlands. Lening is just not normal. €21,000 is not normal for a lot of people. And what does the Minister answer to Luuk van Leest? Or is she gonna send him in with a rug in the reeds? Then another critical student, equally random: Splinter Chabot, a big man at the VVD, a kind of Mark Rutte junior. "The JOVD considers its own financial contribution to be more than normal, but the government should not squeeze out the student." Very good, Splinter Chabot, you put the splinter in the sore spot. And it's too bad their own VVD doesn't listen. What does the Minister think of this criticism? Dan Lotte Skipper, the big lady of CDA-young people. I can see Mr Van der Molen brightening up. Some kind of Monica Keijzer junior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mona.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yeah, Mona Keijzer Junior. "The introduction of the loan system was the start of the debt generation. From this moment on, education became unattainable and priceless for a large group of young people. With the increase in interest rates, this problem is only getting worse." That's very good, Lotte, you put that right! Too bad the CDA isn't doing anything about it. Too bad it doesn't affect their government in the Lower House. Mr Van der Molen is going to cry alligator tears. Mr. Buma did. They say: we simply can't help it; we'll let you take a motion at the congress; we'll pretend you have a kind of surrogate, but we're not going to do anything with it, because this is just going to go on. This is what is in the coalition agreement. I ask the Minister: what is her critical reaction to Lotte's words? Are we creating a debt generation now, as Lotte says? People who start their adult lives with a millstone around their necks. Mr. Chairman. And then a not entirely random student, Carline van Breugel from Eindhoven, chairman of the National Student Union, thus representing a very large group of students. She says: "Students are angry, and the main reason for this anger is that students have to continue to be in debt in order to be able to study." That makes education less accessible. If your parents haven't studied, like my parents, or if you have a migration background, you're not going to study so fast. If your name is Van Meenen and you've studied, that's perfectly normal. The government is there for all Dutch to encourage that study and to give everyone equal opportunities. But now the opposite is happening. Besides, the government wants to get the money where there's no money. Mrs Westerveld has already indicated that promises have been made three years ago. The interest rate stays low. Education will not be less accessible. You can just buy a house later. All these appointments are being violated. Students from now on will be paying off their pension, up to 35 years. My party finds it very unhealthy to teach young people this. The Nibud speaks of this with great concern. 1.5 million people are in big debt. 700,000 people have debts they can't pay off. It's just not normal. It's really weird that the government is encouraging this, and it's actually saying, lend it to you. With three clicks on the DUO website you get free money every month. But the hard blow doesn't come until you want to buy a house and work with a flex contract at a school. The government is putting a generation of people out of business in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u58	My name is Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u59	I wasn't talking about you. I was talking about Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u60	Oh, you said if your name is Van Meenen. Well, I think I'm the only one in the room named Van Meenen. That's what I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u61	I didn't say I was talking about you. There are also people who look at home who are called Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u62	Those people might know that, too. So, for the Acts, I went to college. I was a first-generation student. And that at a time when there wasn't even a basic grant. That period also existed once, I would just like to say to Mr Azarkan for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u63	I hear that Mr Van Meenen received three child benefit payments at that time as compensation. No, your parents got it. Your parents also paid for your studies, I suspect. Or you've been working on it. It's all possible. Mr. Chairman. I'd like a comment...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mr President, this is absurd, isn't it? Let me tell you something about my childhood. Shall we talk about that? Well, then it's gonna be a really nice debate this morning. Mr President, I think you should say something about this. This just can't be. He starts speculating...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u65	I didn't mean to say anything wrong about Mr Van Meenen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u66	You say a lot of things. You're suggesting everything my parents would have done. You don't know anything. You don't know anything about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u67	I'm not suggesting anything. I didn't say anything about you. I talked about Meenen. I didn't talk about you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u68	No, you're talking about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u69	All right, continue, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr President, I propose that what I have said about this should be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u71	It's not like that these days. You take it back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u72	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u73	Okay, well, then that's cleared up, too. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u74	If that hurts Mr Van Meenen, that's not good. Mr. Chairman. I would like a response from the Minister to Carline's criticism. Does the Minister take the president of the National Student Union seriously? Mr. Chairman. I mentioned a number of individual students, but the criticism is widely shared. This is also evident from the internet consultation of the current legislative proposal. A large majority of respondents object to this bill to a greater or lesser extent. They mentioned a number of points. The point that has been made most of it, including by student organisations, is that this measure would reduce the accessibility of higher education, especially for certain groups. Another point made by respondents is the link they make with the abolition of the basic grant. They refer to the Higher Education Act. This law contained a combination of measures, including an adaptation to the refund conditions. The fact that interest rates are being adjusted so quickly is seen by some as unfair. The third category was critical of the purpose of the bill, because the comments indicate that perhaps a small proportion of students are borrowing more than is necessary, but that the others would no longer be disadvantaged. They should not be penalised by that higher interest rate. The last category, the fourth, is about the pressure students are now experiencing. That pressure will only increase if the interest rate increases. The Nibud writes about this: we should not underestimate the psychic strength of debt. Finally, the LSVb points to government initiatives to reduce debt issues and the relationship with the proposal. I would like to conclude with a technical question. My question is, who actually came up with this? My fellow Members have already asked questions about this. Is this an idea of the Christian Union and the CDA? The Minister suggested this sideways once, as I read in the Leiden University Weekly Magazine Mare, but I may be wrong. I'd like to know. Or was it the idea of the VVD, or was it the idea of D66? Then there's the technical question. Do I read correctly that the interest rate will be fixed each year on the basis of the yields of bonds? Indeed, it says literally: "Our Minister shall fix annually by December an interest rate equal to the average effective rate of return over the period of 12 months, calculated from October of the previous year to September of the current year, of the public loan issued by the State of the Netherlands and admitted to listing on the official market on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, with an average remaining maturity of 5 years." Are you still there? I'd like to hear from the minister in ordinary human language what she's talking about. Very briefly, finally, in summary. Student and youth organisations are furious about the plan to increase student interest on student debt from 2020. They're calling on the House of Representatives to take this bill off the table. So do we as DENK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u75	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to the Cabinet, the proposed amendment to the Study Finance Act 2000, which will adjust the interest rate measure, should improve the sustainability of public finances. Mr Futselaar has already made an impressive speech on this. From this place, I'd like to compliment him on that. Mr. Chairman. The yield would be 226 million in structural terms. We do not see anything in this amendment to the law. If the cabinet had really been about sustainability, it could also have chosen not to abolish the dividend tax; I will just mention what. The cabinet could also have chosen not to respond to those beggings of a pop singer from the United States and not to "invest" 100 million in education in developing countries. 100 million. Another minister, for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in this case, of the self-proclaimed teaching party D66 who does not hesitate to take the money out of our students' pockets and distribute it to foreign students. Mr. Chairman. Following the introduction of the loan system, which the PVV has always opposed, including together with the CDA, now a coalition party, students would be somewhat matched by investing universities and colleges of higher education in improving the quality of higher education. This would be done through the so-called pre-investment. We have talked about it here, colleagues have already mentioned it. But those promised pre-investments didn't come off the ground. They were not or barely carried out in higher education, and this was also demonstrated by the destructive report of the General Court of Auditors. A destructive report. Nevertheless, the cabinet feels it is necessary to make students even more intimate by basing interest on student loans on the ten-year rate rather than on the five-year rate. By stressing, for that is what the Minister is doing, that interest rates will still be much lower than the interest rates applied to other loans and loans, the Minister may cynically and in anointing tone down the consequences of this change in the interest rate rate rate rate in the explanatory memorandum, but there is no doubt that this change will have an additional impact on the accessibility of our higher education to our Dutch students. Our students are already being supplanted by internationalisation, by the engelsing that goes with it. They currently have to compete with 122 foreign students when it comes to the numerus fixus, when it comes to living space, when it comes to personal guidance. This is at the expense of accessibility. This increase in interest rates will be added shortly after the introduction of the loan system. Mr. Chairman. We note that the government has no regard for the psychology of the student, more specifically of the first-generation student, the student should be able to find his way to higher education for the first time in his family. It is precisely the parents and children whom we, as well as Mr. Azarkan, are allowed to count among our supporters, the people who work hard to keep their heads above water, who have trouble leaving anything at the end of the month. The people who suffer most from the uncertainty that globalisation brings. Those are the people who are in the same position as the people who are now demonstrating in France in their yellow shackles. Those are the people who are reluctant to take on long-term loans. Loan anxiety, the fear of borrowing that lives in our constituency, has been a harsh reality since the abolition of the basic grant, and this measure will only encourage it further. These students and their parents think it is already irresponsible to study because they do not want to overload themselves with debt. Now this debt becomes even higher and even more talented young people from that part of society, our part of society, will be de facto excluded from a study in higher education. The competition with the 122 foreign students and the ensnaring of the education that goes with it, together with the increased interest rate, provide our people with an image of an unreliable government that is not there for them but for the cosmopolitan elite and the rich. Mr. Chairman. For a party that never misses a moment to speak out for accessibility and that never misses a moment to position itself as the teaching party, this is the moment that Emperor loses his clothes. This also applies to the other parties who will vote in favour of this amendment at the end of the day. I therefore very much hope that all those students who are now opposed to this plan, who are now so angry, will finally realise that the parties to which they and masse are voting are responsible for a higher education which is becoming less and less accessible and less affordable. Almost every week I speak to young people who did have the plan to go through that long way, from the vmbo and that stacking up to the mbo, mbo-3, mbo-4, to higher education. They're gonna give it up. They renounce it because they're being deterred by the idea of a lifelong debt. Last Friday, I spoke to a girl like that intrusively. Because the effects of this plan will not be limited to the accessibility of our higher education. No, this proposed change will also result in even more pressure on the starters who can barely afford a starter's home, let alone the creation of a family. We must not forget that higher education streamers do not all end up in the best paid careers, in multinationals and banks. Most will work in health care, in education, in jobs where no large salaries with bonuses are dragged in at all. They are the people who 35 years with a now higher residual debt with the hat in their hand have to go to the bank to talk off a mortgage. But in the end, there may still be some hope on the horizon for our students. It's already been memorized by other colleagues. I did it at the time. The CDA youngsters, the CDJA, like the PVV and other parties here think that changing the interest rate measure is an extremely bad plan. During the CDA Congress on 3 November, by means of a resolution adopted, they instructed the party to maintain that five-year limit, to annoy the party leadership which was keen not to adopt this resolution. The long history of the CDA teaches us that adopted resolutions from their own parties are not simply put aside. It has never even happened that an adopted resolution was not implemented. That is likely to happen now, while the same party is eagerly taking our PVV into account when it comes to internal party democracy. There you stand CDA, with your big mouth about internal commitment with the members, about listening to each other! I expect only that the CDA or the coalition agreement will break open today to do justice to that conference resolution, or at least come up with an appropriate solution to get the proposed savings of 226 million from somewhere else. Just agreeing to this change of law would be very unbelievable. Then I would say, a bit in the tale Canaans: you sell your special position for a plate of lentil soup.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you. I call Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing Kirsten van den Hul, our spokesperson in the education sector. She's sick. I have a history in education, so I like to get involved in that education debate for once. Because so much is happening in our society. It's 2018. I do Social Affairs myself, the future of work. We can see that jobs change very quickly. We live in a digital revolution. Many people's lives are getting a little insecure, especially when they look to the future. The creed, at least with Social Affairs, is: we need to train people well. The younger generation also wants solid ground under its feet. They want to be sure of a bright future. Training is vital. You don't know exactly how the sectors are gonna change and how they're gonna relate. We cannot give that answer politically either, but we must guarantee political certainty for everyone. If you feel that solid ground under your feet, you can also look forward. I was glad to get involved in the education debate. I've studied the law and what amazes me? In times of major changes, in times of great questions about how to deal with the rapid changes in employment, jobs, care, housing, where many young people find it difficult to intervene and are therefore rightly uncertain about their future prospects, this cabinet shows itself as a cabinet of accountants, looking after the store. What do you expect in such an education debate? That we're gonna watch how we train people, how we're gonna put people on solid ground, so they can look forward. But no, what this cabinet does, after a severe financial crisis, with huge financial surpluses, is good care for our companies. We have seen this with all the measures that favour business. But in all other areas, the cabinet does not look at the people. The big question to this cabinet and to this minister is: will this minister look after the store and look after the financial sustainability? Or are they going to mean something to all those people, including the students? I've looked closely at the law and I honestly don't understand it. Mr Futselaar has really made an extensive speech on the content, the presentation, the consequences and so on. But I've just got to say, I'm a pretty simple soul, that it's just a really bad law. There's no basis whatsoever. I hear all kinds of parties, including in the coalition, who are very concerned about the accessibility of education. There is no need at this time to increase the burden on students by an average of €5,000, indeed, Mr. Van Meenen, once you work longer term. What is the ratio of this law, I ask the Minister. There's no financial reason to do it. The students don't want it. The students mainly ask for security and for accessible higher education. They're asking for a certain future. The cabinet answers that: we're going to increase the burden for you a little bit. While we are just dealing with a new system, which the original parties said: "We must nurture accessibility, we must pay close attention to it. We will be careful in the coming years and years to ensure that accessibility, wherever you come from, exists for everyone and that you can get into higher education in this way." I note that with this law, three years after the introduction of the social loan system, this cabinet has absolutely no regard for that. I call on the Minister to withdraw this bill, please. What's the ratio behind it? And above all: is the cabinet, is this minister, willing to reinvest the proceeds, which are over 200 million, in higher education, should they introduce this law? We have to wait and see how this debate is going, but we see that the coalition parties are holding each other. Then you're not talking about financial sustainability, you're talking about an investment in students themselves, when they would have to pay a little more for it themselves. My call and our call is: go rule in times of great demand for the future and stop bullying students. Don't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u79	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u80	Thank you, Mr President. A training course at a vocational training or university contributes to a bright future perspective. Nice, challenging work that suits you, with an income that can make your life fun. An income that is usually higher than if you had not done that education. For the VVD it is therefore logical that students invest in their own future and perspective, by putting time and energy into their studies and by funding their study time themselves, so that money from the treasury can be spent on the high quality and further improvement of our education. The study advance system is designed to support students in this regard. It is a fair system, which prevents the street maker from having to contribute through his taxes to money for the student son of the consultant. A fair system, which offers many guarantees to be able to borrow almost without risk. Yes, a fair and social system for all young people in the Netherlands who want and can study. For the VVD, the high quality of education is at the forefront now and in the future, for the students of today and for the students of the future. This is also possible by making the study advance future-proof. Today we are talking about that future. Then we are talking about a technical and financial element of the study advance. We have heard a number of speeches about this, with a lot of big words and a large number of misconceptions, but that aside. Despite the imagination of the human mind, some things are very difficult to imagine. What EUR 226 million looks like, for example. That's really hard to imagine. What I'm worried about in 20 years, for example. I can't imagine that right now. When I was 21, I couldn't imagine that I'd ever have a child who was about to go to college myself. But those are exactly the things this bill is about. With the present amendment of the law, the interest charged on student loans is fixed not for five years but for ten years. It is now the case that the State is losing on student loans. I have heard a question about it and I would also like to hear the Minister's answer. The interest paid by the government on the outstanding student loans is greater than what the government will get back if the loans are repaid. What if the law is not amended and the five-year interest rate is maintained? Then this will lead to a substantial loss in the budget of OCW, not this year, not next year, but in many years in the future. And that's just really hard to imagine. But for the students of then, in the future, there is therefore less money available for good education. That is less available because a credit is now being taken on that future. There can be far too little investment in the quality of education. Yeah, I'm gonna get a little mad. And so I would rather not imagine what such a shortage of the future education budget for the quality of education looks like. We don't want to put that bill with future generations of students. And that's why this bill is ahead of us. Today's students, as highly skilled workers, are going to repay their loans at an interest rate which also reduces current interest rates, so that the education budget will also remain sustainable in the long term. Don't push it, take it. That's where you'll recognize the VVD. That proposal is now before us, no more and no less. And some would like to flatten it with slogans like: students are plucked bald. As much as some people want to smash it with it, it's just not true. So let me rebut those slogans with force. The fairness of the system remains as it is. The loan terms remain favourable. The repayment period remains wide. It takes you 35 years, you don't have to. The repayment remains partly dependent on the carrying capacity. And the additional grants for disadvantaged parents continue to apply without prejudice to some of the students. In fact, the additional stock market is going to rise. In addition, there is a lot of extra money going to education itself, to keep quality high and to further increase it. And that's what we like to see. In this way, any young person who can and will can study for his own future perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u81	To stay in the words of the VVD: not to move forward, but to take it away. I think that's the credo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u82	Wow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u83	That's not bad at all, because that's exactly what the VVD does. They keep a whole financial story. It is said that there are good conditions and that the social loan system offers all kinds of advantages. But the essence is that the rules of the game are changed three years after the introduction of the social loan system. Is that the essence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u84	The essence is that the redemption amounts are based on a different interest rate penalty. But this is already happening on a regular basis because interest rates are adjusted to market interest rates. This is because the State does not want to make any losses or profits on student loans. So it makes perfect sense for things to fluctuate in there. We simply do not want that to happen in the future. And I maintain that I find Mr. Van Dijk's remark faint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u85	Luckily, I'm dealing with my own words. This is a reasoning that is held from the point of view of financial sustainability. But this will lead to an increase in the burden on workers in the future. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u86	That's right, yes, to carrying capacity. So if one party with the VVD should look at that honestly, that would be the PvdA. So I expected a different opinion from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u87	I have to conclude: it is not "not to move forward, but to tackle," but it is "slide forward and take it away." It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u88	It is incorrect that the repayment in the loan system goes to carrying capacity. I'd like to make that right here. But that's not what my question is about. Mrs Tielen said that the current system will lead to huge deficits in education in the future. That's new to me, because it's not in the bill and it wasn't in the original loan system either. And it would also be very bad if that hadn't been said. Can Mrs. Tielen explain where that came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u89	That's a good question from Mr. Futselaar. I've heard all his questions about that. With the way I've looked at my pieces, I've read that in it. That could be wrong. In any case, however, it is a question of EUR 226 million missing in the future. Then it's gonna have to be covered somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u90	We do not know at all what will or will not be lacking in a totally fictional and hypothetical national budget in 2060. All we know is that this measure would generate 226 million. Well, even we don't know that, but it's claimed. But it is really something else if you say: without that measure there will be a shortage. Because then you're suggesting there's a big problem. I don't see that problem. Does Mrs. Tielen share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u91	What I see again is that the interest we will get back from the outstanding loans in the future is inadequate in relation to what is being paid by the State. I think that's just a waste of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u92	I have just argued that I think that this is very little. I have noted that Mrs Tielen said that it is not the intention to make a profit on the loan system, so I will also discuss this with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u93	That's where Mr. Futzelaar and I really find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u94	I think Mr Futselaar has already made it very clear in his own speech that there was really no point in amending this law. Mr Futselaar and colleague Westerveld have already explicitly raised the question: whose tube is this from? Where did this come from? I would like to ask you that, Mrs Tielen. But I have one more question. Maybe that shelf life story has something to do with the fact that you're in the process of compensating for future losses? We are now talking, for example, about 122,000 foreign students who also benefit from these loans. In the future, it may be very difficult to collect interest and refunds. I am thinking, for example, of Romanian and Bulgarian students. I think it's going to be a huge effort for DUO to do that. That's gonna make huge losses. This whole internationalization is gonna cost us a lot of money. Is this measure intended to compensate for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u95	I think Mr. Beertema is asking two questions. I'll answer them one at a time. The first question was: whodunit? We've seen a number of literary forms come along this morning: science fiction, the whodunit, who did it. There is simply a coalition agreement, in which both the short and the long term we have looked primarily at the quality of education, at the accessibility of education and, ultimately, at the sustainability of education. That is what our signature is underneath, and I don't think it matters very much who said what at what point at which table. It is simply the agreement that we have made with each other and which has also been discussed and discussed extensively here in the Chamber, and which we can find the majority of the Chamber behind, point. Mr. Beertema's other question was a treatise on international students. I recognize Mr. Beertema in that, of course. Mr Beertema also knows that I asked the Minister to separate the estimates for international students every year during the budgetary procedure, so that we can also have an insight into them. In the end, I believe that an international vision of education will benefit the Netherlands, so that we can guarantee and further improve its quality. That's the lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u96	I know that racket. I asked: is it known to you, Mrs Tielen, that there are concerns about the collection of refunds from Romanian and Bulgarian students now and in the future? That's what I asked, because that's gonna cost us a lot of money. Is that familiar to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u97	It doesn't surprise me, let me put it this way. The other questions that Mr Beertema asks, I would like to ask the Minister via Mr Beertem; we can actually ask them in a few years' time. That 86.4% has already come through here a few times. What's the value of that percentage? In other words, what's the actual behavior gonna be like later? We don't know yet. But, yes, governance is foresight. You make plans based on assumptions. With moving insight you adapt it, in order to eventually achieve your goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u98	In conclusion: our Dutch students are stuck with an extra debt and all kinds of students from Romania and Bulgaria are no longer to be found. That money's just gone. That's our money. That's just gone. Our Dutch students are taking the fall for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u99	I listened very carefully to Mrs Tielen. In particular, I am interested in the justification. She says: "This is not fair, because the government pays more than the students pay. The duration of the loans that the government takes out is longer than that five years of the present and therefore it needs to be adjusted from five to ten. Then that's more in line." When did the VVD know about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Azarkan is not quoting me quite correctly, but that may not be relevant to his question either. I do not fully understand the relevance of his question when the VVD knew this either. Eventually, the VVD is constantly working, and so you also recognize the VVD, to calculate the sustainability of the financial base for now, for next year but also for the distant future. On this basis, we agree to ensure that, in this case, quality and accessibility of education remains high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mr Tielen walks around it skilfully. My question is very simple: when this system was introduced, expectations were raised among students and fellow parties, who agreed on these principles. At that time, I think it was already known at what interest rate and what duration the government covered those government bonds in relation to what was lent to students. If you knew that at the time, then either you or you misrepresented things by linking it to the five-year rate or you were asleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u102	That's a good question. I wasn't there myself, so maybe I slept at the time. In the introduction of the study advance system, assumptions were made that were well substantiated and considered. But sometimes things change over time. When that was, I daren't say. I must therefore remain guilty of Mr Azarkan's question. But I do not know to what extent that is relevant to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u103	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u104	The VVD is not known for, certainly not lately, that she thinks very carefully before things are done. We have seen many test balloons passing by that were not worked out and encountered a great deal of resistance from parliament and cabinet. So I'm not surprised, but this is really different. I think you're killing yourself a little too easily. Would you like to find out, because I think it is essential what we are doing here in Parliament. Even though we have information that shows that the principles were already known at the time, we still have to say to a group of students and to parties that it is five years that we have thought carefully about. If that was known at the time, then that, again, is a misrepresentation of things, which I want to have properly sorted out. Has the maturity of government bonds changed in recent years? Or was it said with the information from back then that's how we're gonna do it? And is that being changed now? I find it a little too easy when the VVD says: that's our way of working, that's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u105	I think Mr Azarkan's suggestion is too easy. I am throwing it far away from me to pretend that there was hidden information at the time. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. We just need to look at the legislative proposal as it stands, at the financial sustainability for now, next year and especially in the longer term. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u106	I'm asking...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u107	Third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u108	We see...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u110	What we see in practice is that a number of parties say: this was not the agreement. What we see in practice is that a lot of groups of students also feel a little misled. They say, "Why adapt so quickly?" Then be honest, the proposal would have been submitted then, and if you had information then, if the maturity of the government bonds was about the same as now, you just deliberately linked them to the five-year interest rate. At that time, this sustainability was not a problem, which I think is a bullshit argument. The sustainability of the state's budget and the state's finances, for which this really does nothing at all. That's what we discuss occasionally in the finance committee, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u111	You're straying a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u112	Yeah, I'm a little off. That's a bit of a bullshit argument, but I'll look for it. My very specific question is therefore when the VVD knew that this did not work out with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u113	That will have been around the discussion of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u114	I find this a little too easy from the biggest government party. Mrs Tielen just literally said that she has heard a number of parties here mentioning misdemeanours. She then said that this was about the sustainability of public finances and explained it a little more than the Minister did. She says that if we do not raise interest rates now, future generations will be at risk or that we will have to cut back on future generations. Then Mr Futselaar rightly asks for an explanation and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u115	You're not going to sum up the whole debate, are you, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u116	No, I'll come to my question. I can't help but wonder how this is going. If you say to Mr Futselaar that you may have misread the law or the explanatory statement...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u117	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u118	...are you prepared to withdraw this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u119	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u120	It'll get a little comical. Mrs Tielen has just said that she may have misread the explanatory statement. But that is the argument on which it is based that we need to introduce that increase in interest rates. Then I would like to ask Mrs Tielen why this increase in interest rates should be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u121	I think Mrs Westerveld is a little faint, too. She puts words in my mouth. In the end, it's about what we want or don't want with repaid debts. How do they relate to the money the government spends on it? There's too big a hole in that now that needs to be closed. This measure is not entirely implemented, but to a large extent. I think it's best for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u122	With how many, I'd like to ask. GroenLinks doesn't see a big hole and from a number of other parties I've also heard that they don't see a big hole. So what's that big hole that the VVD says needs to be closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u123	I think you can just read that back in the explanatory memorandum to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u124	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u125	Thank you, Mr President. In future cases, this amendment will base the interest rate on study loans on the ten-year rate rather than on the five-year rate. That is now well known, I'm guessing. This means that in the future workers with an adequate income will have to pay more €21,000 per month on an average loan of €12 per month: instead of €70, they will pay €82. Paying more is never fun. That is why this measure was not included in our electoral programme, not in the accounts or whatever, and it is certainly not our favourite in the government agreement. Much more favorite is what we can do, namely an investment of 1.9 billion in education. That's very nice. Education is therefore the biggest investment and the highest priority. Mr. Chairman. This measure does not affect the quality of education or the financial position of students. That is why D66 considers this measure to be justified. When the loan scheme was introduced, an average interest rate of 2.5% was taken into account, since all the calculations in the legislative proposal were based on a 35-year lease. At the moment, the interest rate is virtually zero percent. Ten-year interest rates on average stood at 2.56% over the last ten years. I believe that at the moment it is only half a percent, you must imagine. I believe that I am the only one here who was present in the negotiations on the loan system. At that time the forecast was 2.5% interest rate with a maturity of five years. Now the ten-year interest rate is only half a percent. So it's different times. The ten-year interest rate in recent years was, on average, exactly the 2.5% that we had in mind at the time to keep the system affordable. This measure does not, therefore, affect very much the situation in which GroenLinks, the Labour Party, the VVD and my own party voted in favour at that time. Mr. Chairman. Another important condition for a study loan is that no one should fall into a plightful financial position because of that loan. Access to higher education is always a priority for D66. If I had any idea that by taking measures here, there would be one student in this country who couldn't go to college, I would never have signed it. But it's not. The social conditions of the loan system and the load-bearing arrangements protect workers from high monthly charges. Up to 4% of income above the minimum wage may be spent on such reimbursement. Let's make a comparison. It is of course not new that there is a loan system, there was already a loan system: the old loan system, with up to 12% of your income being repaid above the welfare standard. This led to very large reimbursement charges per month. Therefore, in spite of the limited increase in debt, it is much easier to obtain a mortgage under the new system than under the old system. The fact that students are now joining the bank and are difficult to get a home is, to start with, that old students are dealing with the housing market. Let us make no mistake about that. Something must be done about this, but that is not the issue today. Mr. Chairman. If the loan is not repaid at the end of the repayment period, the remainder shall be cancelled. Mostly those whose income is sufficient are going to pay a slightly higher interest rate. Unemployed persons or workers with a lower salary pay less or nothing in return and in the event of equal debt they are covered by the burden-sharing scheme. So only the strong shoulders bear the burden of this interest rate increase. Mr. Chairman. The new loan system is more social and therefore focuses on access to education. Students who can't afford it are entitled to a supplementary scholarship there was also a little bit about "refunding" which they didn't have to pay back. This has been substantially increased with the introduction of the new loan system. The conditions for repayment, I have already said, have been greatly relaxed. The payment period has gone to 35 years, which means that the monthly amount is so low. All the problems that now appear in the media about student loans and mortgages are therefore about the old system and, at least in my view, create unnecessary borrowing fears. I'd almost like to say, "Learning Fear? No, fear of study, fear of study." That's very bad. We shouldn't do that. We are all playing a part in this. The information to the new students should really remain. With that, I also look at the public gallery with a oblique eye. In addition, the new loan system ensures that a huge investment can be made in higher education. I know there has been a lot to do about the pre-investment. That is right; I am also very critical of that. But when it comes to the investments that the government itself makes, they are going to happen. We have seen that in the budget. Next year there will be a net €577 million extra to higher education for smaller groups, better guidance, more teachers and you name it all. The students have the right to consent to where that money goes. In particular, I have strongly advocated this. It was a condition for us to agree to the loan system at all. This will give a huge boost to the quality of education. That's what it was all about: where do you want education money to land? I still do not understand why, for example, the SP believes that the basic grant should come back. That's money for young people who really don't need it. It is an extremely curious reasoning of the SP that I simply cannot understand. When Princess Amalia turns 18, she gets another basic scholarship from the SP. That's basically what it's all about. I think we are doing much better than that. This is still about lending system itself, so that the money does not necessarily go to students from higher-income families, but to the quality of education. This will be of the best benefit to them. That is also why we chose to increase the supplementary grant at the time. That is money that is really needed to ensure accessibility. That is why the supplementary grant has also been increased and that is why today I can fully explain why this is a good measure: both for quality and for accessibility. Mr. Chairman. Finally. In the written round, D66 asked for the effect of this modified interest rate measure on the early repayment and thus on the financial consequences. It is conceivable that with a higher or an increasing interest rate people will start to pay off early. This is not taken into account in the calculation of the financial impact. Only additional interest income is expected, but no interest received lost by pay-off. The Minister states that it is unknown what this effect is. However, it also indicates that early or additional repayment should be taken into account, thus avoiding interest charges. This also happened on a large scale at the 15-year repayment period in the old loan scheme. Especially in the event of an increase in interest rates, this is expected to happen. This may reduce the financial impact. Can the Minister explain why this effect is not taken into account at all in the financial consequences? Finally, Mr President. D66 finds it strange that the ten-year interest rate is introduced, but is still fixed every five years. This gives you the burden, but not the certainty of a ten-year anniversary. If you applied for a mortgage, you'd never agree to it. D66 wants interest rates to fluctuate less, so that more security is created for workers paying off their student loans. This can be done, for example, by taking an average over the ten-year interest rate. This is also better in line with the situation during the study, with interest rates for each year borrowed. As a result, at the beginning of the repayment period you have an average interest rate over the time you borrowed. The Minister stated that this would promote interest arbitrage or borrowing on the commercial market. D66 may have different expectations and find this difficult to estimate because government bonds are always more creditworthy than other loans and because students, like us, cannot know how interest rates will change in the future. I'd like a response from the Minister. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u126	It's December 5th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u128	That's a beautiful day, and it might be a beautiful day to do something beautiful. I am in a constructive mood; perhaps so is Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u129	Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u130	Well, that's good. Mr Van Meenen said at the beginning: this is not one of our favourite measures in the coalition agreement. Now, in the Nijboer/Stoffer amendment, we have proposed not to do so. And we can also cover that nicely, because of the expat scheme above the beaming standard, you know: the people who come from outside and who get all kinds of discounts here to abolish. That seems very reasonable to me. I think it would be a good idea to make that proposal together today. Then we can fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr Van Dijk also knows what it's like in coalition country: you get something and sometimes you lose something. I am not in a position to accept such a proposal and I am not in a position to do so. I might want to, if we lived in a completely free world, but we didn't. We've made agreements, and I'm sticking to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u132	We do know how this works and that it is sometimes quite complicated with some partners. If you do this, you'll get over $200 million. Could we say that we are investing this back in education? That is in fact your plea for the introduction of the social loan system. If we can take that step, we're really gonna achieve something today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u133	Well, let's be. The effect of this measure is still a long time to come; we are just two elections away. Let's talk to each other around that time, then we can always see what we write down on this in our election programmes. For as I have just said, in the left-wing counter-budget, I have just said that I have not seen anything about it. It's always possible to make things better than they are right now. I'm open to that, but right now I don't see any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u135	Yes. Do I really have to leave, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u136	Well, that would be nice, because then finally Mr Van der Molen can keep his story. Thank you. Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meenen said: we can do it together. Well, I guess I'll start reading. Then Mr Van Meenen can determine whether that would have been a good thing. Mr. Chairman. A majority in this Chamber introduced the loan system in 2015. To this day, a thin majority in this Chamber is still in favour of that system. But that's up to Mr Van Meenen, from day one, there are looming errors in it. For example, the pre-investments that students would benefit from barely came. It's already been mentioned. This week, at the UvA, we saw the development that, if agreements are to be made at university level, the staff understanding will decide on the investments together with the board vis-à-vis the students. I thought that was a strange figure, but I also wonder what the Minister thinks about that. It was also said that student loans wouldn't count for your mortgage, but they do in practice. We see, in particular, that young people coming from lower-income families are less likely to decide to study because of the loan system and perhaps decide not to study at all. It is for this reason that the CDA was not in favour and is in favour of the loan system. And it is also for that reason that we tried to do something about it in this Chamber at different times and points. But from the beginning there were also a number of other critical points from the CDA on the loan system. We said: you have to look at longer-term funding. The criticism was that it would be very easy under this system to borrow as much as possible. In practice, we see both developments emerging. The total amount of outstanding loans is already at 21 billion. If you just look at the number of students in the coming years, that amount will increase rapidly. And we also know that not all these loans will be repaid in full, so that at some point they will have to be charged. Because that limited funding that we are seeing now is actually the austerity of the future. Many Members of Parliament have said that we cannot look that far into the future. No one can, and I can't, but I know that if we don't fund this solidly, we're actually saying that we think it's acceptable that the maximum loans that are being made at the moment should be borne in the total government finances at some point. Then the graduates will have to contribute to that. This problem is also socially increased by the maximum borrowing. There's been a lot of calls, and I've had those conversations, too. More and more young people say that it is quite easy to borrow as much as possible, and not only for expenditure on studies, but that it also plays a role in this process that students, and in any case new students, are currently feeling that loans are historically cheap and that you are a thief of your own wallet if you don't borrow maximum. The current five-year interest rate is not helping. In the discussion of the loan system a few years ago, my colleague Michel Rog called it 'the State as an ATM'. So you can borrow from the state incredibly cheap. This is good for accessibility, but it is not a sensible choice for social reasons, and hence for the longer term government finances. If we apply the ten-year interest rate, the loan you take will still get a very acceptable month's burden, especially if you get a job later that doesn't make a lot of money, because very often you barely pay. But that is a more real price. And a more real price ensures that people, students, do not take on a maximum loan too easily. This responds to the concern that the CDA had from the very beginning, namely that we easily provide the younger generations with study debts. We therefore believe that the Minister's proposal can help to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u138	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u139	No, I am not ready, but I was just trying to get between Mr Futselaar, who is ready for an interruption, and to commute you, to see if you will finally give Mr Futselaar the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u140	No, because I want you to finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u141	Then I'll move on, Mr. Chairman. The application of the ten-year rate to student loans is a measure that raises short-term questions. They're placed in all space here, too. We have also put it in writing. However, as far as the CDA is concerned, the measure can be justified. I have mentioned a number of points for this. The financial viability of the loans, also in the future, and also in the future, we need to ensure that they increase, while the Empire still guarantees very low interest rates for those student loans. Current students, and for example students starting their studies next year, are not affected by the introduction of the ten-year interest rate. That's a misunderstanding I hear a lot. Current students are asked how they feel about that. Well, they may of course have an opinion on that, but that cannot be because they are involved, because that is not in the proposal. The cost increase will eventually be limited for graduate students, because you really have to earn far above the average, if you really want to notice a very explicit increase in your monthly expenses. This is supported by the load-bearing scheme in the loan system, but also by the conditions for repayment. I'm closing up. It is for this reason that the CDA Group considers these agreements in the coalition agreement to be justifiable and can also support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u142	First another correction: it is incorrect that the Empire guarantees a very low interest rate. The Empire links it to the ten-year bonds, but the interest rate can be as good as 7%, as it was in the early 1990s. I want to have said that anyway. I try to follow Mr Van der Molen's reasoning. He actually says that students borrow too much and that in the long term this will harm the government's finances, because a large part will not be repaid. That's how I get it. At the time you raise interest rates, students will be much more interested in paying interest. Then the amount remaining at the end, after 35 years, is probably only greater. With this measure you are actually causing an opposite effect. Does Mr Van der Molen see that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u143	No, I don't see that problem. I must also make assumptions on the basis of the information we receive from the Minister. It's over a longer period. I want to be real about us having to do that. First, on your first point. You said the government doesn't guarantee low interest rates. That's right. That interest rate could fluctuate in the future. The whole idea of paying 0% interest is from now on. It can even be negative, but it can also be very different. That's what we've seen in the past. For example, the ten-year rate was lower than the five-year rate. But that's also an exception. The Empire guarantees low interest rates, because if you compare it with other loans to be made on the capital market, you can never borrow anywhere better than on the basis of the creditworthiness of the government. I like that, too. That means that with the ten-year interest, as stated in the proposal, you meet students, because it is much lower than if you borrowed out there. I agree with you that a ten-year interest rate naturally has an effect on those debts. Mr Futselaar says that in the longer term it can ensure that you have to pay more off. That's right. That is in addition to the proposal. I can't get around that. Our expectation is that students, when they realize that they pay a more real interest for the student debt they incur, are less likely to take a loan for other expenses than for their studies. This also reduces the risk of maximum borrowing. I think that is not only financial but also socially sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u144	So now we have a situation where one coalition party says that the increase in interest rates doesn't matter, because there is no student who is not going to study because of that loan and the other says that the increase in interest rates is very visible to students and that they are therefore going to borrow less. It is one of two: either this is a very small measure that has no effect, or it is indeed a large measure that will affect the behaviour of students. But can I draw your attention from Mr Van Meenen's remarks, from his rather glowing speech on this proposal, that this was a CDA proposal in the coalition agreement? Is that where it's coming from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mr Futselaar addressed Mr Van Meenen, but he is not standing next to me. That's how we agreed when I got here. You made a false contradiction. Mr Van Meenen said that this would have no effect on the choice of study. In this case, I agree with Mr Van Meenen, because I agree with you, in principle, that the mere fact that you have to take on a loan now prevents young people from doing so, rather than increasing interest rates. That is still the reason why we share our opposition to the loan system. However, I think it is important that we ensure that those loans that are entered into are affordable and can also be financed for the longer term. The fact that I am quite clear and clear as to why the CDA considers this to be a explanatory proposal does not mean that I myself consider this to be glowful. Anyway, that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u146	Mr. Futselaar, I see you having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u147	I'm trying to get clarity out of the rub. Mr Van Meenen believes that the loan system has a negative effect on the number of people who are going to study, that the interest rate increase does not matter, but that it has an effect on how many...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u148	Leave Mr. Van Meenen alone for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u149	... students go to college. I'm sorry, did I say Van Meenen? Oh, excuse me. I meant Mr Van der Molen. I do not understand that reasoning. The loan system is very damaging. The interest rate increase doesn't matter before studying, but has a very big effect on how many students are going to study. Then you expect the same measure to have totally different effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u150	I did not say that last sentence, on which Mr Futselaar hangs the inconsistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u151	Then I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mr Van der Molen just indicated that this could be defended by the CDA. Now his congress said something else. During the CDA Congress, the group was urged not to agree to this. Do you think that you are enough to respond to that call from your own members?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u153	Members said that the CDA should not support this proposal. That's been a clear call at that conference. I would point out that we support that. So I can imagine that Members who voted in favour of that resolution at Congress will see a difference between them, and that is true. I'm here to defend that. There has been a lot of discussion about this: who did it, who is the blame and who takes responsibility? It is indeed a game here that everyone tries to run away from measures that are very difficult or difficult. The CDA has signed a government agreement. This means that we are also happy when other parties are kept to wishes that they themselves do not like. There are indeed measures that can also be difficult for us and for our own members, but that is what we stand for. And then I can say "it hurts" or whatever other qualification you can give it, but I can also explain why we think that is a defensible measure, and I am doing so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u154	Thank you also to Mr van der Molen for this openness and how he explains it. All the appreciation for that. My question was very specific: if you look now at the resolution that has been adopted and which called for this point to be discussed in the coalition agreement, have you given sufficient substance to it? Or do you say that we have just looked at it again as a group, and this is just our position and we think it can be defended?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u155	The moment you conclude a coalition agreement with each other, you make a total assessment. This means that you not only realize at this point that you have something to explain, but also in other areas and other areas. The big advantage of being in a coalition is that I might give you that for the next time, but you can do a lot of things that you're very happy about, that your congress is going to stand in front of the banks and that it's really fantastic, but that there are also a number of measures that you just have to stand for. That's just taking on some responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u156	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u157	I understand that and I think the reasoning from the CDA group is very good here, although I do not think it is entirely in line with the call, because what Mr Van der Molen is now describing, of course, the Members knew as well. Those members will adopt a resolution on behalf of the CDA at that conference in which they call for a discussion about this and simply not to sign it. So they knew there was a coalition agreement. You have been asked from your own members to discuss it. You say we don't. Well, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u158	The conference of the CDA is independent and decides for itself. I've been president of the CDA-young people in the past. Then sometimes I tried to get the convention, too, so I know firsthand how that works. That sometimes failed, more often than it did, but yes, that's the fact in the end. The fact is that a mandate from the electorate will then be used to conclude a government agreement here and that we must also implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u159	As a substitute, I'm still looking, in the sense of: does the real CDA want to get up? I hear the CDA in interruptions and also from the chair that is Mr Van der Molen's right to attack the social loan system with the question of how they could have imagined it, but in the meantime Mr Van der Molen is no longer in the opposition but in the coalition. That something didn't work out in the coalition meeting can happen, we know that. But one of the conditions is now being changed, namely an accessible, affordable social loan system. Then I expect the CDA to stand with us for those principles of the social loan system which are called to bear responsibility and say: at least this is not going to happen. What happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u160	Mr. Van der Molen, what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u161	There is a bit of resentment that you are falling in, but you are doing quite well, by the way, so that is not the point. You do not want to know how many debates I have tried to carry out on the edge of the cut and sometimes with support outside coalition parties in order to correct the promises your party has ever made to students and which are not being kept. That's the first thing. Two: if we were indeed convinced that this would be an extra large horde, we would certainly not do so. We are truly convinced that perhaps you should take that extra from someone who really does not have any warm feelings with regard to the loan system that this is defendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u162	Finally, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u163	This is such a double setup. It is perhaps the arrogance of the power that the CDA soon regains, because such an answer of course does not make any sense. I wish you every success in the coming years. As far as we are concerned, it is a matter of substance. We have also made a proposal through the Nijboer/Stoffer amendment. We now also have a motion that says: if you do this, at least invest that money back in education. As a warrior against the social loan system and as a warrior for accessibility, I count on the CDA with a little less arrogance, because that does not fit Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u164	Short reaction, if you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u165	You also presented that proposal to my colleague from D66. As an educational spokesperson, I cannot make commitments in the broadest sense and say whether or not I like something. Then I'm walking in front of colleagues too, and I'm not used to doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u166	Yes, I want to join this discussion, because I still don't understand. How can you state as a party, and how can Mr van der Molen's group chairman indicate that it is so problematic that students have serious debts and at the same time agree to a proposal to further increase those debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u167	I've already indicated to you that that's being semantic, hear that your debt amount doesn't increase at the time the interest rate changes. But that's just how you look at the proposal and the technique of it. Once again, at the beginning, when we were facing GroenLinks, we opposed the loan system, GroenLinks for the loan system, we said: you will have to look at the long-term financing, because the student debt will increase. This proposal is trying to do something about it. And the second was that you will have to discourage students from taking the opportunity to borrow as much as possible. It is our belief, and that is also why it is a justifiable measure, that if you pay a more real interest rate for the student debt you incur, you will be more careful to handle maximum borrowing. And we think that both social and financial as well as for the student himself simply defend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u168	I hear from these words that the CDA is going to tell the students that they should not borrow too much. I think that students can generally decide for themselves what to borrow. But then I'd like to ask the CDA why they think this is a semantic discussion. In fact, we have received a table from the Minister for Education, which simply indicates that the study debt for whole groups is increasing. That doesn't just apply to people who are way above average. We have a neat table that says that more interest must be paid by different income groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u169	If you look at the table, but then we refer to something that the public does not have in mind, then you will see that the agreements made on, for example, the repayment period and the hard limit of 4% above the minimum wage, make sure that for a very large group of students an increase to the ten-year rate is severely reduced when it comes to its effect. That's just an annex. This also ensures that this measure will not affect all students. I think that should simply be viewed as positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u170	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mr Van der Molen says: if you would look at the table. Of course I looked at that table. In fact, we asked about it in the last factual questions. In that you can see that there are differences for those different income groups, but in that we also see very clearly that you really don't have to earn far above average to pay back a higher student rate. And that's what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u172	And I just indicated that you should tell the whole story about that table. It is very clear from that table that precisely the reimbursement conditions currently in the loan system ensure that students who do not earn €80,000 if they have graduated and have a job are properly protected. And I think that's a good thing in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u173	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-6.u174	I'm suspending the meeting until 2:20 p.m. Then we will vote first, then we will have the order of business, and then we will continue with this debate.
