ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u1	I call the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Chamber for the contribution that was made on Tuesday. This is our second budget debate, the second in a year. I also look back on a very nice year, together with my very esteemed colleague Van Engelshoven. I would also like to say that I enjoy the work, including the debates with the Chamber. They're solid, but they're always focused on the ball. That's the way it's supposed to be. I notice that I am particularly enjoying it, as I was aware, but this has been confirmed in the past year by the meetings and conversations I have with the hard workers in practice, especially during school visits. I have said it many times, but I will repeat it once again: I have very, very much respect for teachers, educational support staff, school leaders and administrators, who, in not always very easy circumstances, we know in what time we are living, do very good work with a big heart and a lot of commitment for the students. Some of them are in the gallery, I see. Mr. Chairman. This is our second budget debate. Every time there's another anniversary. Probably will be next year. Last year we celebrated the pacification. This year we celebrate the fact that the ministry of OCW exists for 100 years. We have thought about this very soberly, but a beautiful book has been made. That book has already been taught by the spokesperson. I see you looking eager, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u3	I almost feel passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u4	This one's for you. I'll give it to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u5	Ah, great!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr Bishop referred to it, also to the title, as a rule free. I was deeply impressed by that myself. It's a beautifully chosen title. But it's also a really beautiful book. I haven't quite figured it out yet, but I've already read parts of it. You get a great look back at 100 years of politics, education, culture and science. We also see in which tradition we stand, on which shoulders we stand. This begins with Minister De Visser, the man of the School Act of 1920, to which Mr Bishop referred in his contribution. This has indeed been the law that has made public and special education equal before the law. He'd done other things, too. He was the Prime Minister of Education after the Batavian era. It is a very long line of people who have done this work and my colleague and I are closing the line right now. We know that at some point we will have feet on our shoulders again, that's how it goes. It really is a privilege to work for this beautiful ministry, for the Ministry of the Future as I called it last year. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to answer the questions that have been asked. Part of it has been written, part of it will now be done. I have made a number of cubes and I will tell you now, because you like them and it is clear. The first block is about freedom and responsibility. The second block is a little bit overflowing and is about the funding and the questions that have been asked about it. The third block is about the shortage of teachers. The fourth block is about equality of opportunity and combating inequality of opportunity and the fifth block on quality. Then perhaps there are some loose questions that can be addressed. I just indicated that we have already answered a number of questions in writing. I have to make a small addition to a question, a correction. That is Mrs van den Hul's question as to whether there can also be a free supply of pre-school education and what it costs. The amount mentioned there was based on last year's plan of the PO Council, the children's organisations and the VNG. You asked for something wider, and that means you have to add another 100 million. So it's a little more expensive. Anyway, that's roughly the amount of money we're gonna lose if we do that. This was just a small addition of 100 million to the question you had asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u7	This is a sec about the cost. Our question was also intended to see what it would cost to set up the system in such a way that the free preschool would work in the same way as the elementary school is now offered to children under compulsory schooling, making it almost the new standard. This could mean, for example, reducing the costs of childcare allowances and increasing employment rates, and so does our expectations. Our request was more focused on a net calculation that would take it with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u8	It's a bit ahead of the issue of equality of opportunity, but maybe I can take it off right here. Indeed, this is a cost calculation you make based on assumptions. They are quite large amounts and ultimately it is a political decision whether or not you want to do so. You know that this cabinet has made other decisions. Take a look at the coalition agreement. I do think it is important that we continue to focus more on this issue. We shall pass this on as far as we can. Then we come back at an appropriate time, there are times when we talk about this type of subject in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u9	We certainly look forward to that, and I share the Minister's view that it is a good idea to consider this in greater detail. We have asked written questions about the preschool with GroenLinks and the SP, among other things, but I would like to ask the Minister about access to the preschool how, within the current facilities, the cabinet is indeed already making investments in the pre-school, so that all target children can actually make use of them. In Amsterdam as well as in other cities, we see signs that not all target users use them. What are we gonna do to make sure that happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u10	Let me refer you to the answers I have given. I am talking to my colleague Van Ark, who is talking about the other part of this subject, to zoom in a little more focused on what is going on in Amsterdam. In part, this has to do with political choices that have been made there and that have certain consequences. As far as we are concerned, this is not a matter of answering at once. It remains that this cabinet has made a choice. We invest extra in pre-school education, specifically for the target children. Childcare payments, which, as you know, have also increased considerably, are intended, under the government agreement, for participation in the labour market. This includes a contribution from the parents. Anyway, we've had that discussion before. We are a little ahead of schedule here, but I had to do this in order to fill in the written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u11	Yeah, 'cause we might be able to skip that block right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u12	Well, no, let's just do that block later and get the hell out of here. Isn't that more convenient?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u13	We can, yes, if we don't start over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u14	I don't care, Mr. Chairman. I'll be here a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u15	Probably me, too. I think that's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the first block, the freedom and the responsibility. In a number of contributions, but also in the past year, it has become clear that everyone appreciates the fact that we have freedoms in this country, including in education. However, the way in which freedom is implemented in practice is regularly followed. We do have a fantastic education system in our country. We have freedoms that are unprecedented. In the book that now stands so pontifically for the president, there is a wonderful story from 2003. The French Government then sent a delegation to the Netherlands to see what is happening in the Netherlands with regard to the education system. In doing so, the eyes really fell out of the heads of the representatives from France. You know the laicism and how it works in France, including in education. They suddenly saw in the Netherlands an educational system with just a lot of freedom of choice, all kinds of possibilities, backgrounds, denominations, certain didactic views or schools where they just wanted to look for it close to home. You can do that in this country. They were very surprised. It should have been known already, because it has been the case for 100 years now. We have a fantastic system. We have freedom for parents to choose a school that fits in with the education they advocate for their child, whether your child's name is Bente or that name is sometimes called Feline, Naomi, Joas or Rosa. Those last two are my grandchildren, by the way. It's wonderful if you as a parent can make a choice for a school that you find fit your child. That's not the case with my grandchildren yet, but I think it is for Naomi and Bente. You can do that in this country. That is also what we consider to be the strength of our system, as my colleague and I wrote when we responded to the State of Education. We also have the freedom to establish schools which, of course, have to do with that. As you know, we have now offered to the Chamber, also as a result of the coalition agreement, a law which seeks to broaden that area. That's just great. If there is support, if there is support and if the quality requirements are also met, then we are going to be much tighter at the front. You can do that in this country. Not in France, but with us. We also have freedom of decor. That means that we leave room to make choices about the layout as well. That can't be unlimited. This has not been the case since the very beginning. Properties have always been imposed. You'll notice in our time that we're getting tighter too. This also has to do with the fact that we think it is wonderful that there is freedom but that we also think that a number of things that are also considered valuable from a social and political point of view should be addressed in education. It is always a matter of searching with these freedoms and the way in which they are implemented. Mr. Chairman. In line with that freedom of establishment...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u18	I think there is a question from Mr Beertema on this point. I thought you were moving on to another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u19	No, I wasn't done with the freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u20	You haven't finished the freedoms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u21	No, because we have so many in this country. I'll be in the middle of something. So we have freedom of establishment, but we also have the freedom to make choices at school level. That has to do with the freedom of establishment. Perhaps Mr Bertema's question was about this; that will have to be seen in the near future. Sometimes this happens within frameworks that we indicate, but we really think that the choices should be made there. That's very broad. This has to do with the way in which we make finances available. I shall come back to that later on in terms of funding, but also with the fact that there is scope to also focus on the key goals that are given to the schools from the government and also on the excursions that organize schools. They have the room to make choices, as well as in parental contributions, shadow education and the use or non-use of a temporary agency. In fact, you recognize all the discussions that have taken place over the past year. Why do I put that here? That's what we deliberately chose to do. That's our order. We believe that these choices should be made there. Only when we think something's not going well there, I think there's a time to scale up, but the first exit is always the school. That is where these discussions need to take place. We are also in the process of getting the people who have a place in the co-determination council increasingly into a position where they can actively discuss these issues and that they also have clear powers to make choices in them. I am talking not only about the school leaders, but also about the teachers, the parents and so on. It's important for us to know our place in it. That is also the reason why I have referred back to school in the past year, and I think I have to do so today on a number of subjects as well. That's where the conversations have to take place. There is a need to draw conclusions, and there are provisions for this. We're not gonna do that from the national government. This also applies to all kinds of additional things that we would like to have in the curriculum. Last year we had the vegetable garden and now there seems to be something about farm visit, which should be mandatory. No, as far as I am concerned, that is all category vegetable garden: it is fine that schools, if they have freedom of choice, want to make use of it and do certain things, but we are not going to make it compulsory and impose it from above. As far as I am concerned, that is freedom. Mr President, I will conclude this section. Of course, this freedom also includes responsibility, because that freedom is never unlimited. There are also very clear expectations about how this can be implemented. If one only claims freedom as a right, without taking responsibility, then one even runs the risk of disappearing at some point. It is therefore also a huge task for everyone in education to be aware of the responsibility to tackle these freedoms, whatever their subject matter, and to ensure that the order we have in the Netherlands can continue to exist in this way in the future. It's not a quiet property. Freedom goes hand in hand with responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u22	It's definitely not a quiet possession. The freedom of education is a hugely important freedom that we should continue to defend if necessary until the last day. What I want to talk about is not freedom with regard to vegetable gardens or farm visits, but something much more fundamental. Should our freedom, the freedom of education, now extend to an ideology characterised, for example, by anti-Semitism, by fundamental inequality between men and women, by fundamental inequality between heterosexual and homosexual and by fundamental inequality, which goes very far, from the believer and the apostate to the renouncer of faith? It's got heavy sanctions on it. Of course, I'm talking about Islam. It's based on the sharia. Moreover, many of the believers prefer their own religious ideological rules to secular legislation. Shouldn't you be asking that fundamental question? Should we not exclude an ideology that is so antisocial and so contrary to all our freedoms and even to our Constitution, because that ideology has only one purpose, namely to limit all of our freedoms and, preferably, to destroy them at the end of the day?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u23	This is a very fundamental debate, which, of course, is not being held for the first time, as Mr Beertema knows. The freedom we are talking about, the freedom of education, is even enshrined in our Constitution. Our Constitution contains universal rights. It is incredibly important, also for our rule of law, that we deal with it in this way. You can't shop in it selectively, for whatever reason. That does not mean that, at the time of appealing to these freedoms, we should not point out the responsibilities that go with them. How we see these responsibilities, we fill in, for example, in the context of how we set the standards. I have already indicated that from the very beginning, when freedom of education came, read that beautiful book "" has been about it. So that freedom has never been unlimited, but always somewhat restricted. If you look into the history of these 100 years, you can see that a lot has already come up. This is because society is asking for it. For example, think about what we think about good citizenship and how it should be implemented. There will be a legislative proposal which we will discuss in greater detail. Then you immediately see the tension with the freedom of education. But I think it is quite right for you to know my background in this respect that we should also clearly state what we expect from schools. Then each school will have to meet those requirements, whether it's an Islamic school or a school of public education, a generally accessible or a PC school or a Catholic school, a jenaplan school, or you can name everything there is. If that doesn't happen, we'll just have to perform. And perhaps there are schools that we need to look more closely at whether they are doing well, but you know that the inspection there is simply doing its job. We have all secured this in our laws and regulations. That is the way we organized it, and so I would like to apply it to everyone, regardless of the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u24	Suppose a group of young, enthusiastic national-socialist parents who rely on the principles of the Nazis would like to set up a school in which anti-Semitism, the superiority of their own race and so on are preached. What if they make an application on the basis of Article 23, are we going to have that fundamental discussion? Or do you say: "Well, well, they meet the core goals. The inspection is on top of it and we have all kinds of laws and regulations to keep an eye on it. God bless the grip, let them go"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u25	No, Mr. Chairman. The last thing, I mean, you know, depending on God's blessing, it's always very beautiful. But not: we'll just do a little bit and we'll see. No. However, I believe that we will have that discussion in full swing at the moment when the proposal for an extension of the application comes to the Chamber. I'm getting a little ahead of myself: has a very conscious choice been made? That's not happening right now. Right now, you're checking if there's enough signatures. A comparison is then made with similar municipalities and the Westland is suddenly compared with Maastricht as a recent example. Then whether or not an application is granted and then it all starts. No, the new system looks much tighter, especially when it comes to those core values that we consider important to each other and which we all think should also be secured in a school, whatever school it is. In the example you are giving, I wonder if there is any parent who will support it, but who knows? Suppose that is just as fictitious as it is, there will be a red sign at the front, a stop sign. So these freedoms are important. And I also understand the critical questions that are being asked, including from the Chamber, on various issues relating to how these freedoms are handled. Hence my urgent appeal to all those who make use of these freedoms to take responsibility. But for us, as a minister, but also for you as a Member of Parliament, we must continue to follow the right order, because it should be first and foremost in those schools. That is where these discussions must take place. So on such a work visit, such an excursion to a mosque, you can have all kinds of feelings. But a school just has to make a school plan. He'll have to ask permission for excursions. If you say "we don't want to" on one part, you'll undermine anything you do with excursions. That is, of course, not legally sustainable either. But you can make demands and you can indicate what you want in there. When parents say "we don't want our child to go there," then we have to consider whether it is plausible and then an alternative can be given. In short, that is the way forward, as far as I am concerned. And let us be careful, I see Mr Bisschop, who is always a great advocate of freedoms, going to the interrupting microphone that we are not going to restrict all kinds of freedoms from above. Today it's this, tomorrow it's something else. And I don't think that's the way we should want that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u26	That is not the way in which I raised this point. I am concerned about the nature of public education. That is where education is given with respect for everyone's religious beliefs. This implies that students attending that school can by definition be required from a social point of view to participate in an excursion to a mosque, but not that they can be forced to participate in religious rituals or prayers. That is what my point is about. That is why our plea is to make it a right instead of the right to apply for exemption, in this case in order to protect the character of public education. This is, of course, linked to a replacement, as is usual today. Now it depends on the goodwill of the management or the management, i.e. on the competent authority. This is contrary to the freedom of public education. So just to defend that freedom, I made this point. I would like to ask the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u27	I would like to go back a little bit, to the simple fact that a school is going to organize excursions. That's something you just include in your school plan. You say, for example, with Group 5, and perhaps with Group 7, we want to go to a church once, also in the context of citizenship formation. I know there are public schools that go to church and ask: what happens here on a Sunday, when all those people go in, what do they do there? There's an explanation there. There are also schools that say: we also go to a mosque, because there are Muslims in our hometown, and we want to know where they go in. So that's what I'm calling for at the schools, but whatever I say to parents, talk to each other about what you think is acceptable or not acceptable. I can imagine very well, but that is a choice they have to make. But it is very good that students take a look outside their own door and also get something from what is happening in society. This is what we consider very important when it comes to citizenship. So, first of all, the agreements have to be made there. It could happen anyway. I do not think that a school is going to put in its school plan: the students are going to perform mandatory prayer actions. I don't know how that happens; maybe it happens spontaneously. I don't know. If that is not desirable, you should at least talk about it in the school. That's what you make agreements about. At the moment when we are going to force people to do these things from above, from The Hague, or to think up exits for one subject so that parents do not have to let children take part in excursions, I think we are going the opposite way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u28	With your permission, taking part in excursions or not is not the point of discussion. That's not what my contribution was about. In fact, my contribution focused on the violation of the constitutional freedom of parents, the constitutional right to say that it is very unfriendly, in a secular way, to be protected from religious actions. That's what a public school has to guarantee. Of course it is necessary and desirable that there should be a discussion about it, and so on. But certainly in a situation of public education, we must recognise the right of parents to be allowed to do so as a result of a lack of conscience in this case. So I am not talking about the Islamic school, because it can logically be linked to mosque activities, but I am talking about public education. And I realize that it sounds a little strange, that here the SGP is now presenting itself as champion of public education, but this is about constitutional law. I would urge the Minister to look at it from that point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mr Bishop states that it is amazing that he stands up for public education. I'd say that's the way it's supposed to be. Because when it comes to freedom of education, public education and special education are two sides of the same coin; they belong together. It is very good if you also look very closely at what is happening in public education with a very warm heart for special education. I understand you so much last Tuesday that you want to offer room for parents to keep their children away from such excursions. I see a different angle now. It is indeed a bit more constitutional. In fact, you say that I think it is important, in general terms, to have an example of this, that public education should ensure that children do not have to take part in actions that affect what public education is at the heart of. I'll wait and see how exactly you're gonna complete your proposal in the second term. But that's a slightly different angle than "you may refuse excursions."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u30	Very briefly, one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u31	I just want to correct the image. In the interruption of Mr Beertema last Tuesday, this point was discussed a little further. At that time, the difference between Mr Beertema's approach and mine was also apparent. I also referred to that fundamental right of parents. So that was the constitutional point of view. Anyway, we'll come up with a motion in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u32	We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u33	Well, I'm delighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I can't wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u35	I hear the minister here sketches a picture of schools going to a church, then to a mosque and then to a synagogue. The funny thing is that my mailbox is overflowing with the indignation of parents of children dragged to those mosques all over the Netherlands. I'm barely getting any information that they're going to a shuffle or a church. How often does that happen? What are the proportions? How many Muslim students object to visiting a shoo or a Christian church? And are religious acts done there, when they are there? Is that where the creed is practiced? How's that? You may not be able to answer that right now, but you may be able to do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u36	We are not going to ask schools to write down all these things carefully and to report them to us. As you know, we are trying to keep administrative pressure on schools and not ask the schools to fill out all sorts of forms. That's what we're trying to make a cut in. Purely on my own experience, I know that there are schools that go to the shoel or to churches. That there will be some discussion in the school, should there not be? It seems obvious to me, but that is also the place where it ultimately belongs. Those discussions should also be held there. Please let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u37	The problem is that these discussions are conducted on a very one-sided image that is outlined to these children. I hope it will not ever happen, but if you want to inform children fairly about Islam, then they should also know what halal means, then you should also show movies from halal abattoirs, then you should also pay attention to the broad Islamic advice to circumcise girls. But that never happens. I see little kids in a mosque with beautiful colors and beautiful fairy tale rugs on their knees and saying mysterious things. They don't even know what they're saying; the kids don't, I do. That's such a distorted image. Then you can't say it's a piece of citizenship? Then the children will not go away with a realistic picture of an ideology from the Middle Ages? Do they know what? They don't know anything, they've been put on the wrong track, and I find that extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u38	I think it's very important that you embed excursions in a theme you're talking about, but we're not going to prescribe that to the schools either. I've been a teacher myself for years; you know that. If we were going somewhere with students, it wasn't: we're going somewhere, take a look around, fun, and you're going home, done. You've also been a teacher, so you know that's very irresponsible educationally. Then you have a nice moment, but that doesn't lead to anything. If subjects are addressed, for example non-Western religions or religion in general, then of course school attention will also be paid to them. I assume there will be a story told with different sides. They can often be given as well. I'm making a switch to my second block: the funding. We have talked about it over the past year and some questions have been asked about it now. We have even had a VAO on the simplification of funding in secondary education just before the first term of office in the budgetary procedure. It's a subject that we're pretty much in together, and I'm happy about that, too. The financial resources we make available are part of this freedom and take responsibility. The Chamber itself has very actively initiated a whole process around the lumpsum, which I have noted with appreciation. This has also led to an opinion from the Education Council, which I have also noted with appreciation in terms of content. It has led to the letter I sent to you recently with my colleague Van Engelshoven. I'd say the game's on the wagon. We are now entering a phase in which we need to have even more intense debates. For me and for my colleague Van Engelshoven, the following is simply very clear. This also applies, for example, to the lump sum, because we support it. We understand the choices that have been made for it, but this also explicitly includes autonomy. There is also a clear responsibility for autonomy. We see a lot of good examples in the country. There are boards that handle it well, but we also see examples that we question and which we say can be better. And that has also been the advice of the Education Council: that accountability really needs to be improved! I am glad that this statement has been made and that we are also working on it, because it is society that is asking for it. It is community money and therefore society can expect the schools to be transparent about how they deal with the resources. This is not only good for society, but it is also good for the school itself and for those who need to speak in that school about how, I hope, these resources will eventually be spent efficiently. Mr Heerema has, I think, given some shots in relation to this discussion. A number of others have also done so, Mr Van Meenen at an earlier stage. I think it is indeed a good idea to have this debate with each other. That will be a strong debate. My colleague and I have already mentioned in our letter what we expect from the administrations: greater transparency in terms of financial data, including in terms of how resources are distributed, including among schools. There must also be transparency about how to deal with the reserves. That subject has been mentioned by several of you and you may know from me that I understand that schools have reserves. I also indicated last year that I understand that these reserves have increased somewhat because the maintenance on the outside has been centralized to the schools since 2015. And those are pretty big amounts of money. Even if you want to invest in ICT, for example, you need to save up. But I am extremely critical of the fact that these reserves are growing, that some governments really are in a proper size. I'm just waiting for the report from the Education Inspectorate, the Financial State of Education. As you know, that always comes at the end of the year. I think it's gonna be late November, early December. Last year we had him in the budget, but not yet. On that basis, we will also see how we continue to deal with it. I understand that the PO Council itself is playing there, especially as it has already realised that something must be done. It is therefore a subject that we have been working hard on, but which we will be discussing with each other in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u39	I indicated in my first term that the VVD notes that very similar schools in similar neighbourhoods, with such teachers and students and therefore with similar funding can sometimes have very different educational outcomes. We find this strange to have to do, because it should be a little more similar. Now the Ministry has sent a letter with your signature on how we can get more transparency about it, on what responsibility there is with the boards and on how we should get more insight into it. My question to the Minister is as follows. I can see why we're trying to get a better look at that. That's what we want. That's what part of the room wants. But the next step is, of course, grip. When does "getting the grip on the lumpsum" come into play at the Ministry when we talk about a school that has different results than another school in the same neighborhood?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u40	A very fair question about the differences that exist between schools that are almost the same, even when it comes to the population and so on. You see differences in the way they come out with their resources. You suddenly see that one doesn't come true and the other does. That's what we've seen with the quality, by the way. From schools in almost the same conditions and with almost the same populations in the same neighborhood, one scores very well and the other ends up under the line, or at least in much less beautiful results. We also want to get a grip on that. I think it's important... It is really very difficult to get the fingers behind it very well, because sometimes there is also a weighting of things and factors. But I intend to consider Mr Heerema's questions as a clear incentive to do so in the coming year, to investigate the adequacy of the funds for the P.O. The Commission is also aware of the difficulties encountered in the implementation of the programme and the difficulties encountered in the implementation of the programme. And I know it's gonna be pretty complicated, but I'm not running away from it, also because of the questions that keep coming out of the Chamber. They come not only from the Chamber, but also from the PO Council. Furthermore, the Education Council also asks for it. I do indeed do so with the fact that sometimes schools are very different when they live in almost the same conditions. We're gonna do that investigation now. I believe that it can also help our debate on finance, the budget and on many of the issues surrounding it to have such information. There's some old tests, but they're a little dated, so I'd like to get them updated. Then we have even more control over the next step and we know what the facts are and which schools do not deliver. If we know that, we can't stand behind a tree anymore. Then we know that it is simply about their own actions and we can also act much better if necessary. I hope, however, that in many cases things will go well. I do not want to paint an image here as it would be bad everywhere, but we do have concerns about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u41	Then we need to clear up what we mean by getting a grip on it. You can get a hold of what's going on in those schools. I feel like the Minister's leaning towards that. Our main concern is to get a grip on the school itself. We want to help to get schools that fail to perform well a step higher. That's a difference in getting grip on. I have the impression that the Minister is at least going a little further here than in the letter he sent. I'm genuinely happy about that. If we can talk about this extensively in 2019, I think that is an excellent starting point, but I would like to add that clarification on the grip and grip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u42	The grip and the grip. Indeed, I am going to go a step further here, also encouraged by your Chamber and the contribution in the first term, in order to finally make the choice to make this update of those investigations. In addition, there is a very good question, but for the answer, we really do not have to wait until these studies are there.... how we can help the schools to make good choices in how they deal with the quality of the educational content, but also with the financial resources. As far as finances are concerned, one of the very important reasons why we want to change this system is the mess of indicators. The trees stopped seeing the forest. If we can simplify that now... Before the summer, I'll come up with a bill. I narrowed those indicators down to four, but let it turn into five or six. Maybe it'll be four, with something extra around it. We'll see. Then we offer schools much more opportunities to see how money flows run and what they can expect. This will be based very much on the pupils and on a very limited number of indicators. I think she's going to be very helpful. I hope it's p.o. That next step is going to take very quickly, because that's where we have to do the same. So grip and grip indeed, know what happens, have a view on it and also provide support wherever it can. Sometimes we can also change our legislation to make it easier for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u43	In the context of grip and grip, I would like to touch on the questions raised by Mr Van Meenen and myself, among others, on the space letter for the collective bargaining. In replying to the written questions, the Minister makes a comparison with regular market cao's and says: it is not customary that this is given in advance. That is true, of course, but we do not think that this comparison is entirely valid. With market cao's there is annual reports and you can find everything in stock exchange prices, but that information does not exist here of course. Moreover, the government determines the bandwidth, which makes it more complicated for unions, for example, to find out what bandwidth they can count on again. Moreover, there is also the reference model, which allows the government to intervene in the interim. That complicates things even more. In view of the urgency of good working conditions and the concern that exists, it has just been mentioned whether the money earmarked actually ends up where we want it to end up, it seems logical to us that these unions should have an extra look at the bandwidth that there is to negotiate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u44	That vision will have to be created at the table we are not sitting with, as you know, because at some point we have arranged it in a different way. I also understand that even under international law, you cannot make such information freely available to everyone. It is very specific information, which is indeed important to employers and which is therefore the material with which they sit at the table for them to come to choices and to determine the ranges in these negotiations with the unions. In that respect, I don't see any room to suddenly say: well, we're just gonna open that up. It is also clear that this has never happened before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u45	Several people indicate that they do need it. I think the Minister is failing himself by saying that this is something that should only be discussed at the collective bargaining table. In fact, I think it is very important for us as a Chamber to have a look at how these processes are going, especially given the specific context that I just outlined through that reference model. I understand that the Minister says that the negotiating parties are in a position to act, but I really believe that we, as politicians, have an interest in ensuring transparency. That is why I would ask the Minister to at least enter into that conversation and see what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u46	There are simply legal frameworks within which such agreements are made and information is made available. We can't just change it. I just said there's even an international component to it. The second is that our "us" is wide; that is you, and that is what we too are somewhat reluctant to do, because it has to be done there. Eventually, we'll be faced with outcomes. In this respect, we have, of course, recently had a wonderful example of a process where we were even a little bit on the edge, because we made additional financial resources available and demanded them. I remember when it was said from the Chamber: ho, ho, can you do that? I don't know if it was you, but it did. At that time we said that, because we are making additional resources available, we can indicate that it is a condition that we are going to test later, but that we are going to leave it there now. They did a great job. A lovely collective agreement has come out. I even think it's in the p.o. The most beautiful collective agreement of all time is, when it comes to what extra money has come up, occasional money, which has made a lot of teachers very happy this week. We then looked back on that with each other, even in this Chamber, and also indicated what we thought of it or not. There is already a flag, but spontaneously the flag went out to all the other groups: this was it; at most some wishes for a follow-up, but that is always legitimate. I think that it is fairly clear how it works and how we intend to do it. I do not see any room for making changes to that, when it comes to making all kinds of information freely available. We simply don't have those powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u47	Following that. Indeed, that process of pressure equipment is the example where the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u48	No, this was the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u49	Yeah, the collective agreement. Anyway, it was part of that. The advantage of course was that both parties knew exactly what the space was. Maybe that's why it's been such a success. The resources had been made available in the coalition agreement. Now it's about a situation that, as it's called, a normal space letter comes from the government. There's space and you can use it in all kinds of ways. But only the employers have knowledge of that space. These are employers who are mainly playing with government money. What is against giving this information to the workers as well? Isn't that supposed to be public information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u50	No, because this is the area that employers should be aware of at the time when they are going to sit down with unions to make agreements with them about what they ultimately want to achieve with each other. The unions, of course, have every right to make their own assessment of whether they think it is sufficient, yes or no. You can give this information directly to the unions, so to speak, but they still need to be able to have a good conversation about how they are going to fill it out. It is information that is specifically intended for employers. So we do not simply have the opportunity to say: we are going to make that available in a letter to the Chamber or only to the unions or in any variant. There's just limitations in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u51	But we're imposing these restrictions on ourselves, aren't we? So you can break it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u52	I have just indicated that there are some limitations in the legal sense, even international law towards the ILO, for example. If you would like to know that more precisely, I can send it to you for the second term. But we can't just say: okay, very logical, make it available and everyone knows where they stand. Unfortunately, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u53	I think that's interesting. I am following Mrs van den Hul, by the way, so if she thinks that is a good idea, I would say: let us get that information in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u54	It was just about the financial reserve. That is an important subject, because it is very difficult to understand that on the one hand education is crying out for more money, and on the other hand we see the balance in the bank account growing in a number of schools. This happens not only in schools, but also in partnerships; that is what I said in my contribution. In 2017, the partnerships together retained 32 million extra and their equity grew to 238 million. This is demonstrated by an analysis by my esteemed former colleague at the General Education Association. How does the Minister feel about that now? Is it not time to do something about the financial reserves of the partnerships?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u55	That is indeed a subject that I wanted to come back to. I would also like to say something about it now, because this is also about appropriate education. I have just said that I am critical of the development of such reserves. I also said that the Financial State of Education is between now and four or five weeks. I assume that the education inspection will also specifically zoom in on this, because I know that it has carried out an in-depth study into the use of resources for appropriate education. So I think we're going to be served very quickly with information that's going to help us make some really firm statements about that. If you look at it from a distance, you say: it seems like a lot of money, but if you smear it over all kinds of partnerships, they have about 1.5 million on average. Some partnerships are above that, but there are also those that have a negative reserve. So they're just in the red. So it is also quite difficult to make all kinds of generic statements, because the situation is just very different. That is why I am waiting with great desire for the advice of the education inspector, so that perhaps one more step can be taken if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u56	The Minister says: yes, it is only 1.5 million per partnership.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u57	I didn't say "but" 1.5 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u58	Well, the minister said it's not that bad with these partnerships.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u59	I was talking about "average" 1.5 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u60	He says, on average, the amount isn't so bad. But the number of homeowners is increasing and a number of children do not receive adequate education. Then I find the reserves in the total, but also the average of 1.5 million per grouping, very much. Can the Minister take an advance in advance, and can he say here, for example, whether he intends to tighten the strings a little more, for example by agreeing that there is a maximum of the financial reserve available for each grouping? In addition to the partnerships, the schools already have a financial reserve. In any case, my group is wondering whether this is necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u61	I have indicated that I am critical of these reserves and also of their increase. But I think it is important, especially when it comes to appropriate education, to have the in-depth research of the education inspection first, and the Financial State of Education which is coming very quickly now. I know that last year's education inspection in the State of Education wrote that it is not in itself illogical that there are reserves, and that she saw that those reserves did not stand for too long and were quickly used again. Well, I wonder what the passages on this will be this year. At least I'm worried about that increase, but I'd like to have that information first, and then continue the conversation with you. And as far as I'm concerned, you can do that a day later. Then we can see what we may or may not find necessary. I can see that the schools themselves are aware of this. And those schools are, of course, part of those partnerships. This is also apparent from a response from the PO Council on these reserves. It has already been pointed out that there is a very focused administration there, and she says that there should not be any unnecessary money left on the shelf. This will also be done towards cooperation. The social goals are indeed very large, and the money must simply be spent on achieving them. That's what the money's for. Mr President, I have one more element that goes with funding. This concerns the debate that has also been held a short time ago on the sectoral agreements and the performance box. The CDA and D66 have said something about that. As you know, the sector agreements started in the previous period, but the government agreement states that we will continue to do so with a slight adjustment. We started last September, October. As early as December of this year, you were given the mid-term evaluation under my responsibility. It's been in the Chamber for almost a year. It was also developed later in the review of the sectoral agreements. They were there before the summer. I really think it's going a little too fast and also a little easy to say that the targets have not been met. It is an interim evaluation anyway, of a year old now; we are already a year further. Looking at what has been achieved, I see that very good and important things have happened. We know that part of that money is also used for human power. So if the question is whether, when the period comes to an end, the money can become available for other noble purposes, then I think: it would of course be a bit special if, so to speak, people had to be fired to give the people who were left behind a slightly higher salary. Nor will that be the intention of the questioners. I think we should do this in accordance with the agreements. We must also support our signature, which has once again been confirmed in the coalition agreement. This was an interim evaluation. So to speak, the furnace was opened for a while, but that was already the state of play a year ago. You know you have to be careful opening the oven when you're halfway baking a cake, because then the whole thing collapses. Ultimately, 2020 is the time for the evaluation. On that basis, we can see what wisdom is, whether or not there is money left and whether the goals have been achieved. I think that's the right order. I think we should be very careful to raise expectations, even towards teachers, who may not even be able to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u62	I note that the Minister bears witness to his love and passion for education. That's what's good for him. He does that in great detail. We appreciate that, too. But this way it's gonna be late today. So if both the questions on the part of the Chamber and the answers may be brief and pointy, I would appreciate that. Mr Van Meenen is going to set an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u63	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, you know me. We can simply see that we are not in agreement. Because when that furnace was opened, there was actually a cake collapsed, when it came to the extent to which the agreements of the sector agreement had been complied with so far. There's no expectation that that's gonna go any better. Besides, these appointments are super-vague. So of the objectives that it contains, we say: we can only get them with good teachers for the class. Let's see if this is possible in a responsible way. I agree with the Minister. But I will certainly table a motion on this subject in the second term, along with my dear colleague. Not a question, but just an announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u64	Then who's that dear colleague, I guess. We'll find out in second term. Cliffhanger!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u65	He was looking at you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u67	The midterm evaluation is in the Chamber. That's what we're gonna look at. A lot of money is going to go to education in the near future, at work pressure, for salaries. We have all made that very clear. We have also seen that in the last period 25% of the extra money has come into the bank account at schools and only 50% in the classroom. So the 80% that the minister is talking about may apply to the total amount spent on teachers, but not always to the extra money. My question to the Minister is: can he go with a request from the Chamber to at least take part in the tripartite talks that are about to take place, see if there is room for them to get a piece of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u68	The evaluation is in the Chamber, but it has been there for almost a year. That was two months after the government agreement indicated that it was very important to continue with the sectoral agreement. I think that is what the negotiators have done. Surely it can't be that after two months the quality wouldn't be good? I mean, then perhaps another choice should have been made in the coalition agreement. But apart from that, it's an agreement that goes on until 2020. The evaluation will be carried out in 2020. That's in line with the agreements made. Then there's the evaluation. Then we also have a focus on whether the image that has been sketched out here is correct. I do not think that it does justice to reality, but that will have to be shown once and for all at the end of the period. So that is the time to take stock of the situation. Then, so to speak, everything can be on the table. There may then be more ideas on what money could possibly be spent on. The deal now is that it would be included in the lumpsum after 2020. If all kinds of human resources are attached to this, it would also be very unwise to create a situation in which these people will lose their jobs. We shouldn't want that to happen either. But let's wait and see. In 2020, we will have that consultation. Then, of course, I will have in mind what has changed here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u69	The Minister is right to say that the government agreement stipulates that we will continue with the performance box agreements and the sector agreements until they are valid. My group has always voted in favour of this, while we disagreed with many of the issues in that sector agreement and felt that we passed over as a Chamber and as a CDA we felt that workers were wrongly not involved. Nevertheless, due to the consistency of policy, I have found that the sectoral agreements should simply be concluded. But now we're in the fall of that agreement. And the question to the Minister is whether he is willing to look together with employees and employers at the best possible interpretation, with possibly a responsible part being devoted to this goal. That's the question I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u70	I also pointed out that the evaluation to be completed by 2020, which is going to run in the coming years, will have to provide the information that will make it clear whether or not there is room. We'll see by then. Of course, I have in mind that this has been discussed here in the Chamber, although I also know that there are groups that have other wishes. That is indeed a new moment to watch it with each other. Mr. Chairman. My next block is the lack of teachers. I can be brief about that, but not because the subject is not important, because it is mega-important. It is also a very important subject for me, but we have discussed it very extensively quite recently. However, I understand that several groups in the Chamber have again called for attention to be paid to it. Because this is an unabated focus for everyone. During the previous cabinet period, an approach was adopted whereby not only something is decided from The Hague but to which all the parties involved were members. "All" is very wide. Then you talk about the unions, the employers, the teacher training and you name it, also from the point of view that we need everyone and we need to do it together. In fact, these people are around employers, because they are, of course, primarily responsible for trying to get teachers in class. There was also that we think it is very important that anything you can do is just done. Because there is not one button you can play, as we sometimes say in The Hague in a bit of administrative jargon. No, there's just a lot of possibilities. That approach was very diverse and is always discussed. I've already had a midterm evaluation with you once. Later we discussed it again and in a few weeks there will be another evaluation. Did all of this just happen to us? I believe that this question was raised in particular by Mrs van den Hul. I'd almost say yes and no. Because in recent years, attention has been paid to the shortage of teachers. There has even been a time when we advised young people not to go to such training. That wasn't even that long ago. That was in the 1980s when we were dealing with a surplus. Then complete, as it was then called, PA classes graduated and no one, except perhaps one or two people, had a job. We can't imagine that time anymore. Then the economic situation changes and the surplus suddenly turns into a deficit. When Mr Rinnooy Kan rang the alarm clock in 2007, that was indeed the signal for people: now pay attention. But the special thing was that it seemed to be not so bad at the time. How did that happen? This had to do, among other things, with the fact that the drop in students started, which required fewer teachers, and that the older teachers continued to work a bit longer, because the AOW age slowly shifted and the arrangements with which you could get out earlier became less. Now we are in a situation of high economics and the figures point to a huge deficit in the future. But at the moment it is already feeling very much. There is therefore no reason to take this issue off in an afternoon. We should be working on this day and night in a manner of speaking. This is what we have to do with each other. We must do everything within our capabilities. This cabinet has chosen to continue the broad-based plans of the previous cabinet and therefore to continue to implement them, including the lines of action and all these different possibilities. But we have done something else, which is different from the previous cabinet: we have also made money available. I know that it is not enough, but it has been considerable in terms of reducing the workload and increasing salaries. I have made every effort with the parties that had to contribute in practice to ensure that it became available as soon as possible. It worked. We should be happy about that, because the workloads that have entered into force since August and the salaries that are now being paid are very nice steps. My colleague has implemented measures such as the reduction, the halving of tuition fees and the first years free and so on. At least we are seeing a huge increase in students at the pabo. I'm not saying there's one causal link, but I'm sure it helped. So we do notice that the actions we are taking have an impact on parts, but of course there is still a shortage. The same applies to lateral influx. Questions have been asked about this too. That was such a success that it seemed to stagnate briefly recently. Fortunately, we were able to prevent that, even with some resources that we were happy to retain for education. We are also trying to do that before 2019. So we are really doing what we can, with even an additional intensification by providing further support in those regions and making money available for that. It really is all hands on deck, because the problem is felt every day. On the basis of the insights, we also know that the perspectives in this respect are not good and we cannot sit back either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u71	It is all hands on deck to fight this system crisis, because it will indeed get worse. The Minister now lists all the measures we have discussed. Of course, they will all have some effect, we must hope so, but in my term I have tried to include that one very jumping point as far as I am concerned, namely that the profession is no longer fun. I never hear the Minister say anything about that. It's not fun anymore, because as a teacher, you're a toy of everyone but yourself. That is why I drew attention to this and said: stop with all those modernisers, with all that self-discovery learning. A teacher wants to be a teacher. That's what makes the business so beautiful. That is why I talked about direct instruction as didactics, which is almost completely gone. That is where I think the problem lies. A few percent more purchasing power is absolutely fine. They deserve it tremendously, but that is not going to work wonders in the fight against the shortage of teachers. Do you know what miracles will do? When we go back to that direct instruction, to order and rest in those classes, to a teacher with a story that takes the students on hand through the knowledge and who goes to practice with them instead of those chaotic classes where parents walk in and out, where one modernized person rolls in after the other, where everyone is busy with their phone call, where there is this unrest. Teachers don't want to be counselors of a chaotic group of students and parents and I know what. They want to teach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u72	I indicated at the beginning that I make a lot of school visits. I do not recognize myself in the image that no more direct instructions would be given anywhere in the country. I do recognize myself in the picture, but that doesn't create you that there is room to make choices in it as well. I was at a school in Apeldoorn where even the same year groups offered different possibilities. There was a class where the teacher was in the back of the class and there was a class where the teacher stood in front of the class. It was a very conscious choice which student was true, because one simply comes to his senses much better and also more into his own with more direct instructions indeed, a bit even as we used to have our teachings in the past; although I did not always find that successful in everything, I also say to you in all honesty than the other who can handle a little more independence. Of course, that student always gets instructions, but can then just get to work on his own, also with other students, and also develops skills that I had hoped would have been given in the past. So there's room for the schools to make choices. I was also recently at a school where dust is only offered in larger units and where smaller tables provide support to students. That will of course be an abomination to you, but the teachers who worked there were very satisfied. I said, does it work for everyone? And then they said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. They have gone to schools where they still work in a more traditional way. It's all possible in this country. I like that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u73	There may be way too much in this country. All I can see is that the education budget has exploded in about ten years. The net result is that in the time of the direct instruction we did have students who could spell, read and write. And after the budget explosion and the modernisations, we have whole cohorts, a whole generation of students, who no longer control the d's and t's, who no longer control the sentence building, and who are not even able to write a paragraph without fault. That's just a fact, isn't it? Then something fundamental went wrong, didn't it? I don't hear the ministers talking about that. I hear very little about that in the Chamber. But those are the fundamental questions that we should be addressing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u74	I think it is very important that I come back to this later on to the part of quality that we are looking at with each other, even if we are concerned about quality changes. We have also talked about this in the past year. I have indicated that this calls for a broader analysis than simply linking it one-on-one to a teacher who may or may not give instructions, as you are doing now. It also has to do with our society, for example. What is happening in our society? Are children still reading? Or do they always sit around for screens? You name it. It goes too far to go into that in detail, because then you will, of course, interrupt me. But I think it is very important, even when it comes to tackling the shortage of teachers, that we are indeed saving on the teachers at the school. That is also part of the approach. We have done this, among other things, with salaries and the means of working. We are also trying to support this in other ways; it is not just a question of money. Let us indeed put them in a position where they can continue to do their good work and not succumb to it. That's pretty worrying at this time, considering the big questions that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u75	Questions like the lack of teachers. I said in the first term: will we not just start with those small classes in the schools that have the most trouble? Especially in schools that are in neighbourhoods with more problems, the teacher shortage is felt the hardest. Why? Teachers have a lot of choice and then choose at some point, also given the workload, for a school where they can make it a little easier at the end of the day, just to put it bluntly. Would it not be wise to take the first step now in this combination of workload and schools where no one wants to work and say that we are now making extra money available to start with these small classes? Then it becomes possible for a teacher again what he has in the classroom and it becomes more attractive to work there. Then you have the guarantee of a smaller class.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u76	I believe that within the school itself the choice should be made in what way one wants to do it. I know that Mr Kwint would like to determine all this from The Hague. Smaller classes could be an option, but sometimes there are other things that are important in those schools, where the pressure is indeed felt heavily. That is one thing: that choice must be made there. That could indeed be a smaller class. We're also working on extra money. First of all, through the pressure equipment, we ensured that the schools were given extra money, including these schools. But you are right to say that the problems in these schools are very specific. They also need more money. This means that these schools receive much more money than schools that do not have this problem, because that is how the system works. The use of these resources is a choice to make within schools. Those could be smaller classes. It may also be that one wants to do something in a different way, with supporters or whatever. From the regional plans, I know that this is also happening in large cities, and we are also adding financial resources to support these schools. I agree with you that that is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u77	But then we're gonna do some math. An average school receives around €35,000 to relieve the workload. That's a nice agreement, you know; nothing but praise for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u78	That's gonna go up, isn't it? It's almost double.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u79	I'm gonna go ahead with the math. The education deficit policy is out of my mind about a third of that amount, 180 versus 450 million. Then you end up at a euro or 45,000. That is not even nearly enough to make the choice: we are going to introduce classes of 21 to 22 pupils into these schools, for the simple reason that with this group of young people the maximum possible is possible if we really want to help them move forward. The minister says it's up to the schools themselves, but they don't have that freedom at all. That's not what the money's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u80	As far as the resources for the education deficit policy are concerned, I have sent you the results. You can see what they get at school. They are substantial amounts, especially for schools in neighbourhoods and municipalities where the problem is quite large. Through a redistribution, we have ensured that it is distributed more fairly to municipalities which in the past did not have enough for that. This has had some consequences for some schools, but on balance these amounts are substantial. Plus the money from the workload, which will continue to increase in the coming period, plus what is happening from the municipalities, I see that especially in the big cities; there is a lot of attention and extra money for............................................................................................................................................................. That is an enormous extra boost compared to what other schools do not get. One has to make choices in that, and maybe not always everything you want. If that's your statement, I'll repeat it, but it's a lot more than if we'd just done it according to the traditional system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u81	I would like to go back to a part of Minister Slob's story that I have a very clear question about. You announced a study on the adequacy of funding in education. You said that efficiency must also be examined. Could you tell me a little bit more about the connection between them? There are subjective indicators in such a question, and before we start putting something together where we can't do much with the outcome, I'm very curious how you're going to investigate that efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u82	I have indicated that it is not easy, but I do think it should be done. It is not just a question of whether something is sufficient. Sometimes it is also a consideration of whether or not something is sufficient. If you ask ten people, there might be ten different answers. There have been investigations of this kind before, and I think we should repeat that. There has, of course, also been some progress in education in recent years. The second makes it even more subjective, and it is therefore difficult to assess the effectiveness of the use of the funds we make available. How we are going to conduct that research is a question of impact in the coming period. It has happened before, for example in the case of appropriate education, where the General Court has done so. You can still find that research if you go Google for a while. Such investigations have been there before and in the end it is a weighting how you assess the information you receive above. We'll be there together, and I'll share it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u83	I'm a little reluctant in this exercise, you might notice this because I'm afraid we're gonna have something we can't do very much with. Can the Minister keep us informed of the steps he is going to take on this dossier in the near future? Perhaps we can strengthen each other in that so that we can get the best possible outcome of this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u84	Sure, of course. I have shared with you that I intend to do so and, of course, we will share the follow-up with you and involve you in it. I am deeply encouraged by you to do so. Mr. Chairman. The side influx is really meant for the teachers, not the janitors. We've got other ways for that. Additional money has become available, including in the lumpsum, which can be used for this purpose. It is also used from the work pressure equipment. For that specific target group you indicate, all kinds of jars are also used, sometimes at municipal level, for example a reintegration budget. You name it. It can indeed help if schools get some more hands in the school. So that's not what we're gonna lie down for. Wherever possible, that should be done. Mr. Chairman. Schools have questions in this time of need, and that's it. Especially when people fall out of flu, they ask the inspection what they do and what they don't like. Sometimes we come up with concrete proposals: we want to do this, can we? The Ministry was also regularly asked about this. That is why, at the request of the schools themselves, work was made to have a little more guidance, sometimes in a certain order, which can or cannot be done in an emergency. I can tell you that the hand-out is as good as done, but it is therefore a co-production with the education inspection. I assume it will come out in the course of next week. Then perhaps new examples can also be added to that document, because there is also a lot of creativity in the country itself. But it is very important to have together what we find acceptable or not, even when it comes to monitoring the quality. We hope that next week we will be able to serve the schools that need them for the consideration they need to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u85	The minister quickly crossed the janitor's point. I asked him a number of questions about this. Together with Mrs van den Hul of the PvdA, I have put forward a concrete proposal to add 2 million from the budget to the arrangements we have for side-inflow. That scheme works well for teachers. Then why wouldn't this arrangement work well for janitors? I would like to ask the Minister again. I also asked him if there was sufficient training for janitors. Indeed, there are several pots, but at the same time I hear on my work visits from a lot of schools that teachers have to do a lot of tasks that can also be done by someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u86	The latter is true. You can also do something with that in support and that just helps. I also know that part of the pressure equipment is designed so that it has brought these extra hands into the school. They are very often people who can just be very practical within the school with all kinds of training. I don't know if there's any specific training for janitors. I know that it is very often people who come from practice and have all kinds of skills, including technical skills, that come out very well and also social skills that help them to deal with the students in a good way, because they are also very important in doing so. I do not want to make the scheme that is intended for teachers more comprehensive now for all kinds of other tasks within the school, because then we would have to change it completely, but this is also a principle of principle. I don't think it's wise. We are doing everything we can to ensure that this side-inflow scheme goes well, also while maintaining the qualities required for this. But if there are amendments to the effect that some money is still needed for concierges and from the question of whether we can let them go to the schools, I will look into that. Then, of course, coverage is very important, but that seems to me to be a much more logical way than using the side-inflow scheme. At least I don't intend to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u87	To make it concrete: we have a huge shortage of teachers. If nothing happens... Things are happening, but the latest figures are still that in ten years' time we will have a shortage of perhaps 17,000 teachers, in primary education alone. Figures on the workload show that teachers in primary education work unpaid overtime one day a week and that this time is largely or partly going to be in all kinds of things that are not directly related to teaching. We all know that. We also know that there are different ways of getting more people into the classroom and into the school. We know that side-inflow grant works well. Then why shouldn't we expand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u88	Of course, there's a lot more around that side influx. That's not just, like, a door to get money. This is also linked to all the quality aspects that we think are necessary and that people have to meet when they do come to the classroom. So I find it a bit of a strange figure to add the janitors. That's also a really different category within the school. That I think it's important that more janitors come to your service. This has, of course, been done in recent years. I believe that D66 was quite strong in that regard, as was the party to which I belong, but that was done from the Chamber. That has been quite an impulse, because in the years before they had all been cut back or at least part of it. I also admit that it would be a nice provision. From the work pressure equipment there is also just room to get extra janitors into the school. That's what schools use. If you want to give more financial support, of course you can. Then you'll have to come up with a cover proposal. That's what we can look at. But we do; it is part of the whole, because you are right: the figures in the future are high and we want them down. That's what we're really hard at work for, 24/7, I'm just saying. Mr. Chairman. In terms of time, I now focus on equality of opportunity. There are still a lot of questions about the shortage of teachers, but we talk about this at other times. If you look at the history of OCW, you can see that equality of opportunity was not such a subject at all in the early years. It was a subject, but it has gotten bigger and bigger over time. That's the special thing about it. In a way, there is also a bit of a common thread: the offer of opportunities to students was actually felt at any time, but in recent years we have also made a lot of extra efforts to do so. I have to tell you that sometimes it gets to me and even gets emotional. I'm just going to say it in those words when I meet people who haven't had the opportunity at first, but who still grab them at later age. I really had one of those moments at the beginning of September, in the Week of Alphabetization. I was then confronted with language ambassadors who are committed to tackling low literacy. In the Netherlands 2.5 million people are low-literate. One of them's in the bleachers. I've already spotted him, fat. Maybe he can raise his hand. Is that okay, Mr. Chairman? He's in the front row. Fat was low-lettered seven years ago. He's been through a great development, and now he's just a language ambassador. He stands up for people who are now in the same position as he was back then. He's trying to get them out of there. Fat then recited me a poem. I said: I'm going to recite that once if I have a chance. It's very short, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking permission to do that. The best thing would be if I did that myself, of course, but that does not fit in with the order of this sitting. That poem is called Time. Fat wrote it down. "Time you get to learn and write, but don't wait too long. It's a shame if you don't do something about it. A lot of people know that and have made their choice. They're grateful they took the step. Step over your shame and fight with your language barrier." Thank you, Fat, for these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr. Chairman. There are more people like Fat. Have a look at the site. They inspire me, and I hope many, to really fill up on these kinds of topics. Low literacy belongs to my colleague, but this was a question addressed to me by Mr Rog. Is the foundational education part of this? Oh, yeah! That's what we're gonna do with the sequel. It is extremely important that we commit ourselves to this. Again, Fat, you are an inspiration to many. Step over shame and fight. That is what we are doing on a subject such as appropriate education. That's not easy. We talked about it before the summer and we will discuss it again later. I have also indicated what further action I will be taking in the coming period. I would also like to have a more active conversation with the people in the country, in different regions, to pick up what they are doing because we are now working towards an evaluation that has been agreed. He'll be here soon enough. It's incredibly important to do the good things here. It is repulsive, also because society is changing in this way and because very much than one-on-one is being pushed into appropriate education, while sometimes it is a broader issue. We know that. But that is without prejudice to the fact that the issue is commonplace. We stand next to the teacher and we also want to make the teacher much more owner of this subject. So we're working hard on that. Indeed, we must also look closely at the use of resources. I'm always very much for out of the box thinking, not always out of the performance box, but thinking out of the box. Mrs Westerveld asked whether these partnerships could not simply weigh; then everyone can choose. Of course that's out of the box thinking, but that's a little too wild. I'll be honest with you, I've done it out loud myself, but then you run the risk of causing damage. There could be a situation in which you say in a region "boys, we open it, say it." And then, so to speak, three quarters is for a particular solution, but a quarter is not. And then you're in a situation where you're holding each other hostage. In any case, it is really important that schools seek each other out and help each other out, even in the financial sense, by shifting some funds, and sometimes by putting the students in a good place because one school has a little more specific expertise than the other. Those collaborations are important in this respect. But we will indeed have to consider this with each other in the evaluation. Is this what this is supposed to be? That's how we figured it out? What are the proceeds, and not just in the financial sense? What does it mean for the kids? I'd like to wait for that moment. The evaluation is coming pretty soon. There will be another interim report; the next is the evaluation. Then we can continue the debate on this. But I'd like to be careful of all too wild things in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u90	I hear the Minister's words, but I'm not saying stop working together. I asked what would happen if we lifted the legal obligation to have a partnership. Then schools in a region can see for themselves how they want to work together, but we have no longer required by law that we have 152 separate partnerships with our own administration, our own agency, our own supervisory board and our own financial reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u91	I have just answered the question as to what kind of situation might arise and that you are not going to come out very well with each other. In fact, the situation is very different from one cooperation to another. The image of partnerships with a very extensive staff, desks and stones and I know much what, doesn't make sense everywhere. And where that is the case, they are often quite large units where they try to work very efficiently. However, that will have to indicate the research into the use of resources. So if the evaluation is there, it is, of course, very legitimate for us to look again at these choices and what the consequences are in the end. We may also be able to look at variants of what else might be possible. But you shouldn't be doing that on the run right now. That wouldn't be very fair towards the field either. It was GroenLinks, among others, together with the Christian Union and D66, who made sure that the whole route started a year later and that the savings resulting from it of 300 million have been eliminated. We've already helped them, so to speak. Anyway, now for the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u92	I have one final point to make. I said very clearly yesterday in my speech that the people who work for the partnership really do so with a heart for education and children. So no offense about people working together. I have also indicated that there are very large differences. In one place you see that the partnership almost acts as a small office where the money is transferred directly to the schools, but that in other places people have been hired and that it has a somewhat larger size. In one place you hear that things are going very well and in the other you hear some more complaints about a partnership. Yesterday, a report was produced showing that a lot of teachers either have no idea or are not so satisfied with what is happening. So all the signals clearly show that something must be done. Is the Minister prepared to conduct an investigation or experiment in a particular region, in which we stop the legal obligation to have a partnership?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u93	That evaluation is coming up pretty fast. I'll give you another progress report. Then the next document you are going to get the evaluation. Then we'll look back at each other and see how it's going to be and how we want it to be different in the future. What we can do and what you can do is already think about any other options. I am also going to the country myself to hear what is going on in the regions. There are really differences in how it is experienced. There are regions where things are really great and where people get angry, so to speak, when we give the impression that things are not going well, because they find that very demotivating, which I can see a little bit. Anyway, there's just diversity. So I am going to go into those regions to hear from them what it is about when things are going well and what the success factors are, and what it is about when things are not going well, for example the regulation or the people themselves. The latter can also happen; you can change arrangements but if people don't change then... So we're gonna get to work on this. It's all coming back, and in the meantime, we're on it. And I'm not saying that as a death-killer, because it's an important subject for me too. I would like to leave aside a few of the issues that we have already discussed in a general discussion, because otherwise it will be a bit of a repetition. We have talked recently about shadow education. There is now an initiative law on compulsory parental contributions. Compliments towards the proposers. That proposal has been submitted to the Chamber, so that's where the trial is going to take place and at some point I'm probably invited as an advisor to join it. I look forward to that. As you know, I personally find it undesirable that if something is voluntary, it leads to exclusion if it is simply tasks that belong to the school. I am also working in the legal texts to see what we can tighten up, because of course there is everything in the law. I am also waiting for what comes out of the general assembly of the two sectoral councils. I had hoped it would be there sooner, but it has been indicated that it will take a little more time, but it will come this month November. That is where proposals seem to be. I have not seen them on this subject. Then we will see if that is enough if they are finally accepted by the Assembly of Members. So we'll come back to this, too. Finally, the quality of education. That wasn't very high on the administrative agenda in 1918. In the meantime, it is, and rightly so. This also has to do with the questions that come from society and politics. We know that we had the State of Education in April, in which critical comments were made about the decline in quality. That will be especially at the top. So the basic quality was in order, but at the top it fell down a bit, making it all a bit average. The State of Education we have had did not yet focus on the time when the lack of teachers really began to have all its effects. So in that respect, of course, we are also curious to see what will be next. However, we will have to continue to tackle this issue because it is very important that we maintain that quality and that we also offer opportunities for children at different levels to realise the opportunities they have. Children who have been reminded by Mr Heerema too, we see them as talents, for example, who are highly gifted. But sometimes it can also be a world achievement if you, as a school but also as a student, come to the basic quality; that you have also made an enormous effort. Maybe even greater achievement than someone at the top who might, so to speak, do it with his fingers in his nose. So there's a difference between students and schools in what one achieves. We help schools in all kinds of ways to get much better focus, to find coherence, including in the supply. This is also why the curriculum programme is intended to support school leaders, who are a fairly crucial factor in the whole and also to find out what the success factors are. Especially when they see that there is a difference between schools that are in similar circumstances. So without prejudice we will also have to continue on this subject, partly in the line we have written to you in the response to the State of Education and have also discussed with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u94	Back to the previous block, because that block of equal opportunities had ended quite abruptly. That was a little too fast for me. There were two points left. Firstly, that is the issue of early and pre-school education. You said something about this at the very beginning, and we would come back to that later. You're now seeing a fallback of kids at that preschool, who just catch up there before they go to elementary school. Why is that? Because we now have to ask for a contribution, because of the aggregation of day-care facilities and so on; that does not make much difference. The point is that even municipalities that wouldn't want to ask for this contribution because of the equality of opportunity are now about obliged to do so by law. Now a municipality like Amsterdam doesn't ask: pay for us. They ask: give us the legal space so that we ourselves can keep this important provision free of charge for the children who so badly need it. What does the Minister think of these suggestions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u95	Mr President, I have answered this in the written questions, also on behalf of my colleague, who deals with childcare money, which is indeed subject to a different regime. Eventually, speaking from my perspective when it comes to pre-school and early school education, when the children are included in the target group, municipalities also have room to do so, and they are given the means to finance it in full. If they are going to make choices themselves to connect all kinds of arrangements, then we have said: we are not going to stop them. But, of course, the legal regime will continue to stand for it. And we're going to take a look at the outflow that's taking place there, at least there's a decline, which is the exact causes of that, because we don't have that very sharp with each other either. The conclusion "that's the result of..." must, I think, be better substantiated. So we're gonna have a conversation. I have this month, because it is now November, also a conversation with the G4. Then the aldermen will sit around the table and this will undoubtedly also be on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u96	The aldermen who are involved in this only indicate themselves that they see that decline right from the moment parents have to pay their own contribution. And if at one time 30% fewer young people appear on such an early pre-school education from the moment their own contribution has to be paid, then I really find it a little too wait-and-see to say: we will continue to investigate what is causing this. Admittedly, correlation and causality are sometimes confused concepts, but the timing here is so coincidental that I dare to do it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u97	Money intended to combat educational disadvantages can simply be used to provide children with the supply they need when they are lagging behind. We are going to make even more money available; there is going to be about 750 million towards municipalities and schools. I'm gonna tell you my head, but I think I got it right. It is, of course, ultimately up to the municipality to determine that target group completely. That's what we're delivering; we're even turning in more money for that. I'm glad you did, too. I also hope that they will ensure that these target groups are traced and that the money ends up in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u98	For a moment, the Minister touched on the subject of "Giftness and talents." I was wondering if that was the answer to the contribution I made on this subject in my first term. At that time, I felt that I had a rather extensive discussion of talents, talent development and recognition in education and on high talent. If he comes back to that later, I'm gonna make my interruption later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u99	I feel a little pressure from your side towards me. So much is being asked here on such large subjects that I went through it a little bit. On some things I have thought: leave it for a while, because we have also talked about it extensively. This issue has also been addressed in the written reply. So if you have a specific question about it, then perhaps the fastest way is to ask it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u100	One specific question, then. In my term, I have dealt with the resources available for high-skills released from the coalition agreement. There are all kinds of ways to use that. It's a bit of a fragmented landscape. There is, for example, a beautiful initiative called LIVE in Leiden, which can help children through a combination of care and education in a class of gift. That's under pressure. Is this a project that could be financed from these funds for high-giftness?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u101	A specific subsidy scheme has been set up for this purpose. This means that one can apply from Leiden and also from other cities. As you know, there is, of course, once and for all a border, the financial frontier, to the allocation of resources. I do not, of course, know all the ins and outs of this proposal, but if we have plans for talent and can also use financial resources for this, then we should just knock on the door. The door is now just open to submit an application. In the end, a balance has to be struck. I'm not going to do that personally, but you know that resources have been made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u102	In conclusion, we will probably meet in the spring after the evaluations have been carried out in the field of talent recognition and development. That seems to me to be an excellent time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u103	Fine. Then we can sit around the table for that right at the beginning of 2019. The final question is that of Mr Bishop. It is about the vog, which also applies to the volunteers in education. Today is November 1st. That arrangement goes in today. I have good news for you and also for the volunteers in education: one can register digitally and then one has a free vog. That is good news, because then there will be no other money to be invested in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u104	So much for the Minister. Thank you very much. One more question from Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u105	Maybe I missed it, but I don't think we've talked about the point in my question about the vso. However, I would like to comment briefly on the salary position of teachers in the USA. We've talked about that before. I also know that the Minister has a warm heart for it. I said then: it would be very nice if that collective agreement from the p.o. to the vo would be drawn. Then the minister said, "Go find a good cover." That's what we did. That is easier said than done, by the way. Does the Minister agree with us that, in the current situation, with a p.o.-cao for non-special education, there is a danger of an additional shortage of teachers in the non-profit sector, because it makes working there even more unattractive? That's our concern. Does he share it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u106	I share the concern about the shortage of teachers in the broad sense. I also repeat that it is sometimes felt very specific there. That is why I was very happy with the means for technology, because that simply helps again. It's not that easy just to make one-two-three such a collective change. That must also be done specifically at the tables. And it just costs money, at least 20 million, but maybe even more. Furthermore, in the field it is not unisono that the switch has to be made. It is often fully integrated into special education and change will have consequences. Mr. Chairman. I don't have the money and I can't make it available. What I can promise you is that I will explain in a letter what is going on here in more detail. Then we can talk about it at another time. I will therefore highlight the other side, namely the problems that arise if you change the collective agreement. These are not just financial problems, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u107	I would like to thank the Minister for this commitment. I think it would be a good idea to look at this in greater detail. I am well aware of this, I hear that there are also other factors on work visits. For example, it is important that people with a pabo background can continue to work in the vso. However, I would ask the Minister to include in that further letter whether he might see a chance to look, perhaps towards the Spring paper, at some future time, to look together for these additional resources without burdening the teacher's grant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u108	If you knew how many times we have been looking for resources in recent times! That seems very strange in terms of the size of the budget, but I really have to temper your expectations in that respect. The chances of that happening are very low. But I think it would be a good idea to lay down more broadly what all the ins and outs, and not just the financial ones, are in relation to such a switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. Mr. Kwint has gone through his interruptions. Let me put it right: the SP is through its interruptions. Unless you, Mr. Kwint, have a comment on the order, but that's not the case, we're going to listen to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u110	If they are items that have not yet been dealt with, then it is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u111	Then you can say that briefly, but that's... In one sentence!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u112	I'm going to try in one sentence to mention all four points that I haven't heard come back. These are: the possibility of retaining summer schools by not letting them flow into the lump sum; the concrete question of whether the final results of curriculum.now come to the Chamber even after a lecturer survey; my amendment to support the trade unions by withdrawing 3 million from the performance box and thus allowing the professionalisation of teachers; the specific question of whether last year's position, namely that the efficiency reduction is not going to come into the classroom, is still the cabinet position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u113	If the answer can be in one sentence, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u114	I'm afraid not. The amendments will come in the second period. I believe that summer schools have been discussed in writing. Curriculum and the way we deal with it: you know that this will be followed up in the spring. Of course, it is important that the Court has stated that in the first term it is also in your direction that there is also a desire for support. In fact, that's crucial. That's why we put the teachers in position. Our commitment was indeed that if there are cuts, they should not touch the primary process. We are committed to this, together with all those involved in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you. Mr Beertema, I understand. No? Then we're done with the first term. I understand there's a need for a suspension. That's a little unusual, because we're just attached to a very tight schedule. That schedule just came to us through the Registry. So I'm just gonna go on with the second term, and I'm gonna go on with it now. The first speaker, Mr Bertema, is simply there and so I will, with your permission, just do that. Mr. Beertema, one second. Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u116	Mr President, not that I would not listen to Mr Beertema, but may I ask you to suspend for another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u117	What's that for? That's highly unusual and we vultures through time. If you need to go to the bathroom, you can do it during Mr Bertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u118	No, I'm an old man, but I don't have to go to the bathroom. I just need a little more time because we're still on a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u119	Can't that happen with Mr. Beertema? We also had lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u120	No, because it always goes so fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u121	We had a first term on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u122	Well, Mr. Chairman, let's not talk about this too long. I'm just asking for a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u124	I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u125	Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u126	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'd like to join that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mrs van den Hul agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u128	That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mr Heerema agrees with this. I'm suspending for ten minutes, Mr. Beertema. I'm sorry. You're welcome to stand, if you'd like, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u130	I hope you all have your motions ready. Full of anticipation beats our hearts. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Beertema. He has 14 minutes to speak. Most speakers have three, four, five minutes left per person. The clerk can tell them that. I call Mr Bertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two leaders for the comprehensive explanation of the budget and for answering the many questions. I have six more motions to make as a contribution from the PVV to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u132	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u133	Six only.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u134	We're gonna sit down for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u135	In my first term I thought about the annoying visits that primary schools in particular think they should bring to mosques. Mr Bishop has also dealt with this. We have just discussed it in an interrupting debate with the Minister. In any case, he does not want children to carry out religious actions. I can understand that, but that does not go far enough. As far as we are concerned, vulnerable, easily influenced schoolchildren should stay completely away from the mosque. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Islam is a totalitarian ideology;]] [[Whereas pupils from schools should not be exposed to visits to ideological institutions which promote standards and values incompatible with our democratic rule of law;]] [[noting that the main stream of Islam endorses what the Turkish President said: "The mosques are our barracks, the domes are our helmets, the minarets our bayonets";]] [[noting that mosque visits throughout the Netherlands are still on the curriculum;]] [[noting that these visits cause a great deal of concern to parents throughout the country;]] [[calls on the government to end all school visits to mosques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema and Mr De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u136	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I also talked about the role of teachers in the teaching process. The role of the teacher needs to be led again. That is hard to realize in the chaos that is far too common in the classroom. Mobile phones play a dominant role in this. They distract from the lesson, from the fabric, it takes teachers a lot of time and effort to create a starting situation in which they can finally be taught. The fight that teachers have to deliver against the cell phone runs out of spigates. I think we should help those teachers, and I will do that with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the presence of mobile phones in the classroom has a negative impact on the teaching process;]] [[noting that teachers have thereby wasted disproportionate time monitoring the order and generating attention to the teaching content;]] [[calls on the Government to ban mobile phones in primary and secondary education and in secondary vocational education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u137	Then I have previously tabled a motion asking for a code of conduct for teachers. Teachers increasingly take political positions vis-à-vis their students and students. In many cases, there is even indoctrination and controversy, as happened at the University of Amsterdam, where Jordan Peterson spoke yesterday. Another example. Yesterday a class of ROC Amsterdam visited the province house in Haarlem. A PVV colleague of mine would teach that class a lesson there. When it became clear that he was a PVV, the teacher got up and left with nine students who followed his example. The teacher refused to shake hands with my colleague. He later declared that he did not want to sit in one room with "those racists." Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, we should finally identify how often these things happen, from any angle. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas political and ideological neutrality is at stake in education;]] [[noting that education should focus solely on the transfer of critical thinking without any form of political and ideological bias;]] [[believes that parents, pupils and students do not now have the opportunity to report teachers, teachers and teachers who are guilty of political and ideological indoctrination;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a hotline where parents, pupils and students can report cases of political indoctrination by teachers, teachers, teachers and professors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u138	I am a little surprised by this remark made by Mr Beertema. How does he see such a hotline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u139	That hotline may look a bit the same as my inbox. I receive a lot of messages from parents describing cases of teachers who start classes too late and end up with a piece of Trump bashen, for example, or drop them off at the PVV or repeat again how racist, fascist we are, what an incredible Nazis we are. It passes through the whole week. That goes on and on. Many of my colleagues... Of course, I get more than other colleagues that kind of messages from schools. I can imagine it happening from the other side. The technique of setting up a hotline is not that difficult. I'm not going into that any further. That's really something to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u140	Rounding off, short, because I'd like to go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u141	It is, of course, about the intention of such a hotline. I understand from Mr Beertema that, at the moment they feel that they are being indoctrinated by their teacher, whatever that may be, students should be able to send an e-mail to a hotline with an indication of who the teacher is. What's to be done with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u142	What I want in the first place is to make it clear how often this happens now. Under the previous cabinet, I had a number of exchanges of views with Minister Bussemaker. I have presented the most prescriptive examples to her and to this minister as well. But these ministers have that in common: they simply deny it. "I don't recognize that image" it is. We recognize that image, because we have to deal with it almost every day. I would like this Minister to finally understand how often that happens. I would like to return to that example of yesterday's UvA: the visit of such a Jordan Peterson, an ordinary Christian conservative scientist from Canada. What's going on? There's not going to be any protests from the students. No, I think it's 90 teachers, employees, professors of the UvA who send an idiot manifesto in which everything is said how perfide that is. While Abou Jahjah stood there, an infamous anti-Semite. While that black-and-white activist Sylvana Simons was there. Then no manifesto was written. Then there was no need for an extra watchdog on stage. It's too crazy for words. Today or no, yesterday another eleven other staff members, academics of the UvA, added themselves with a totally incoherent letter, calling on the UvA administration to repeat their entire creed on diversity and non-discrimination. I'd like to ask Mrs Westerveld that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u143	No, no, no, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u144	These are typical examples of idiotic indoctrination. They're out there poisoning entire generations of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u145	Actually, I'd like to move on to your next motion. I've heard Mrs Westerveld twice. Mr Azarkan... No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u146	I got a... This was entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u147	Yeah, but we also have the VAO Horses coming up next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u148	A very brief point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u149	Half a sentence, now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u150	This is academic freedom. Mr Peterson was invited by the UvA. Then people working at the UvA may object to that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u151	All right, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u152	That has to do with academic freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u153	Mr Azarkan and then we move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u154	I'm trying to understand what Mr Bertema wants. If I sum it up correctly, he actually says: if 90 professors, 90 university teachers take their own freedom to find something from another scientist, then I want that reported to the PVV click line. That's what you want to set up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u155	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u156	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u157	Clickline, that's a nice word. That's what we keep in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u158	Your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u159	Okay. I have another motion aimed at the almost uninhibited influx of foreign students through the engulation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the rate of growth of higher education is growing at an uncontrolled rate and that it is not justified to continue this trend with regard to the quality of education;]] [[noting that Article 7.2 of the Higher Education Act provides that the position of Dutch in higher education and science remains guaranteed;]] [[also requests the Government to restore Dutch as a leading language in all studies, except in studies where English has proven added value,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u160	Then I have a motion on that binding study opinion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the binding study advice (BSA) has proven itself to be a good tool to protect students from wrong choice of study at an early stage;]] [[Whereas incorrect choice of study has a very negative impact on the financial situation for students due to the unnecessary increase in student debt;]] [[whereas many students also claim to benefit from a BSA;]] [[calls on the government to leave the BSA to the higher education institutions themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beertema, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Bishop and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u161	My final motion is in line with those visits to mosques that I talked to the Minister about. But the motion goes a little further. It also fits wonderfully into the PVV's initiative law on expressions of Islam. Education is such an expression, even a very important expression. The motion speaks for itself and reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that education is at the root of a community of shared values;]] [[Whereas education is the prime place where shared democratic values of equality and respect as enshrined in the Constitution should be passed on from one generation to the next;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude Islam, which lays down its own ideological rules over the Dutch secular legislation on equality between men and women, homosexual and heterosexual, and believer and apostate, from the freedom of education as laid down in Article 23 of the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema and Mr De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u162	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u163	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Tielen from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u164	Thank you to the Chamber and the Ministers for the debate on the Education budget. A lot of good things have changed, to a large extent, to further improve the quality of our education. The OCW budget is a large budget with large blocks and lumpsum fees. We've heard a lot about that. However, we would like to have a little more insight into a number of parts of these blocks, including the estimates of international students. Unfortunately, no commitment has been made to this, but I would like to make a promise that I will ask for it again and again. Furthermore, we do have a motion to clarify the transparency of the figures about the different types of students. In the written reply, the Minister indicated the "buttons," but not the actual figures from practice. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch higher education is financed by state resources, supplemented by resources from the third money stream;]] [[noting that the distribution of this funding depends on the student type;]] [[Whereas the adopted Bruins/Duisenberg motion calls for monitoring and periodic reporting of the extent of the alpha, beta, gamma and technical sciences (Room 33009, No. 25);]] [[Whereas the funding system to distribute funding among higher education institutions is being revised by summer 2019;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives does not now have a clear overview or insight into the actual distribution ratios between the student types and therefore cannot assess the relationships;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide an overview of the distribution of all OCW resources (education and research, first and second money flows) between the different student types, both for the total student population and the ratio per student per year for the years 2014 to 2019;]] [[invites the government to complete this overview with the additions from the third money stream, including the different student types, and to inform the Chamber of Representatives before the summer of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u165	Thank you also for the Minister's commitment to stronger exchanges between industry and education. The Minister's words about the "hybrid teacher".... I think it is a strange word; perhaps we can think of something better for it..... and I am pleased with the obstacles they encounter. However, I am curious to see what action the Minister intends to take and what time lines it intends to take. Maybe she can go into that later. I have also heard good words from the Minister about practical learning. We all think it is important that this is a continuous investment in the professionals of top MBOs. I would also like to say: not words, but deeds. But I am not a Rotterdammer, so I say: no intentions, but a motion. I'd like to table a motion that reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas learning pathways make an important contribution to the training of (MBO) students in professional practice;]] [[Whereas the grant scheme encourages employers to offer learning places and allows students to gain relevant practical experience;]] [[Considering that up to 2023 budget for the grant scheme is reserved on the OCW budget, but that learning companies are still in uncertainty as to whether the grant scheme will be extended beyond 2019 and may therefore be reluctant to offer learning pathways;]] [[calls on the government to establish practical training for the grant scheme until 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen, Mr Kuik, Mr Kwint, Mr Bishop, Mr Bruins, Mr Beertema, Mr Özdil, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u166	Now I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u167	Through your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u168	That's weird. I think we had 12 minutes left on Tuesday. There's two of us. So I should have six minutes. If that is now halved again, it is nice, but these are computational qualities that I do not support myself. It's just a question to the Registry, but I think I just have three minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u169	Mr. Herma has nine more, we believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u170	Do you need nine?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u171	I'm not gonna burn in the group, am I? I don't want that on my conscience. If we're gonna have to leave you alone for a while, we're gonna do it. An interruption of the VVD towards the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u172	Mr President, let me be bold and give three of my nine minutes to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u173	You're a good man!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u174	Well, sure. Thank you for acknowledging that, Mr. Bosma. Then the VVD needs a little more clarity about a few things. Mr Beertema had formulated a splendid motion on the BSA, so I did not think it necessary to make one for myself. I'm happy to be under it. Then about the education pillar in the academic career. The Minister's written answers give promising signals. I also hear promising signals from the academic world itself that education is an important pillar alongside research, but we would like to add a nice stimulus. That's why I have a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that scientific education is composed of the combination of two pillars, namely research and education;]] [[Whereas academic career opportunities are based on the research pillar, promoted by grants and prizes;]] [[Whereas the education pillar should also be a full element of an academic career;]] [[Whereas there are no leading prices for excellence in education;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the VSNU and the Academy, to examine whether and how an education prize for academics can stimulate the educational pillar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u175	On the motion by Mr Beertema on the BSA, which has signed the VVD. I also had an interruption debate with Mr Futselaar on the BSA in the first term. I have given my opinion on this, but I did say that I think we should have the debate on the Minister's letter first. That sounds so fancy. Does the VVD agree, before we start to sign or put to the vote in anticipation of any debate here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u176	I think the issue before us is fairly clear. The minister threw a very sturdy stone into the pond. I'm just as sweet as throwing a rock in the pond. I think that instead of all the wooliness in the debates we have about what was said when and what exactly is intended, we should simply put an end to it. I'd like us to put an end to ambiguity. As far as we are concerned, this is a very clear point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u177	Okay. I therefore conclude that there is no longer any resistance at the VVD to speak first about a letter from the Minister before giving an opinion on it. That raises expectations for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u178	I think Mr Van Meenen is putting an end to his interruption a little too pessimisticly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u179	Thank you. Then Mr. Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u180	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, we held a wide-ranging debate on, among other things, lumpsum payment, control of accountability and control of schools. I am pleased to note that there is room for both ministers to clarify this next year. This will also be done through research into efficiency and adequacy. I think that if we get the right signals and the right figures, we can take a step in that direction. That would be very nice. Mr. Chairman. I have tried to have a brief debate with the Minister, but because of time that could not be expressed. That little debate was about talent and talent. I think it is a very important subject for the VVD, and I am glad that we can take further steps in the spring. There you can expect a strong contribution from us, because we have our ideas on how we can improve that. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we received the Monitor appropriate education. There are really alarming figures in that. We have already discussed this in previous debates, put forward proposals for it and gave ideas for it to the Ministry. But if you do see that 91% of teachers have too little attention or can have too little attention for children who need attention, and 89% have too little attention for the regular children in the classroom because they need to shift their attention, then this is indeed the time to see where the space is in the future with appropriate education to approach that differently. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has always been strongly in favour of appropriate education in the form in which we have introduced it. I would like to take this opportunity, like the first-term shot, to look for room in appropriate education to deal with it more broadly. I can't tell you how to shape that right now, but I'd like to find more space with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. We're going to sign one motion, Mr. Bishop's motion. It'll be filed later. That was my second term. Thank you to the ministers for all the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u181	Thank you. Then Mr Özdil of the group... Oh, excuse me, Mrs Westerveld had another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u182	I have another question for Mr Heerema of the VVD. When I was in place in my first term, he asked about the pay gap between primary and secondary education. Between starting salaries the difference is €99 gross. If we look a few steps further, the difference has risen to €516 at the end of the salary. On an annual basis this is a difference of €6.192. Doesn't Mr Heerma think that's a pay gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u183	What Mrs Westerveld refers to is the pay scale LC. In LC there are about 32% of teachers; in LB there are about 42% of teachers in secondary education. In primary education, the majority of teachers, 63%, are in the L10 scale. So I think you have to compare the two scales in which the largest number of teachers is in, and there is the difference in starting salary €99 and in final salary €126. Between the pay scales up there, so the L11 and the LC scale, the difference is indeed large. I couldn't agree more. But don't forget that in that LC scale there is also a large proportion of first-graders, who have just had a different education than the second-graders who work in primary education. So I imagine there's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u184	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u185	I used the same scales as Mr. Heerema. Because with the LC scale there is even a difference of, say, €943 per month. So my question is: does Mr Heerema think that there is no pay gap if you compare the same scales? I just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr. President, I have to respond to that, don't I? You can have a grade discussion. I have here the figures of the Ministry: it is €4.228 at €4.748. The difference is €520. If you look at the difference between first graders and second graders, then there are clear possibilities to show that difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u187	Thank you. Then Mr Özdil of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. He has two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the ESC concluded in 2013 that the image and valuation of the MBO in the Netherlands are lagging behind;]] [[Whereas the Minister has rightly stated that young people in the MBO are just as students;]] [[noting that this government has taken a good step by changing the term "participant" into the term "student" in the law;]] [[considers that the logical next step is titulature for MBO students;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the whole field, to examine the basis for the Titulature for MBO students with the aim of introducing them;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an increase in the number of pupils or students is in principle positive for our country;]] [[noting that such an increase in estimates is leading to additional cuts or targets in education;]] [[noting that this is counterproductive, including for the workload in education;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for increasing the estimates of the number of participants in education no longer to be met by educational targets and to inform the Court of Justice of the Spring paper;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the Education Council's recommendation to "assess the adequacy of funding and monitor it continuously',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to change the rate of interest on student loans from the current five-year rate to the ten-year rate;]] [[Whereas the government's sole objective is to give up "the financial sustainability of the study funding system and public finances in the broad long term";]] [[Whereas for this reason no political party in the Lower House had a higher interest rate on student loans in its electoral programme;]] [[considers that students are not dairy cows;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the planned change in the interest rate rate rate;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-43]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-44]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil, Mr Van Raan, Mr Beertema, Mr Futselaar, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u189	Finally, Mr President. If the coalition parties also break the promise of low interest rates on student debt, the social support for the loan system will disappear altogether. Thank you. For the last ten seconds, I'd be happy to pass on to Mr Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u190	There's only six of them, but we keep them. I call Mrs Westerveld. She's got three minutes and four seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I said a number of things about appropriate education. I welcome what the VVD colleague has said about this, because something really needs to be done. The sounds we hear that it's not going well aren't new. They're not from yesterday's monitor; we've been hearing them from teachers for years. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many partnerships function well, but others are perceived as an additional bureaucratic layer of administration;]] [[noting that the financial reserve of partnerships is growing, which means that they have a joint reserve of EUR 238 million;]] [[noting that this money should go to children with a need for care;]] [[Whereas other forms of cooperation can also be envisaged without an additional layer of administration;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine in the evaluation of appropriate education the consequences of removing the legal obligation of the partnerships;]] [[calls on the Government to include alternative forms of regional cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 152 partnerships together have estimated EUR 238 million in the bank account;]] [[noting that there are also school boards in basic education with very high reserves;]] [[Whereas tuition fees should be paid to children rather than to the bank account of associations and school boards;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with associations and school boards on the maximum size of the reserve;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-46]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Azarkan and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u192	Then there's a motion on the workload. There's a lot going on in primary education, but we forget about secondary education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement provides for funds to be made available to combat the workload in primary education;]] [[noting that there is also a high workload in secondary education;]] [[noting that this is often not visible because, for example, classes are not sent home;]] [[Whereas, in order to combat the workload, it is also necessary to know more precisely what the causes are;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the actual time investment of teachers in secondary education in lessons, preparation time, review time, contact with parents and other tasks, and to compare the results of this study with the number of hours formally appointed to a teacher,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Raan and Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u193	In my contribution, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Özdil, I have drawn attention to emancipation. I would also like to make a motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a majority of Parliament wants the Rainbow Voting Box Agreement to be implemented as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas it is not clear when this ballot agreement will be implemented by component;]] [[Calls on the Government to report on the state of play, on the timetable for implementation and when the necessary legislative proposals are sent to the Chamber by component of the Rainbow Voting Box Agreement, and to send this report to the Lower House before 1 January 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld, Mr Özütok and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u194	We have also tabled an amendment calling for an additional 2 million for reserves, together with Mr Van den Hul of the PvdA. We are very interested in the Minister's response to this proposal from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u195	Thank you. We're gonna listen to the fraction of the CDA. First Mr. Rog, who has three minutes left. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u196	Mr. Chairman. This budget treatment is, of course, largely concerned with teacher shortages and the salary position of teachers. Much has been done by the Cabinet, and I have just had an amendment circulated that makes an additional contribution to addressing the shortage of teachers by securing structural budget for the regional approach and the subsidy side-intromers. I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that later. In addition, my colleague, Mr Van Meenen, will table a motion which aims to ensure that, in this tripartite consultation that we are about to do, I am pleased that the Minister has confirmed this once again, looking for ways of using some of the resources for pay or career prospects in primary education. I myself have another motion on teaching in VMBO. I'm about to read it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u197	I have two comments to make. One: under the amendment Mr Rog is talking about there are more people. The entire coalition is underneath. It's good to notice that. A second point is that you announce that you are tabling a motion with Mr Van Meenen on the performance box and resources that you may wish to allocate differently. We share that you can see if resources from that box can be spent differently. But if you zoom in on what those resources are now being spent on, teachers, class assistants, teachers of cultural education or ICT, then it turns out that a large proportion of those resources are in salaries or in positions at school, so just with the teachers. You want to do something else with that if I understood the paper correctly yesterday. Then, in my view, the effect is that people are fired at school in favour of a salary increase with colleagues, and one more increase in the workload. I wonder if Mr Rog can reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u198	If that were the result of an adopted Van Meenen/Rog motion, I would be extremely unhappy. We shouldn't do that. I note that we have sent extra money to education in the past and that a quarter of that money has been transferred to a bank account in the past period and less than half of that money has been transferred to a teacher. I also note that this cabinet has a lot of extra money available, among other things, for work pressure relief for education and a lot of money for salary improvement. What we want is for this government, our Minister of Education, to talk to the government and the teachers' representatives to see if some of that money, which I do not think we can always determine whether teachers have been able to get to it responsibly, can be put into teachers' wallets. I think that is a responsible research move that I very much support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u199	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u200	Yeah, rounding up and short. That was something else in the paper yesterday. It said: "CDA and D66 offer salary increases to teachers." I now notice that the CDA is making a move back in this: if that is not possible now, it may not happen. I find that extremely unfortunate, because it seems as if you are telling teachers a sausage that you may not be able to live up to. I think that, in view of the way in which salaries are being discussed at the moment, is simply a dangerous situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u201	That calls for a response. Mr Heerema heard my contribution here the day before yesterday. He heard me say that CNV Education made the suggestion to look at this in that tripartite consultation. We have embraced this suggestion and ask the Minister to do so. As far as I am concerned, this does not include irresponsible matters or pre-empting results. They're not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u202	Mr. Rog is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u203	I was going to read a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that teachers are qualified to teach in the MBO by means of a teaching and teaching certificate;]] [[Considering that this competence does not allow teachers to teach in VMBO and that this is a problem for vocational courses for which there are too few teachers;]] [[noting that there is an ongoing exploration of the system of powers;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine explicitly in this review of the system of competences how the Secondary Education Act can be adapted so that teachers who have obtained their competence in a vocationally oriented subject by means of a teaching and teaching certificate can also teach the same subject in the VMBO;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of this in spring 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u204	The Education Co-operation is being dismantled. One of the important and successful pillars under the umbrella of the Education Co-operation was the TeachersDevelopingFonds. That is what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Teachers Development Fund (LOF) has proven itself to be a valuable laboratory, of, for and by teachers with impact on educational innovation, development and innovation;]] [[Considering that the LOF grant scheme is uncertain after 2019, while there is broad support and only 60% of the LOF grant applications can be met;]] [[further noted that for the years 2019 to 2023, an amount of EUR 2.945 million has been included in the OCW budget for the Education Co-operation, while being dismantled, subject to responsibility for the teacher register;]] [[calls on the Government to make available to LOF the part of the budget budget that is budgeted for the Education Co-operation, but which is no longer used for that purpose, and to inform the Chamber about the amount of that amount and its impact for the 2019 Summer Recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u205	My last motion focuses on the citizenship mission in education and the Respect Pact. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a respectful society without forms of intolerance and intolerance such as anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, homophobia and radicalisation requires permanent maintenance and renewal;]] [[Considering that many organisations, such as the Respect Education Foundation (the Coordinator of the Week of Respect), the National Committee 4 and 5 May and MasterPeace are developing educational materials and intend to pool their offerings and align them with a Respect Pact so that schools and teachers can make use of the available educational materials on the basis of their needs;]] [[calls on the Government to support the Respect Pact in the context of the citizenship mission of education and to call for national attention to the Week of Respect, thereby achieving a bundled and permanent supply of more schools, teachers and pupils in primary, secondary and secondary vocational education and increasing impact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u206	In the list of homophobia and so on, it also says "islamophobia." Is that an anomaly? Is that a described syndrome? Is that a disease? What exactly does it mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u207	Mr Beertema is asking me a question. I'd say it's in the same series as anti-Semitism, homophobia and so on. And, yes, I think we can see that there are also people who focus in their phobia on Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u208	So you're talking about confused people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u209	No, Mr. Chairman. I have mentioned this list when it comes to observations. I think that we have a social mission together to see how we can live together a little in a pleasant way. To this end, I propose to the Minister to support an organisation with a number of very nice products, richly. I think that can be very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u210	I ask because I have never heard the term "islamophobia" of something like "Christian phobia" apparently not so long ago. Apparently, it has been given so much power of expression that it is now included in official documents of citizenship and so on. How would you describe Islamophobia yourself? Is that also critical of Islam?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u211	No, absolutely not, no more than I would describe criticism of the policy of the Jewish state as anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u212	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u213	Mr President, may I express my thanks to the rulers for their reply in the last 12 seconds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u214	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u215	Mr. Chairman. The CDA would like young people from secondary education to be able to opt for technical training in higher education as well. Then it is best to focus on the deficiency test, where a ministerial arrangement fits in. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in principle young people can only move from secondary school to higher education with a subsequent profile;]] [[noting that it is difficult for young people who have opted for a non-linked profile to eliminate their deficiencies;]] [[noting that this poses particular problems for young people who wish to opt for technical or green training;]] [[Considering that the Higher Education Act provides for the possibility under Article 725 (5) of the Ministerial Regulation to designate training courses in which students can already be enrolled and, during the propedeutic phase, to eliminate their deficiencies and that this possibility is hardly known to both pupils and vo- and ho-institutions;]] [[Calls on the Government to update this ministerial arrangement so that all technical and green training courses are covered, to inform h.o. institutions and to ensure that they take this up, and to inform schools and pupils about this possibility;]] [[Asks the government to inform the Chamber of this before the summer recess of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u216	Mr. Chairman. We think it is important that people who have chosen the course of teaching can stay in education. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some students have opted for teacher training which makes it difficult for them to find or retain a job in education;]] [[Considering that if they opt for a second teacher education, they must pay the higher institutional tuition fees;]] [[noting that due to the shortage of teachers, we would like to retain these people for the education sector;]] [[Considering that the change in the law provides for a reduction in legal tuition fees, that the halving also applies to students in small-scale and intensive education and that they receive a much higher discount than students in a regular education;]] [[Calls on the Government to amend the Law on reduced legal tuition so that all students receive the same amount and use the 2.5 million euros released for a scheme for people who opt for second teacher training and cannot claim another scheme such as the teacher's scholarship or she-influx;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of this before the summer recess of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u217	Mr. Chairman. We have found in this Chamber that students have so far not benefited sufficiently from the pre-investment and that the Minister may wish to contribute to raising the funds for the study advance. I'll get back to you on that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, where appropriate, students are affected by the failure of institutions to make the promised pre-investments;]] [[noting that the Minister is considering bringing forward the means of quality payment with a cash drawer;]] [[calls on the Government, if it were to bring forward the funds for quality benefits, to raise the funds for study vouchers and to allow those institutions which have not made the pre-investments to do so;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these study vouchers meet the needs of students as far as possible, for example by allowing the study vouchers also for wo-students who wish to use them for their masters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen, Mr Bruins, Mr Beertema, Mr Futselaar and Mr Özdil.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u218	Mr President, to reassure you, my final motion. It's about the college advance. The Minister had already indicated that it is the title of the law. I would like to do some work on that, but for the time being this motion would be a very good one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, following the abolition of the basic grant, the Minister introduced the term study advance;]] [[noting that this term is not clear, inter alia, for students, that it is a loan;]] [[Whereas students benefit from timely and complete information to enable them to make sensible choices when entering into a study loan;]] [[calls on the Government not to use the term study advance in any communication (at least on the websites of DUO and the Ministry and public statements as letters to the Chamber);]] [[calls on the Government to improve the information provision for students who (start with) borrow on the DUO website, including the inclusion of a banner "borrowing money costs money',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u219	I have a question about the motion before us. That went rather quickly, but if I am right, Mr Van der Molen says he wants students who already have a teacher's license but want to take a second course, to pay the legal tuition fee and not the high rate. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u220	No, that's not right. I think GroenLinks and CDA share that we want to mean something to this group. At the moment when we would replace the institution tuition fees with the legal tuition fees, that would require a very substantial investment. I looked for that investment, but I didn't find it. Then I thought, "I can't do anything either." But I'm not okay with that, because then we won't get any closer to the target. I think that with this motion I have found a way to offer this group a concession in the form of an amount of between €1,000 and €2,000 by getting some money in another place. So is that institutional tuition money for legal tuition exchange? No, I'm not going to be able to do that, but I think it's appropriate to keep these people in education and to signal that we want to contribute something in the cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u221	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u222	Then I wonder whether you agree with me that we could use institutions by asking them whether the institution tuition fees could be reduced for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u223	I believe that educational institutions should always be able to weigh up the amount of tuition fees they ask for. This is a trade-off that serves not only a public purpose but also, of course, the institution's own finances. I think it would be good to ask institutions to look at the level of tuition fees from that perspective too, but I also understand that institutions make other considerations. So I would like to leave that freedom with the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u224	Fine. You have 12 seconds left. Nicely done. Let me now turn to Mr Futselaar of the SP. We'll have you up for three minutes. Oh, I hear it's four now. Then we'll make it four.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u225	Yeah, good try, Mr. Chairman. The first motion concerns the deficit remaining with the Spring Note. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in addition to the efficiency reduction inherited from the previous cabinet, the Millions note also included an additional discount on the lump sum;]] [[Considering that the Millions Note further states that an additional deficit in the education budget of 114 million in 2020 should be filled in to the Spring Note up to 160 million in 2022;]] [[noting that there is little or no room for further savings in education at all levels without loss of educational quality;]] [[calls on the government to come to the Spring paper with a proposal to fill the shortage of education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u226	Then about international students and housing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas student housing, specifically housing more vulnerable international students, is a persistent and growing problem in a number of cities;]] [[Considering that, despite the above-mentioned problems, international student numbers in these cities continue to increase and that there is no reason to believe that the institutions concerned have reduced their foreign recruitment;]] [[considers that it is wrong to recruit international students without taking any responsibility for this;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a statutory housing obligation for universities and colleges of higher education in relation to foreign students, for example by providing a minimum percentage of housing guaranteed by the institutions in relation to the number of foreign students per academic year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u227	The Minister himself mentioned the proposals of the VSNU in September. She also responded to that, but what she didn't actually talk about is their proposal to shift the research budget from the second to the first money stream. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the VSNU proposed in September to shift 100 million from the second pillar to the first pillar within the research budget;]] [[Whereas research, action groups and individual researcher stories show that the workload at universities is perceived as very high and that one of the causes of this is the collection of funding;]] [[calls on the Government to present a proposal for the 2020 budget to shift the funds from the second money stream to the first to reduce university staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister has set up an advisory committee on higher education funding under the chairmanship of Mr Van Rijn;]] [[noting that the committee does include members who have or have recently had links with colleges and universities, but that this does not apply to student organisations;]] [[considers that students have a par excellence in the final opinion of the Van Rijn Committee;]] [[calls on the Government, at the request of student organisations LSVb and ISO, to establish an additional member of the Van Rijn Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-59]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u228	For the second time in this debate, I notice that Mr Futselaar is here expressing one-on-one the views of the VSNU. At first it was said about the reserves: no, they are also in real estate. Then it was: Well, that's fine, we have to repeat that here in particular; that's excellent. Now it's about the shift from the second to the first money flow. A letter from the VSNU has come with the request to do so. Mr Futselaar said that in a motion, and that is what we are going to deal with here. I don't quite understand that. Wouldn't we just have a little debate about the funding, that last point, instead of taking another advance? Shouldn't we just wait and see the Van Rijn Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u229	First of all, Mr Van Meenen seems to always accuse me of not fulfilling his prejudices. I find it very difficult to defend myself against that. The reason I'm sitting on this is very simple. The VSNU has made a number of recommendations. I've asked the Minister to respond to that, but she's ignored this beam. The whole recommendation is not mentioned in the letter in which it responds to the university plan. Yeah, then I'm gonna wonder why not. Then I think: this seems to me to be a good proposal; talk to researchers who say that the application circus is one of the major problems. The first money flow might ease that slightly. So I am not: settle that in this budget, but let us have a proposal for 2020. Then I would almost say 'your' Van Rijn committee can do its work in the meantime, although I would have preferred that we had that debate now rather than just waiting and waiting, because the funding is a big proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u230	It is not "my" Van Rijn committee, not at all. But I do think it is important that we look at the entire funding. Perhaps after the Van Rijn committees we are not talking about first and second flows of money at all. Who knows? So isn't it a little premature to move this motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u231	I'd like to put that in context. If the Van Rijn Committee's opinion means that this distinction no longer exists, as this Chamber wants, then the Minister may refrain from coming up with a proposal in this direction for the 2020 budget, but we will see that. I'm moving on. Another concern is a number of small training courses and their chances of survival. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, therefore, (very) small courses for universities and colleges of higher education are not profitable, there is no financial incentive to maintain them;]] [[noting, however, that small courses may have a major interest: because they are unique in the Netherlands, and/or have a particular scientific, economic or cultural value;]] [[Considering that in recent years a number of unique small courses have disappeared, such as Portuguese, despite the fact that Portuguese-speaking Brazil is the eighth economy in the world;]] [[noting that in the 1990s there was a separate small lettering fund which, however, included lump sum financing;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible and desirable to create a limited fund apart from the lump sum to support very small training with a unique value throughout higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u232	I would like to make it quite clear that I am not asking for more money here, but for a little bit separate for these training courses. Finally, the expected motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the Minister's statement: "Research shows that first generation students experience many adaptation problems in the first 100 days of their studies. This means that they are lagging behind in their first year. With a BSA of 50 or 60 ECTS in that first year, you take this group of students at the most vulnerable moment."]] [[having regard to the previous conclusion of the inspection that a binding study opinion on less than 40 ECTS is realistic;]] [[noting that the Minister raised expectations at the opening of the academic year;]] [[noting that colleges often give subjects in a three-point scale (i.e. 3, 6 or 9 ECTS per subject);]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a legislative proposal to set the national limit for the points standard for the binding study opinion at 42 ECTS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u233	We'll do our best, but thank God Mr. Kwint is coming. Mr. Chairman. I have heard Mr Van Meenen's argument that he would like to have a debate on this. I would like to continue with this motion, but that does not really make much sense if Mr Beertema's other motion is not also held. So I invite him to that. If that doesn't happen, I have to observe that sometimes, when you throw a rock in a pond, the tidal wave can flood you unexpectedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u234	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have heard extensive discourses today, but I must say that in some respects the answer was very staccato, especially in the area of equal opportunities. Then there is a lot left and so you get a lot of motions. It is very nice to hear that the subject of school excursions is well explored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u236	So it's not your fault that you come up with a lot of motions, it's the ones of both regiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u237	We are all victims of our circumstances, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that signals from teachers show that there is no support for the current curriculum review and the way it was designed;]] [[calls on the government, after delivery of the final results of Curriculum.nu, to carry out a major study of the support of teachers and to share the results with the Chamber at the same time as the proposals of Curriculum.nu,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u238	The Minister said that it would be accepted later, but that is just not concrete enough for me. I really want us to have an in-depth investigation at the moment that these proposals come to the Chamber, in which we can see that support, and not a letter that deals with them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parents and pupils are increasingly required to contribute to education, for example through voluntary parental contributions or shadow education;]] [[Considering that education is a public task and that more and more private contributions can lead to increasing inequality of opportunity;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan together with educational leaders, teachers, parents and pupils to reduce the scale of private contributions to education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u239	You heard the subject that I had come to the block of "point inequality of opportunity." That includes the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the shortage of teachers is most acute in schools with many disadvantaged pupils;]] [[Whereas it is precisely in these schools that smaller classes and good and competent teachers are particularly needed to ensure the quality of education;]] [[calls on the government to start smaller classes at 10% of the schools with the most disadvantaged pupils and to release the necessary resources for this purpose;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u240	Then there is the issue of equality of opportunity, namely summer schools. The subsidy scheme is in danger of ending and is in danger of entering the lump sum. We discussed for two days what happens to money that disappears into the lump sum. We therefore think it would be unwise to add such an important initiative; therefore, the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that inequality between the poor and the rich in education is increasing;]] [[noting that spring and summer schools are important for promoting equality of opportunity in education;]] [[Considering that the EUR 9 million grant for the spring and summer school pilots will be provided to schools through the performance box or lump sum from 2020 instead of through a subsidy scheme, which will no longer oblige school authorities to spend money on this;]] [[calls on the government not to add the EUR 9 million grant to the performance box or lumpsum from 2020, but to continue in its current form,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u241	To the lovely colleagues: this does not cost extra money until you think so. This is money that otherwise disappears into the lump sum and is now being used for a subsidy scheme for these fine initiatives. We are afraid that when this happens, we will not see much of these fine initiatives again. Finally, early and pre-school education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities in the Netherlands are not free to ask for their own contribution to the pre-school;]] [[Whereas the preschool system is very important for the development of children at risk of educational disadvantage and thereby promotes equality of opportunity;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the law so that municipalities are no longer obliged to ask for their own contribution to the pre-school and until that time to grant this freedom to municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u242	Again, this is not an extra edition. All you do is stop getting in the way of municipalities if they want to fund something for this vulnerable target group. Finally, I forgot to ask a question in the first place. I have 15 seconds to ask that question. We got another e-mail from a math teacher at the MBO. They have been waiting a long time for clarity about the future of their profession. Many times these teachers have been promised an answer. The letter's still not here. So I would like to ask the cabinet once again when these math teachers will be clear on the MBO, because they really deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u243	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr. Chairman. It was a nice debate again, at least until now. It is good that the Minister for Education has once again made very clear what investments are being made in higher education. I was proud to hear it all put together again. It is also extremely important that we make that clear, because there are apparently still people in this country who think that there will be cuts in higher education. Nothing could be further from the truth! In fact, I was just reading a piece of a student in Utrecht who thought I would have said that the universities should first build up their reserves before money could be invested. I'm going to tell the student this way: that's not true either. That money's just coming up. Those investments are coming up. But let's stop with the picture of cuts in higher education and let's just start looking very critically at what universities are spending their money on. I have said much more than my comment on the reserves. I have also mentioned, for example, the way in which staff are assembled at universities. I would ask the Minister to pay particular attention to this. I think there is too little going on with the people who provide education and research and too much on staff, management, marketing and pr. A lot of money goes into competition, while at this time every euro should go into education and research. I would ask the Minister to discuss this with the universities. I would also appreciate clear definitions of things such as 'general reserve', but I have seen the Minister's ferocity and I therefore assume that she will hold that discussion firmly. And I'm happy about that. Mr. Chairman. I have also drawn attention to a very different group, the visually impaired, dyslectic and motorized people who, for this reason, cannot use normal data carriers as books. I'd like to give more space to the organization that takes care of them, and that's Dedicon. Before the vote, I shall table an amendment with an appreciation, of course, which I hope, at least on the part of the cabinet. But I warn colleagues... I'm sorry, but I'm gonna remind my colleagues that that's what's coming. Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said about the performance box and it is therefore sufficient to read this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the mid-term review of the governance agreement shows that it is not appropriate to establish whether targets are being met;]] [[Whereas the objectives of challenging education, education improvements, professional schools and ongoing development are best achieved with good teachers for the class;]] [[noting that there are currently too large differences between salary and career prospects in different education sectors;]] [[Whereas the governance agreement expires in 2020 and the performance box resources are structurally transferred to the OCW budget;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how to justify some of the funds from the performance box p.o. can be used by 2020 to further improve the salary position and career paths of primary school teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u245	A brief question, yes. Is this it? I read yesterday: no pay gap to explain; they deserve extra appreciation; the coalition parties demand extra money. And now it is possible to examine whether, from 2020 onwards, the money that could be spent, perhaps partly or partly to be sought in a tripartite context, could possibly be passed on to teachers responsibly. If I were a teacher who just opened the NOS site yesterday, I'd feel a little bought, even though I don't think it's an unsympathetic idea at all. Does Mr. Van Meenen understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u246	No, Mr. Chairman. I understand what Mr Kwint has read, but I also know what we have done. That's just sharing this motion with the press. And the press writes about it. This is the conclusion. But this is the motion, because there has never been another motion. And this is what we're gonna do. Of course, I also want it to come out that this can be done in a responsible way. So as far as I'm concerned, it's gonna happen, but we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u247	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u248	So it is the fault of the press that all of them collectively mistakenly had the idea that there would be extra money for teachers here in one go?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u249	No, no. I think that even in the press it is well represented. It also said several times that there will still have to be proof that it is possible. I hope and I would like it to be possible and I think we should do the best we can to see if it is possible. This cabinet has already done a great deal in this area and we want to do more. We want to take an extra step, at least D66 and the CDA. One of the possibilities is in the performance box resources, so we want that investigated now. We want the Minister to look into that. I do not see what Mr Kwint would have against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u250	I am not at all concerned with the content of the proposal. I am concerned about the fact that I read that the coalition parties are demanding extra money, but that there is now some almost esoteric research motion on the way to 2020, in which we may be able to map out what is going to happen. The discrepancy between those two things, that's what annoys me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u251	Well, you shouldn't do that to yourself. The motion is crystal clear and Mr Kwint's summary of it is a very bad summary. The motion simply asks for research into the possibility of using part of the performance box funds responsibly for salary increases and salary prospects in primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u252	Let us anticipate that investigation, because I have just had that short debate with Mr Rog on this motion. I am glad that it is now there, so that we can actually talk about it. A large part of these resources, which I have also shared with our colleague, are in salaries, in teachers, in teaching assistants and in class assistants. I would like to know from Mr Van Meenen how many redundancies in education he considers acceptable in order to increase the salary of those colleagues who are not being dismissed. Because no matter how you turn it or turn it around, this is a work pressure increase and that while we, D66 too, are just trying to reduce the workload in education as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u253	The greatest workload is due to the fact that there are not enough teachers in the classroom. That is what this motion is trying to do, hopefully with the support of the VVD. That's one. Two, there's a lot of extra money going into education. The situation is therefore not unchanged. Extra money is put into the workload by this cabinet, also by the VVD. That's one. Two, we see that in primary education, structuralally, almost 100 million remain on the shelf, and 283 million, just as GroenLinks told us, in appropriate education. All possibilities to use people well. So it's not like we have a fixed amount and we're taking a piece off it now. No, the amount of money is increasing and the Minister is also talking to the field about the efficiency of spending and the adequacy, by the way. We'll all see. But I think it is justified to investigate this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u254	A long answer, while I asked about the possible dismissal of teachers, teachers, teachers, class assistants and teaching assistants. Of these resources, just people have been appointed. So that's 1,500 and 3,000 FTE in the Netherlands and I just think it's dangerous to say: then we need to investigate whether we can fire those people. We shouldn't want that. I do not think you should want that either, but you are going that way. So I'd like to know from you: if you're already willing to fire people in education somewhere, which increases the workload, how much is that willingness? Because you seem to think it is more important that the salary of those colleagues who are not fired should be slightly higher, at the expense of those who then no longer have a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u255	It was a long answer I gave, but it seems that Mr Heerema did not listen to it properly. 'Cause as far as I'm concerned, no people are getting fired at all. I don't see why, because there's a lot of extra money coming into education. That's one. Two, there's a lot of money lying around right now. And three, part of that money won't be used effectively. If we all get that together, I think there's a lot of room in such a performance box agreement. It's a very vague arrangement, we can see that from all sides. Money goes in all directions, except for the goals of the agreement itself. An agreement between the Minister and the PO Council, which does not impose any coercion on the participating schools in the PO Council: it is all supervague. The money comes in the wrong place and we want it in the best place for quality education and that is with the teachers, because we cannot have enough of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u256	If I were a teacher and I would have read on the website of the NOS that coalition parties D66 and CDA still want extra money for the elementary school teacher, I would feel good with this motion. It calls for an investigation, but it doesn't say we're going to get extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u257	That is also stated in the article.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u258	Mrs Westerveld has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u259	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u260	The article promises everything that this motion does not deliver. I also hear Mr Van Meenen say here that not enough is happening and that he wants more to happen. Now we're gonna do that investigation. Suppose it doesn't show that extra money can be made available to teachers, will D66 continue to look with us at other possibilities to ensure that teachers can get a salary increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u261	Yes. I also hope that GroenLinks will try to get away from the negative picture. It was not the intention at all to say to teachers now: it will be increased tomorrow. It also says in the article that this is about 2020. We need to deal with this carefully, if only to prevent scenarios from coming up as Mr Heerema has just described. We have to do it carefully, but with the intention of increasing salaries. GroenLinks has also argued for this on several occasions along other roads. We are doing this now from these two coalition parties because we also consider this important. That's what I've always said. It's kind of hard to look from our point of view for possibilities. Here agreements are released and new opportunities are created. We want to take a good look at that, of course, with the goal that it will eventually happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u262	Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u263	I hear Mr Van Meenen of D66 saying that it is the fault of the media. They wrote it down wrong. I will accept that, but I would also like to point out that the opposition has made a lot of proposals over the past year. For example, we have done this together with my colleagues from the SP and the PvdA. We have almost never received the support of the coalition and therefore not of D66. I would ask Mr Van Meenen to look at our proposals a little more often and to go along with us in ideas on how to make teachers better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u264	I don't want anything but teachers getting better. I've wanted that my whole life, and I've been fighting for it here. I would like to support all of the opposition's proposals, but they must be covered by the coalition as well. The opposition has so far failed to do so. We are now trying from the coalition with a cover that is definitely coming. We're gonna go in and see what's possible here. I really hope that you will support that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u265	I was also shocked yesterday when I read in the newspaper that D66 and the CDA want to make teachers happy with money that is already in schools. They therefore want to record that money even more ear tags, so even more. As a result, there is less freedom of use. Now I find out that the opposition parties SP, GroenLinks and PvdA mentioned in the article as parties that could possibly give support to a majority did not know about it either. They're as surprised as I am. Now the motion comes out of the top hat and it turns out to be a dead sparrow. Is Mr Van Meenen not terribly afraid with me that teachers will no longer feel taken seriously by this action? So it turns out there's no extra money. It's money that's already in school. In such an article teachers are made happy with something that... The emperor has no clothes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u266	I think the teachers have read the article a lot better than some MPs. The teachers are very aware that there isn't just any extra money. It is very explicit in all the articles where this money should come from. I look forward to your support for making that happen as well. It's only a dead sparrow if you don't cooperate. If you do cooperate, there is a real possibility that these salaries will be increased even further. So I'm hoping for your cooperation. It's only a dead sparrow when this room says we're not doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u267	I saw at a glance that this was about a pot of money already in education. I do not know whether I want to vote in favour of a motion which does not give extra money to schools and which merely restricts the use of funds. I really need to think about that very deeply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u268	In any case, I know that you do not want to vote in favour of motions which do want to give extra money to education. That is why we are now looking at money that is already in education and we want to spend it better. These agreements in this sector agreement are super-vague. There are all kinds of goals that are not being met in any way. That money will be released in 2020. We think it is worth giving it a much better destination, given the quality of education. And that quality is guaranteed by teachers. But then we have to have those teachers, because otherwise you can talk about work pressure and talk about investment what you want, but then you won't be okay. Those teachers should just stand in front of that class. I look forward to your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u269	There's no motion for extra money, there's a motion that's a cigar out of its own box. I don't know if schools and teachers will be happy about this. I don't know if this actually just blows up in your face because it turns out to be nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u270	The box of cigars is now a box. We've added a lot of cigars. And we're gonna see if that teacher is a little less cigar, and a little more cigar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u271	Sparrows and cigars; it spins around here on this dark Thursday afternoon. I'm still a little confused about everything I hear here. First of all, what are we going to do with those employees whom I believe Mr Heerema rightly referred to? People are just getting paid off that money right now. So what are we gonna do with these people and then what's the solution? Some of them are educational supporters, but some of them are also professional teachers. In my opinion, these are all functions which, on the contrary, relieve and support the work of that Po-Teacher. And we're talking about a horizon that's a little bit further than we are now. We were informed today that there are schools in Twente now that are considering putting parents in front of the classroom. Well, I don't think that's the point. So what are we going to do now to make sure that there are more teachers coming for the class?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u272	We had the debate on what we can do now last week. That's relative here. But no matter how big the problems are now, we must also think about structural solutions. One of the structural solutions is that we look very closely at where the money is going in education. I realize very well that the money is being spent now, but I have just said that there is also a lot of extra money. And there's still a lot of money: structuralally almost 100 million a year, and 283 million in the partnerships. So we need to see where that money comes into its own in the best way, including the money from the performance box. So as far as I'm concerned, no one's getting fired at all, but we're going to reward teachers better. And for that, I have always found an ally in you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u273	Yes. It's nice to hear this optimism, but I'm still looking at it a little more critically. And I don't think I'm alone in that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u274	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u275	There are people who get paid for that. They do very important work. And it can't be that one's bread is the other's death. I also very much agree with what Mrs Westerveld said. We have made a number of concrete proposals, also covered once again. So I invite you once again to take a critical look at that and, above all, to support us in this ambition to make the profession more attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u276	I always do, but I hope it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u277	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u278	Mr President, something quite different is the Einstein Telescope. I've already said enough about it. The Einstein Telescope is a very important technological development. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Einstein Telescope allows fundamental research into gravitational waves and the origin of the universe;]] [[Whereas various domestic and foreign parties are working towards a prayer to establish the Einstein Telescope in the border area of South Limburg and we want to keep the possibility open without making a choice;]] [[Whereas, according to the impact study, the realisation of an Einstein Telescope Fieldlab ("ET pathfinder') is a good scientific and economic investment;]] [[Whereas an Einstein Telescope Fieldlab contributes to the development of technology and competences necessary to achieve a good national balance on the participation and location of the Einstein Telescope;]] [[calls on the Government to make a contribution to the implementation of the Einstein Telescope Fieldlab under the scientific budget;]] [[calls on the government to direct preparations with neighbouring countries that contribute to the strengthening of prayer and to a proper balance of Dutch interests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u279	Mr. Chairman. I will conclude by thanking the ministers, both the Queen of Accessibility and the Minister who was kind enough to mention my granddaughter. That was the Naomi from his contribution, who went to primary school in December. I hope, and that is at least my ambition, that she and all those other children, not only those mentioned here today, will have a wonderful and beautiful time at their school, with the best teachers and masters. I'm gonna keep doing everything I can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u280	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs van den Hul from the Labour Party. She's got four minutes left on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u281	And no grandchildren! Mr. Chairman. It's time for you to go to school. We are seeing growing inequality of opportunity, growing segregation and, we were just talking about it, a serious shortage of teachers. That is why, together with Mrs Westerveld, we are making a number of concrete proposals: proposals to reduce the pay gap, proposals for extra hands in the classroom. That dichotomy in our education starts early. Every child deserves a fair start and therefore this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that each child deserves the best opportunity to develop;]] [[noting that many children are now starting an unbridgeable gap in primary school;]] [[Considers that the provision of pre-schools free of charge for each child contributes to equality of opportunity and the prevention of segregation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what is needed to offer a 16-hour pre-school per week free of charge for all children from 2.5 years of age, taking into account the socio-economic impact, and to inform the Court of Justice of this in the Spring paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u282	In the context of transparency, the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas working conditions in education have a direct impact on the growing shortage of teachers;]] [[noting that the social partners are committed to setting up these working conditions in such a way as to make work in education more attractive;]] [[noting that the lack of understanding of the financial area that employers have to offer for trade unions leads to an unequal negotiating position;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the relevant space letters are now accessible to all social partners at the collective bargaining table,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van den Hul, Westerveld and Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u283	Mr. Chairman. We are very happy, and undoubtedly a lot of schools with us, with the promise that technical education in the USA can also count on the support of the Minister. But also teachers in the vso deserve support. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that teachers in secondary special education primarily provide secondary education and therefore it would be fairer if they were covered by the relevant collective agreement;]] [[Considering the need for EUR 20 million to enable teachers to be valued according to the collective agreement for secondary education;]] [[calls on the government to look for cover for this next year, for example in the case of under-utilisation, without affecting the budget for the teacher grant, and to return to the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u284	And finally, on the theme of emancipation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that of all convicted persons for violence behind the front door, 83% are men, compared with 7% are women;]] [[Whereas municipalities and their district teams are often the first point of contact when alerting and combating violence behind the front door, but the knowledge available there is often limited to aftercare;]] [[believes that the emancipation of women does not go without the emancipation of men;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a tool for municipal authorities to take a preventive approach aimed at young men to prevent sexual and other violence against women,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u285	And I would like to thank both directors for their reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u286	Then we are going to listen to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u287	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two directors for their answers. I was particularly impressed by their both passionate introductions. It is clear that there are two ministers here with a great heart for our beautiful education sector. In his written reply, Minister Slob addressed family class in a broad sense. It is good to see that this subject is now well on the radar. I'd like to look forward to the letter on parental involvement. I would like to thank Minister Van Engelshoven for her commitment to talk to the Secretary of State for Finance about fiscal stimulation of hybrid teaching. I hope for a good outcome and I will address this issue myself next week when dealing with the 2019 Tax Plan and the economic affairs budget. I'll file the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the accountability burden is very high for small school boards in particular;]] [[noting that the policy's commitment is to achieve slimmer, smarter and more targeted accountability;]] [[Whereas exemptions currently exist for small businesses in the regulatory framework, for example with regard to the establishment of a works council;]] [[Considering that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is developing an SME test to assess the impact of legislation and regulations on small and medium-sized enterprises, and that this could be an interesting concept to apply in the education sector;]] [[calls on the government to explore how more tailor-made regulation can be applied to small schools in terms of accountability and participation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are increasing signs of increased stress, performance pressure and psychological complaints among students and that student hospital doctors indicate that access to assistance is under pressure due to the increase in this problem;]] [[Whereas the above-mentioned problems affect both MBO, HBO and WO students;]] [[Whereas the Bruins/Asante motion, which calls on the government to come up with an action plan, has not yet been adequately followed up so that good and easily accessible psychological assistance is available at each institution;]] [[calls on the Government to identify as soon as possible the extent to which low-threshold psychiatric care is available in all MBO, HBO and WO institutions and, on the basis of this, to develop an action plan to share best practice and to implement a nationwide coverage of low-threshold psychiatric care at MBO, HBO and WO institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Rog and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-74]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Özdil, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Futselaar, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Raak.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u288	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the answers. I have two motions for resolutions and, finally, I would like to say a few words about Shell's children's marketing festival. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the market for plant products is growing rapidly;]] [[noting that the cabinet is aiming for a protein transition;]] [[noting that in chef's training courses there is scope for accelerating the protein transition desired by the cabinet;]] [[noting that the SBB will monitor all MBO courses for sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to use the SBB screening to identify how chef training can further contribute to accelerating the protein transition and to send it to the Chamber within a reasonable time, or to do so in parts, at the discretion of the Minister if no end time of the inventory can be provided and it is not expected to become available within a reasonable period of time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u289	I didn't know we were in a protein transition with each other, but at least that's what I learned today. To understand this motion correctly: is the proposal that the boys and girls who are currently doing or intend to do a chef's training should be banned from The Hague to cook with fish and meat?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u290	No, that's explicitly not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u291	You are very much in favour of further sustainability and so on. Can you explain what exactly is intended then? That you can also cook without fish and meat, they will already know at those chefs trainings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u292	Yes, thank you for this interruption, because it gives me the opportunity to explain once again that the covenant and the agreements, for example with Dutch Cuisine, to firmly deploy the protein transition can be implemented even better. If you want to become a vegetarian cook nowadays, it is actually very difficult to take a mbo-cooks course, because the space is too limited for that. This motion concerns the inventory that is going on: see how the Dutch Cuisine initiatives are going and whether they can be speeded up. Thank you for the space for an explanation. Mr President, my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large and growing group of people in our society consumes vegetarian;]] [[noting that the market for plant products is growing rapidly;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that it is possible to complete mbo-cooks training on the roc without having to prepare meat or fish,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u293	A brief comment on the debate I had with the Minister on Generation Discover by Shell, the children's marketing festival. This was about the role of the inspection in educational activities on the festival grounds. The Minister said that we cannot send the inspection there; that can only be done if an activity would be related to education. Schools are indeed completely free to visit the festival grounds themselves. That wasn't the point. The point was that there was a private teacher inspiration afternoon. People's representatives were not welcome there. We would very much like to determine the role of the inspection, but we also understand that it is not possible to do so on a motion afternoon or on a budget afternoon. So we shall come back to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u294	Very good. Thank you. Then one minute for Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one minute, and I have carefully adjusted the number of motions. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Court of Justice on the conclusion of tests on monkeys, provided that this does not have a direct impact on the research strictly necessary for the control of life-threatening diseases and infectious diseases which threaten public health;]] [[noting that the Rathenau Institute, on behalf of the government, has therefore carried out a survey of monkey experiments "From monkey to better";]] [[noting that according to this survey research for the development of vaccines and medicinal products for (life-threatening) diseases and infectious diseases is classified under "Applied translational research";]] [[noting that, according to this exploration, "basic scientific research" is carried out for insight into scientific questions;]] [[noting that there are no legal requirements requiring this type of examination;]] [[noting that the Rathenau Institute calls banning or reducing this type of research to zero a political choice;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward a proposal to end fundamental research on monkeys, which has no direct relevance to the fight against life-threatening diseases and infectious diseases that threaten public health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Tielen and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the directors first for answering the questions. I would, of course, also like to thank their support staff, who have now been able to prepare the written reply with a little more ease and with a little less pressure than otherwise. Good. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna give the teacher's register a break. Soon we will return to that in life and well-being. We are co-signatory of the motion by Mr Bruins, a colleague of the Christian Union, on reducing the accountability burden for small schools. Then there is one motion left for the moment that I would like to table. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas parents in public education should not be forced to allow their children to take part in religious actions contrary to their beliefs;]] [[noting that parents only have the possibility to apply for exemption for their children from participating in certain educational activities, but that there is no right to exemption for conscientious objection in public education;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the legislation in such a way as to exempt in public education, at the request of parents, from participation in religious acts contrary to their beliefs, such as kneeling in a mosque,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Rudmer Heerema, Mr Bruins and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u297	That was my contribution, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u298	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Azarkan. And it will be replaced by Mr Kuzu. A little devil from a box. He was working in his yard!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u299	Mr President, I apologize. If the Chamber allows me, I will replace my colleague, Mr Azarkan, who had replaced me again during this budget debate. The smaller groups among us know how that goes. Mr. Chairman. Minister Van Engelshoven believes that the universities have taken it up quickly. I quote her: "This shows that if you really want and really do your best, you can name more women and break open the old boys network. We still have a long way to go before we can talk about a proportionate distribution, but the commitment of universities over the past year gives confidence." When it comes to women, that is the case. My colleague Azarkan has made a point about diversity in the academic world. As you know DENK, we would like to give the Minister a hand. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2017 the government rightly pursued policies to encourage the appointment of 100 additional female professors and that this policy has been successful;]] [[noting that not only female professors but also professors with a non-Western migration background are underrepresented;]] [[calls on the Government to use the successful policy for the appointment of additional female professors to encourage more professors with a non-Western migration background,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u300	Mr. Chairman. In the background, of course, I have followed this debate somewhat. I have heard Mr Heerema talk about movement education. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the KNVB and the sports world are alarming because young people are on average more than ten hours a day and are not moving sufficiently, which is not good for their motor, social and cognitive development;]] [[noting that the KNVB makes concrete proposals:]] [[at least two hours of physical education by a professional or qualified teacher;]] [[monitor motor development of all children;]] [[attention to moving in breaks and other hours, for example through inviting outdoor spaces, school squares and classrooms;]] [[a post-school mobility offer in the school environment;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the KNVB's proposals and the sporting world can be taken into account in its policy (as long as this is not the case at present),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u301	Mr. Chairman. The next motion is about under-advisation, an important point for DENK. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[under-advisation of pupils with a migrant background is a well-known and common phenomenon;]] [[when it comes to pupils with a migrant background, there is sometimes concern that the advice of this group is lower than the level of competence would have expected and falls short of advice from native pupils with a comparable level of performance;]] [[have indicated that there is good intentions in advice but that prejudice can sometimes lead to an undesirable outcome;]] [[Whereas:]] [[the transition to secondary education is an important link in school careers and the advice of the primary school plays an important role in this process;]] [[good intentions mixed with prejudices about pupils with a migrant background can play a role in under-advisation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how schools can be supported to combat under-advisation and prejudice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u302	Mr. Chairman. Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to change the interest rate rate for student loans in higher education and to base it on the ten-year rate instead of the five-year rate;]] [[noting that there is no support for this change among students and young people, including the CDA youth movement;]] [[noting that the proceeds of around 200 million are used to improve public finances;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the change in the interest rate rate for loans in higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u303	You'll all get a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u304	You will all get a cup of coffee from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u305	Of course, so are the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u306	The ministers, too. You're in a generous mood. One more question from Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u307	Thanks for the coffee; it is much needed with everyone, I think. Mr Kuzu has a sympathetic motion on the increase in student loans. Only, GroenLinks, along with almost the entire opposition, including DENK, has tabled a motion to withdraw that increase in interest rates. Would it be an idea to maybe park your motion? 'Cause I think we're saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u308	It's a possibility. I'll take it to my colleague Azarkan. Thank you, Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u309	A question from Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u310	A question on the motion on the under-advisation of immigrant young people. Now we've got to come up with something else to balance it a little bit. This is not so much a question, but I am very sorry that this whole Chamber, including your group, voted in favour of destroying that wonderful Cito test, which was objective, and that ethnic talent was very clearly advised. What happened, I think it's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u311	I have also followed the interrupting debate between Mr Bertema and my colleague Mr Azarkan on this subject. Of course, we supported the law at the time with the idea that Cito is the basis. If the teacher's advice is higher, it can never be lower than Cito. So which of the two is higher is, as far as we're concerned, the measure, and then there's an entire world to win. There is a whole world to win where it is about strengthening the position of parents so that they can better achieve the rights of their children. Because you also know that when parents are more empowered and talk to the teachers, the advice is automatically or more often adjusted upwards than if it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u312	Ooh. Not by itself!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u313	Often.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u314	And a lot of it stays down, and that's a damn shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u315	Yeah, yeah, but that's why I said this is often the case when parents are more empowering. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u316	Thank you. This was the second term of the Chamber. Thank you all very much. The two ministers are going to reply immediately and review the motions. Again, it's 50. You can also just say "all judgment room," then we'll be ready in two minutes and we'll be outside. But let's go. The Minister has the floor. Of course, it is not just about the motions but also about the amendments. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u317	Thank you, Mr President. You can see I'm standing here with thicker folders now than I was this morning. I'm gonna try to go through that with speed. So it will be somewhat staccato. Let me begin with the assessment of the amendments. First of all, Amendment No. 10 by Mrs Van den Hul on vocational training and apprenticeships. That amendment will be judged by Chamber. It is a broad wish expressed by the Chamber in the General Political Reviews. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Ozdil's amendment to item No. 21, about undoing the little cut on the lumpsum. It will not surprise him that I reject this amendment because we do not agree with its coverage. The same is true of the amendment on item No. 22. That won't surprise him either. On this point, the cabinet has made other choices. Moreover, his coverage also runs counter to the government's budgetary rules. We are dealing with a separation between revenue and expenditure, and that is precisely what he is confusing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u318	I will allow one question per amendment or motion. Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u319	I would like to ask the Minister to explain why she does not agree with our coverage. Our coverage is an increase in the Innovation Box from 7% to 10%. It's all in the same ministry. I think we can do it. Maybe the minister should...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u320	Sorry, Chairman, I just choked on a sip of water. No, your amendment raises the budget of OCW by EUR 19 million under a simultaneous increase in the Innovation Box. The cabinet uses a separation between revenue and expenditure. What you are actually doing is stepping up spending, and this can only be accompanied by an intensification on the expenditure side. Those are the budgetary rules. You know it too, and you know that there is no proper cover. That applies to both amendments. Mr. Chairman. Those were the amendments. Now I'm going to start a whole series of motions. Members will understand that Mr Slob and I have divided them according to portfolio. Then I'll start with the motion in part No. 34 by Mr Beertema, on the hotline for political indoctrination, as he calls it. Education is always human work and happy. People always bring something of their own. Teachers should also be able to feel safe in performing their work. And a national hotline where parents or students can click on an unwanted expression does not really contribute to that. Honestly, such a hotline reminds me a bit of what a senator in my opinion McCarthy was doing in the U.S. when it came to clicking on communists. There is no need for such a hotline, because if one is concerned about expressions, one can first contact the teacher himself, and otherwise simply the school management or participation. So I really don't see anything in this hotline, and advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u321	Mr Beertema, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u322	One question. Do you at least recognise that there is a problem? I just gave a few examples, and I referred to the article I wrote for ThePostOnline. It contains a whole zipper of examples of professors with the most insane political-activist actions. Do you at least recognise that there is a problem, and that the Shws... shall I say.... are extremely dominant? Isn't that at least disturbing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u323	I said teachers, teachers and professors are people, and people have views. I hope that most of them will vote as well, and therefore have a political conviction. It's gonna sound like it sometimes. Is that a problem? No, that doesn't have to be a problem at all, because then everyone will see that that's just very human. Should that slip through, one can always file a complaint. And the institution is really the right place to have that discussion. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 35 by Mr Bertema, too, on English. This spring, we held a wide-ranging debate on internationalisation in higher education. I also told you this morning that I am now working on a legislative amendment to ensure that quality is demonstrated where English has added value. Only then can English be introduced. That's what the committee's gonna advise on. For several months they have been able to advise on the language choice of new training in relation to the labour market. Moreover, as you know, we will check the accreditation from February 2019 on whether the language choice is justified and has added value. In the worst case case, the accreditation may then be withdrawn. By the way, I notice the following. I spoke in the debate about the need to adapt the law to the concept of added value. That concept has now been taken over by Mr Beertema. Well, that'll do me good. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 36 on the BSA. I would ask you, however, to hold this motion. I told him we'd start the conversation. I'm gonna do some more research. Let's get that first, so you can see what the standards and the good advice will mean. I cannot imagine that the authors of this motion want to maintain a situation in which promising students are wrong, then start the same training at another institution and simply lose a year of their studies. That's a shame for the student, and that's a waste of public resources. That is also one of the reasons why I want to have this debate and why I need standards. My request is, therefore, that this motion be retained so that we can really have the substance of this debate and really ensure that undesirable situations are eliminated. My request is therefore to hold the motion; otherwise I will dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u324	So it's not advisable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u325	Then there is the Tielen motion in part No. 39, on the transparency of costs per student type. I fully understand Mrs Tielen's request for transparency, but I do see some substantive problems with her motion. There is no formal classification of students by alpha, beta and gamma. Students are classified according to so-called CROHO components, such as economics and health care. So we don't know Mrs Tielen's layout. Moreover, the second and third money flows are not student dependent. This also applies to the fixed base in the first money stream. It is therefore not possible to share these resources with students. But I do understand her request for transparency, so I am prepared to give the "judgment chamber" motion, provided that I can interpret her as follows. I am going to ask the Van Rijn Committee to include this request in the first part of its mission, namely the development of costs in the various fields of training and research. The consultative commission can then consider to what extent it can answer Mrs Tielen's questions in the opinion report. By the way, I would like to point out that this advisory report is due to come next spring. I think that's the deadline you want. Once again, with this interpretation, I leave the motion to the Court's judgment, but there are problematic aspects to assigning to a student of the second and third money flows, because these money flows are not distributed per student, but per study, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u326	One question, Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u327	It is actually a confirmation: I agree with the Minister's interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u328	Thank you very much, then the motion for a resolution is in the Chamber's hands. Then the motion to part No. 40, on the grant scheme practical learning. I note, moreover, that the proposers wish to fix them until 2023, which goes beyond this period of office. You understand very well that I can't make a promise for another cabinet. What did I say in the debate? I agree with the importance of this. My intention is to create a multi-annual subsidy scheme. The series in the budget are fixed. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that you do not ask me to keep it out of the overall budget balance, I cannot; I really cannot do that; I can accept the motion, but I can only do so with that understanding. I cannot imagine that the authors of this motion would ask me to disregard the way in which we operate in the cabinet when it comes to full budgetary considerations. Perhaps the proposers can come back to that. If you do not agree with this, then I must advise against the motion, because then I have no choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u329	I need to think about this. I have listened carefully to what the Minister has said and I must take a look at what I think of that. So I'm gonna leave it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u330	Then the motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u331	Yeah, then she's been dissuaded. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 41 on the educational prize for university lecturers. Mrs Tielen is quite right, of course, that it would be nice if there were prizes to really reward the quality of teaching of teachers in higher education. For example, we have the Comenius programme, but that is not really a price; there are 70 wonderful scholarships to be earned. And, of course, we have the Professor of the Year's Prize of the ISO. But I understand Mrs Tielen's wish very well; I think she is very sympathetic. She now restricts him to universities, but I hope it will be allowed to go back to the whole of higher education, including for HBO teachers. I give the motion judgment Chamber because I would like to give effect to such a prize.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u332	Of course it's okay for both of us, but I hope the Minister will take it into account in her discussions that the academic career is so underexposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u333	Yeah, we will. Then I come to the motion on part No. 43 by Mr Özdil, on the Titulature in the MBO. In view of the debate that has taken place, I think Mr Özdil is counting on me to discourage that motion. I would also like to correct one point from this morning's debate. The SER report was not about this measure of titulature, but very specific about mastery, about the reintroduction of mastery. You're going to reward very excellent craftsmanship. The SBB had sympathy for this. The ESC has said that it is really up to the sector itself to take initiatives in this regard. That's what the ESC said about that. It is not about titles per subject, but it is in that report about whether we can give excellent craftsmanship the title "master" again. It really was a slightly different discussion. So I'm deceiving the motion. Mr Özdil's motion on the estimates is not a good idea. Any excesses on the estimates shall not lead to intervention in the education budget; they shall not be covered. We are exploring with the Ministry of Finance how to achieve more stability in the budget, as promised to the Chamber. We will inform you as soon as possible. When it comes to adequacy, for example, we have the Van Rijn Committee in higher education. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u334	One of the Minister's arguments to discourage the motion is cover. I have my motion right in front of me and the motion calls on the government to examine the possibilities of avoiding increases in the number of participants in education compared with the estimates. It's about exploring the possibilities. The second request is to implement the recommendation of the Education Council. What coverage is the Minister talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u335	If you ask me to increase the estimates, which is a setback, no longer to cope with a task, please ask me to add extra money. Otherwise, I wouldn't know what you're asking. We are considering whether we should not do this in the same year and whether we can achieve more stability. I cannot carry out the motion as it has been formulated here. Then the motion to part No. 45, on the planned legislative amendment of the interest rate measure. I advise against this motion. It is an arrangement that is part of the coalition agreement and we are going to implement it. We exchanged enough about this this morning. So the motion has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 49 is about the Rainbow Voting Box agreement and requests a report before 1 January. It may be a small point, but in the last AO Emancipation we had, we also exchanged it. Then I agreed with the Chamber that this report will come in the spring. I like a little consistency, but if you insist that it should come sooner, I want to do my utmost to do so. But on the understanding that the appointment I made with you earlier and which was then agreed for the entire Chamber was about spring. We're gonna do our best to do that sooner, but I can't quite promise. Christmas is coming very soon. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 53, on deficiency. In my view, Mr Van der Molen and I agree that we want a solution for that group of students who have actually chosen the wrong profile and yet would like to go to an education that does not fit in. However, Mr Van der Molen is going a little too fast in the motion. I would like to discuss this with the institutions to see if we can ensure that those deficiency tests can be offered to everyone across the board so that we can tackle this problem. So I'm gonna ask him to hold the motion. I can tell you in the spring of 2019 what solution came out of those talks. If I do not come out with the institutions, there will still have to be a settlement. But I want to be able to have the conversation about it first, because we haven't been able to do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u336	I'm not against a conversation. I'd like to explain that motion for a resolution. The Minister may make a ministerial arrangement in which she may include this exception. It is only when this ministerial arrangement has been adapted that the institutions can act accordingly. On the one hand, I agree with a discussion, but if this motion is adopted, I would like you to be prepared to amend that ministerial arrangement. Because only if you do so can the institutions act accordingly. So that's the request. And that there has to be a conversation ahead of it, I'm totally fine with that. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u337	I'd like to ask you to hold the motion for a moment. I promise I'll come to you in early 2019 with a letter. We are going to look at how to deal with this problem and what is the most desirable way to tackle it. And of course, if necessary, we are going to amend the ministerial arrangement. We agree on the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u338	Then I want to be sporty, too. If the Minister does not wait too long in spring 2019, I am prepared to hold the motion. But I think we've understood each other very well now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u339	I understand you can do it in early spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u340	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u341	At the request of Mr Van der Molen, I propose his motion (35000-VIII, No. 53). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u342	Then I come to the motion on part No. 54, on people who opt for second teacher training. I would also like to ask you to hold the motion for a resolution. I'd like to take a closer look at how big this group is. Part of the group of teachers wishing to obtain a second competence can benefit from the scheme for side-intromers. A part can also go to the teacher's fair. There's probably a very small group that falls between shore and ship and we have to arrange something for. So you have a point. To arrange that, you want to find cover in changing the group that is eligible for the halving of the legal tuition fee. That's quite an intervention, which brings with it a lot of work. I would therefore ask you to hold the motion. Then we will send a letter indicating the size of this group, whether it really needs to be adapted to that or whether it can be otherwise arranged. I therefore request that the motion be held. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u343	We have, of course, requested the figures from the Ministry in preparation for this proposal. The group of teachers outside all regulations is about 1,200 men. We discussed this before, when we talked about the Law reduced legal tuition. I'd like to go through with it now. So I do not intend to hold the motion, because this is an opportunity to really settle things now. We know the budget, we know it's about 1,200 people out of everything, and we think it's important to keep them in education. So I would like to put the motion to the vote, because it is really time to settle something for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u344	So the motion is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u345	Yeah, well, then the advice will continue to be dissuaded. Then the motion-Van der Molen c.s. in piece No. 55, about the cash drawer and the study vouchers. We still have to see that the cash drawer is coming, because there must be room for that within the national budget and there must be a proposal that is supported. But if so, I would like to see whether we can bring those vouchers forward, as I said in the debate. But it is quite complicated for DUO to bring out those vouchers. It makes it even more complicated to make the whole budget fit. The motion also talks about bets for the master, but that doesn't exactly fit the initial goal of the vouchers, because they were meant for a lifetime of development and not for an initial study. So this is how I'm really gonna have to dissuade this motion. I told you in the debate, and I will stick with that, and I will do so if we are going to have to look at the cash drawer. Then I'd like to take another look at the study vouchers, but not this way. So the motion is dissuaded. Then there is the Van der Molen/Futselaar motion on part No. 56 on the term "advance study." I agree with Mr Van der Molen and Mr Futselaar that good information is of course very important. That's why we consistently use words like "borrowing," "borrowing options" and "refunding conditions" on the DUO site. There should be no confusion about that. We use the term 'advance study' for the system, because that is what it is called. At the time, the Chamber chose to refer to the system of legislation as such. Well, I guess I'll stick to that. That is also the citation of the law, as I said this morning. You also ask to place the warning on the DUO website "Warning, money members costs money." We know that it will not have an immediate effect on borrowing behaviour. The Minister of Finance has already reported this to the Chamber. He has also reported that an alternative is now being sought. I'll wait for that investigation. So the motion is dissuaded in this form. Then I come to the Futselaar motion in part No. 57, in which the government is invited to come to the Spring Note with a proposal to fill the deficit, so that education remains out of the question. I advise against this motion. I cannot anticipate the decision of the cabinet on the spring note. That's what you're really gonna see in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u346	Mr Futselaar's motion does indeed raise the question of how far the Minister is already in the process of filling in the mandate that has not yet been proposed. Does the Minister have a timeline for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u347	I have a very clear agreement with the Minister of Finance. The moment in the year in which we, as a cabinet, establish the expenditure framework is in the spring note. We always do that. Then the cabinet also makes an integral assessment. Then I come to the Futselaar motion in part No. 58 on the obligation to provide housing for foreign students. I would advise against this motion, because on 4 October we signed the National Action Plan for Student Housing with the Platform Student Housing, in which OCW is also represented. In this we make agreements with local authorities, house-food companies, educational institutions and student organisations about this production. The Minister of State has promised you to come forward with a state of production before the summer. We have now chosen these actions and I think that this is more fruitful than setting a minimum legal percentage, because then we will really do something. So the motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u348	Mr Futselaar, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u349	That action plan is nice, because it was an initiative from me and Mr Özdil to begin with. But it's mostly monitoring and the situation is so serious we haven't done anything about the funding for a year now to limit the number of foreign students, which seems to be a good way of getting control of things in any case. Doesn't the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u350	In the action plan we will do more than monitor. It is really about making agreements with the institutions and with the municipalities to ensure that local production is really up to date. But I would like to pay tribute to your initiative at the time. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 59, on shifting from the second to the first money stream. I'm not going to recommend this motion. Shifting will not lead to lower application pressure, as applicants will then compete with each other for a lower budget. So that's not a solution either. Furthermore, this is really part of the mission to the Van Rijn Committee. Let's wait and see those advices first. The motion has been dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 60 on the composition of the Van Rijn Committee by Mr Futselaar. I'm also going to discourage this motion. We have deliberately composed this committee of experts and not stakeholders. I understand very well that students are big stakeholders here, and I am also assuming that I am quite sure that the Van Rijk Committee will also speak with them. But let them be part of the committee and now add them to the committee does not make sense. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u351	Of course, the Minister has the right to dissuade, but I do object to the claim that student organisations have no expertise in this area. I think their arguments in recent years are generally better than those of OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u352	I didn't say students weren't experts either. You can also see that there are no settings in it. We did this because we deliberately chose not to include stakeholders directly in the committee. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 61, on the Fund for the Support of Small Training. I reject this motion because we have the fine institution of the sector plan for the sectors. For example, there is a sector plan for humanities. And the sectors can jointly choose what they really think is important and what they want to put together money for. So we have this opportunity, and I do not need to wait for an initiative for a possible fund. We have this possibility through the sectoral plans, and that is where this problem can really be addressed. So I see no need for a separate fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u353	Just to clarify, it's certainly not my goal to do this just for humanities. I do it specifically for small courses insofar as they exist throughout higher education and are unique. In addition, the Minister may have an opinion, but I'm maintaining the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u354	It wasn't meant to be... I mentioned the example of the humanities, but we have sector plans in many areas. Since you mentioned Portuguese so clearly, I would point out that they can also go to the sector plan. Then the motion to part No. 62. Let me be consistent this evening and ask for this motion to be held until we have had the debate and until I can come up with the results of the further examination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u355	I will stick to what I said earlier: if the other motion on the binding study opinion is retained before the votes, I will do the same with this motion. But if that is not the case, I shall put her to the vote, because in addition to something bad, there must be something good to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u356	Then you know that my advice is "dissuade." In fact, I would like to start with that debate with you, because then we can come to a weighted decision together on what is the right balance between normalizing and advising. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 69 by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Van der Molen, on the Einstein Telescope. They rightly say that this impact study has shown that building that Fieldlab in Limburg would be good for science and the region, regardless of whether the entire Einstein Telescope will be there soon. In this respect it is really a no-regret step. I am also talking about this next week, as I told you, with my Flemish colleague and I will inform you in more detail in the letter you will receive before Christmas. I understand that you already want to go one step further and also call on me to see if I can find money for that. I am also positive about this development and I would like to leave it to the Chamber to decide. Then the motion to part No. 73 by Mrs Van den Hul, on men's empathy. I am happy to give this motion of censure to the Chamber, because I agree with Mrs van den Hul that if we really want to work on a safe family, we should fly it along that side too. I am talking to the cities about this, and it is also in line with my policy to see if we can develop a joint approach to this. So this motion gets judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 75 by Mr Bruins and others, on psychic aid to students. We discussed this at length this morning. The motion is actually an addition to the investigation that we are launching. Mr Bruins urges me to take that next step now. I'd like to do that, so that's why you're judging Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 76 by Mr Van Raan, on chef's training. I think it goes too far to make the training alone responsible for this. In conjunction between education and business, innovation is being looked at very closely. What I do not think we should want is for me to inform the Chamber of all changes to the qualification files. You should not call that on yourself, and it seems to me to be wrong. The system really contains sufficient safeguards to ensure that the sector is in line with innovation. This also requires constant dialogue with industry. We've organized that really well now, so I'm going to advise against this motion. There will indeed be a check-up, but if I have to report it to you per qualification file, that seems to me to be a bad thing, because you will be getting 588 such qualifications files on your desk. You shouldn't want that. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u357	I think we've been talking a little bit. There are about 30 chef's courses, rock's in chef's training. There's an inventory going on. We've just had judgment room for a motion that starts with a whole inventory. Here we ask for a piece of that information. I have listened carefully to you and to your objections, in the vein of: I cannot say when it is ready, because there are 600, and you should not want to. I listened very carefully and amended the motion as well, in the vein of: then divide it up, when that information becomes available. All I care about is chef's training. We just want to know what's going on. To say "you shouldn't want to, because you want to know all about those 588 files..." That was just not the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u358	Yes, but you also ask me to take stock of how chef training can further contribute to accelerating the protein transition. That's really what training is about. So yes, what we are already doing is checking the qualification files for durability. That's established, but I don't see any reason... You are actually asking me to keep track of what these chefs trainings are doing to speed up the protein transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u359	The motion has been dissuaded, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u360	That seems to me to be something we just shouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u361	Mr. Van Raan, I'll see you at the interrupting microphone, but I'll do one question per motion. A short point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I note that the Minister is simply not in the mood. That is sad to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u363	No, it's not that I don't feel like it. The question is whether it is a sensible operation to do so. There's just very good innovation there. Mr. Chairman. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 77. I'm going to dissuade them, because otherwise the Chamber will really steer what should or should not be in such a qualification file. Those qualification files are also extensive. If there is much need for vegetarian cooking, it is possible, for example, to develop choices. I think that is very good, but we should also look very closely at the labour market perspective in MBO training. How do we ensure that young people are trained for that labour market as well as possible? This should not mean that you are really going to train young people for a very narrow niche, a niche that you and I hope will get bigger and bigger. But I also have a responsibility to ensure that young people have a good labour market perspective. That's why I'm not in favour of doing this in this way, so I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u364	That's obvious. If you have to do animal testing in medicine, you can get an exemption. So you should read what I am proposing here a little bit, that is the intention. I read fear and panic in the eyes of the members of the CDA. We can still eat meat and fish, can't we? I saw blind panic, Mr. Chairman. This motion merely asks: can a chef's education not have to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u365	Yes, but you're asking me to vouch for that. A good rock looks very closely at the individual student. Suppose there really is a student who says: I prefer not to cook with meat or fish, I prefer not to prepare pork and I am allergic to shellfish and I cannot deal with it. Of course, the training will adapt a sleeve to that. But you are now asking me to guarantee this issue very specifically. I really think this is a responsibility that should be taken into account in the discussion between the programme and the student. Moreover, we are also responsible for ensuring that students can work as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u366	Good. The motion in part No. 78.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u367	That motion belongs to Mr Wassenberg. I also advise against this one. We have just said that we have agreed on a course of action with the Chamber. We've agreed on the order in which we're going to do things. Nor is it as black and white as Mr Wassenberg states in his motion. I therefore advise against this motion. Then I have the motion in part number. Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It's about diversity among professors. I'm gonna go find Mr. Kuzu. He's not in the room. Ah, I hear he's changing. He's putting on a jacket. Maybe he could have borrowed it from Mr. Kwint today. I share Mr Kuzu's wish to achieve greater diversity among professors. But the Westerdijk impulse belonged to my predecessor. That was a $5 million boost for the appointment of 100 additional female professors. But that was 5 million. I said that I was happy with those 100 extra female professors, but I also said to institutions that it should not be the case that you only do so if 5 million are against them. I'd be happy to talk to them about promoting diversity. Moreover, I believe that we also have in the sector agreement that the promotion of diversity in universities and colleges of higher education should also be possible if there is no additional money. In that sense, I am committed to this. But I'm deceiving the motion. In the motion in part No. 83 the Government is invited to reconsider the change in the interest rate rate. I would advise against this motion, because we have already discussed it in detail. In my third folder is the answer to one question. Mrs Tielen wanted a timeline around the bottlenecks of the side-instromers. In spring 2019 I will come to the Chamber with the solutions. Mr President, I have finished my part of the assessments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Kwint has another question. Make it quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u369	That poor, poor MBO teacher math. Ton, his name. I think he's listening. Oh, look, Minister Slob does that. I didn't expect that, since this is about the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u370	Yes, but mathematics comes in a complete letter, because there is a connection between what is happening in the vo and what is happening in the mbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u371	Then Ton and I will wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u372	Thank you. I call Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u373	Mr. Chairman. I would like to tell Ton and Mr Kwint that it has indeed taken a while. It's about that intermediate solution before we have a structural solution. That is not the ideal solution either, but we have indicated that something is going to happen. I hope the letter will be there in the course of next week. And then I hope that we can talk about it quickly, so that there is also clarity for everyone who is working on math. That is why mbo is also important, in the context of following foundational education. I had another question. It was about the space letter, but a motion has now been tabled. I shall come back to that motion, because I indicated that I would come back to that. I am going to do the amendments first, at a fast pace, because we can hear the horses coming. First of all, the amendment on item No. 12, by Mr Kwint. That amendment will not be on the educational list, because it concerns taxes. The answer won't surprise you, I guess. It will undoubtedly be answered there that it is in breach of budgetary rules, the separation between revenue and expenditure and that we therefore advise against it. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 14, about movement education, I also advise against. Of course, it's always fun to get more money on your budget, because it's supposed to be transferred from another budget to education. But the coverage chosen here means that there will be a reduction in the budget for the low-income advantage. This is a concession for employers who take on low-income workers. So that does not seem to us to be a very successful cover. Then we can also have a very wide-ranging discussion about the amount of money mentioned here, but let us do so at the moment when your colleague's own-initiative proposal, Van Nispen, who is so good at running, is before the Chamber. Then I will be there as an advisor on behalf of the cabinet and give my advice to the Chamber. But I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u374	One question, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u375	By far the fastest MP, I dare say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u376	Yeah, it's horrible!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u377	I don't understand the objection very well. This is a subsidy that goes to large companies that hire people, who then refuse to pay properly and then come to the government to pay the rest of that payment. Isn't it a lot smarter to invest that money on the move with young people? Of course it's not the total amount. We'll talk about that later. It is right to make a first start with the lecturers in movement education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u378	Of course, I have had to manage not to receive money from another budget, so let the discussion about this amount and that item in the budget of my colleagues from SZW be conducted there. But this is the opinion we are giving on it, and with Mr van Nispen's speed we will discuss his own initiative proposal later. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. Sixteen, I'm not sure. I have indicated before, in another discussion, and I will return to a motion later, that we have just agreed on the performance box. Once the evaluation has been carried out, it is of course always possible to look again at what goes on in the lumpsum. But we are not going to get money out of it in the meantime, so I would advise against this amendment. Mr. Chairman. In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 17 I should like to put the amendment to item No 17 on the agenda. 18, take 18, take 18, take 18, take 18, take These are amendments which, regardless of whether you want to do so in this way, also run counter to the budgetary rules. I do not recommend these amendments. Mr Bishop has tabled an amendment to item No. 23. I should also advise against this amendment. First of all, it is also a considerable amount of money. Coverage is sought in the not already legally mandatory part, but that does not mean that there is not simply money in it administratively and politically that is already linked to certain objectives. That is also the case here; think of talented people, think of vve, think of equal opportunities. In short, we can't just get that kind of money out of it. In addition, the Services Centre is already getting a very nice amount. It's just fantastic what we're doing there. It's an initiative that once came from the Chamber. They want more. For 2019, the Service Centre does not expect volume growth in the number of class groups, so there is no need to add a lot of extra money to that. What they do want is to hire people for extra staffing tasks, employment conditions, HR, relationship management and that sort of thing. We are not going to finance that separately for school boards, and we are not going to do that for them. I shall come back to another amendment later, because there was still a very small amount of money reserved for them in the non-compulsory legal part. But I cannot add that to this amendment, so I advise against this amendment. The other amendment is the amendment tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Rog. Indeed, there was still a small amount of money in the non-compulsory legal part which was also reserved for this purpose, for this subject. If we are allowed to use this money for this purpose, it is not a very large sum in the total amount of money, I can give this amendment 'Court of Justice'. Mr. Chairman. I have another amendment from Mr Rog. Of course, it is very sympathetic in terms of the subject matter. About everyone in the coalition is underneath: Van Meenen, Bruins and Heerema. You know that before 2019 and also a piece of 2018 I have been given room by the Minister of Finance to use money that should actually be returned to the Ministry of Finance for side-inflow and the regional approach. In fact, you say that you want to regulate this in the budget for the coming years. I have indicated that this is in line with what I have agreed with my fellow Member, Mr O'Brien, that we will follow this up in the coming year. We've arranged it now and we'll act on things if there's still a lot of demand. That is why I reject this amendment, although we are working very actively on its objectives in 2019. I'm very happy about that, too, because it was very necessary. That was another extra thing we could do in dealing with the shortage of teachers. Mr President, then there are the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u379	One second. The amendment in part No. 19 was also: dissuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u380	Yeah, and the last one's, too, dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u381	Have we had 23 from Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u382	Yes. Bishop: Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u383	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u384	Then there's the motions. I will try to get through quickly, starting with Mr Beertema's motion on banning school visits to mosques. You won't be surprised that I betrayed it. That is a choice that must be made in the schools. Mr Beertema also wanted a ban from above on mobile phones in primary and secondary education and secondary vocational education. Although I can feel with him when it comes to the obstructive effect that phones can have, I really think this is a choice that needs to be made in the schools. We're not gonna fix that from upstairs. Much sympathy for what you are proposing here, but I would advise against this motion anyway. Maybe the schools are listening. I know that there are already some who have introduced this as a school policy: nice lockers; put them in and take them out at the end of the day or in the break. Then the motion to part No. 37. I'd advise against it. It is also contrary to the Constitution. Then the motion to part No. 46 by Mrs Westerveld, Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Kwint. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's about the partnerships. I think I explained it in the debate. The evaluation's coming up soon. Then we look back at these years: what have we done? Then, if we want to, and if we need to, we can also make new choices. But I'm waiting for the evaluation. We will then be able to conduct the debate in the broadest sense and on the basis of well-founded studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u385	One question, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is precisely in the light of what the Minister said in the debate that I formulated the motion in such a way that it now states that the evaluation will look specifically at the consequences of removing the legal obligation of cooperation. So we are not asking for an advance, we are asking for it to be properly examined in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u387	Of course, the evaluation also looks at how the partnerships have worked in this form. It would be weird if that wasn't part of this evaluation, because this is one of the choices that have been made. So that evaluation is just happening. We wait for them and at that moment we can make final choices. As far as I am concerned, this motion is simply superfluous and, for that reason, to be discouraged. It's just part of it already.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u388	You're not under that motion, Mr. Van Meenen. Can you say it in one sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u389	I would like to support that, because I do not think that this element is automatically included. It is a rather specific element: to what extent have the partnerships suffered from this legal obligation and to what extent has this prevented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u390	Okay. A voter's advice, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u391	Yes, I would like to hear a positive vote advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u392	That's "invited." Mr Kwint, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u393	Mainly content. I don't think this goes through the evaluation in any way. All we're asking him to do with that evaluation is just... It's kind of complicated. If you're gonna remove the legal obligation to form a partnership, you're gonna have a lot of trouble, as the Minister rightly said. That is why we say: send along what, for example, would be the consequences and the alternatives you might think of. Without that there's any... Nobody says we're gonna do that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u394	In an evaluation, you assess what you've ever agreed to. At the time we had appropriate education for this, which was adopted by the Chamber, with some adjustments. That's what they're looking at. Collaborations are indeed part of this. So that's what we're looking at. But you put it right under the clamp of 'there must be other forms', so you are going to look ahead as well. No, we judge what happens and then it's just in there. If you say that I need to understand the motion in this way, then that is quite apart from what there is to say about whether or not to delete and alternatives to ask whether or not to look at how the partnerships work, then I say yes, that is what is happening. If that's the way I understand the motion, then I'm gonna say judge Chamber. But if you really want to do all kinds of things about it in the evaluation, then you will also infect the evaluation again, because based on the outcome of the evaluation you have to look at how you want to do it in the future. You shouldn't let that run away from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u395	Then I'd like to invite the first signatory of the motion to explain the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u396	In my view, it is quite clear that we would like the evaluation to examine the consequences of removing the legal obligation. In fact, we are asking for a rather specific approach in the evaluation to be given to questions such as "how do partnerships work?', "Can we do without it?" And "are there other ways to work together?" That is indeed a specific question. I would also like to thank Mr Van Meenen and Mr Kwint, who, in my view, also support this point. This is a rather specific question, which I think is very interesting when we look at the future of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u397	But an evaluation means you're looking at how it works now. As far as that part of the motion is concerned, I am indeed saying that this is already happening. If you wish to vote again on a motion that this should be done, it is up to you, then I say, judge Chamber. You would like to underline that in a manner of speaking. But you do not put a point now; you put a comma and you say: but let us look at the consequences of removing the legal obligation and alternative forms. I don't think you should use the evaluation for that. In it, you have to look at what the current practice is. Based on an assessment of the current practice, you will then see what new possibilities there are and come up with proposals. Then this is all gonna be on the table. So it will be considered, but we need to keep that out of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u398	And so the verdict is now...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u399	If that last part is included, I'd advise against the motion. As far as I am concerned, when it comes to the first, it is Chamber and underlining/supporting policy. A motion has been tabled on the reserves. That's the Westerveld motion c.s. in piece No. 47. I think I've made that clear. I would ask Mrs Westerveld and the other signatories to hold this motion until the Financial State of Education is there. That's in three, four weeks, I think. That's late November, early December. I think that is the time to start the debate with each other. I don't think it's good to start making statements ahead of the Financial State of Education. That's not so neat to the education inspector either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u400	That time's under review, so we're gonna hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u401	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (35000-VIII, No. 47). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u402	The Westerveld motion c.s. in piece No. 48 I advise because we have just made hand-outs, also for the vo, to look at the work pressure. This has been done on the basis of an initiative from the Chamber, including the VVD, which I believe was the first to come to last year's budget debate. I also know that Mr Van Meenen has made his name very clear. That hand-me-down has just been completed. It's in the schools now. I would say that, on the basis of this hand-out, the debates and discussions should also take place there. I hope that goes as well as the p.o. It happened, because that's where it worked very well. We are still getting very positive reactions to that. So I advise against this motion, but the subject is important in the schools and we also provide for that. Then the motion to part No. 50 by Mr Rog. That motion I can give judgment Chamber. There are more than 300 powers in the Vo. That is also being looked at at the moment. That's quite a discussion, though, because the field of education is not unisono when it comes to what people think of it. But of course we can take this with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u403	I would like to make a final assessment of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u404	"Judge Room," I said, but I'd like to repeat it if you'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u405	I like to hear it. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u406	I think it's very easy for the Minister to dismiss the motion. The problem is that we know that, as in primary education, there is also a very high workload in secondary education. Only, we don't know exactly what caused the workload. We do know that a lot of teachers are working late. This motion was made precisely to ask if we could do a more specific investigation into where this workload came from, because only then can we take targeted measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u407	We do a very nice hand delivery, like that in the p.o. It has happened to look very closely at their work in the schools themselves and indeed to discuss what the workload is, so that it comes, or things can be removed, or things done too much, or things can be arranged differently, etc. That's gotta happen there. I can assure you that this is not a positive opinion on this motion for a resolution which I shall ask the VO Council if they wish to take stock of the results of such discussions with their members and what that shows. That way we can also get information from the vo. I will discuss this in my administrative consultation with them and will then inform you about the results. I'm not gonna do another big investigation on that one. At some point we also have to make choices in everything we do. We're doing an incredible lot of things. Of course, it accumulates at a very fast pace. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Rog/Van Meenen motion on part No. 51, about the LOF. We can have a whole discussion about this, but then we can talk for hours about what will or will not fall free. There are assumptions here that I do not think will yield much. In addition, we will of course dismantle the OC. We're working on that. We don't quite know how all this is going to work, so how much money that's going to cost. Even if that were not so, we will continue to form a professional group. There will also be Mr Rinnooy Kan's report. This will result in activities again. I'm gonna need money for that. It is also part of the coalition agreement. If I have to turn that money over now to spend it on another good cause, I get that wish, and we have lost it, and at least I cannot carry out that part of the coalition agreement with money. Then it's gonna be really hard, I guess. If you hold the motion until Mr Rinnooy's report is there, if we also have a little more insight into what is to be done, that is my opinion. If you want to put the motion to the vote, I really have to dissuade it because it is simply not possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u408	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u409	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (35000-VIII, No. 51). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u410	The motion in part No. Mr Rog's 52th report deals with the Respect Pact. If I may explain'support' as 'calling attention to', as Mr Rog says in the future, I shall give the motion judgment Chamber. If Mr Rog expects me to support educational material financially and the like, I must advise her not to. That is not our policy. We have no money for that either, because there is no money on this motion. We like the initiative. Wherever we can support and promote that, we will, of course, do so. We will therefore behave as a worthy ambassador of this fine initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u411	I'm not asking for educational material to be developed, but I'm asking for support from the Respect Pact. It would be nice if that were to happen everywhere, also from the other departments: VWS and SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u412	Let me get this straight: this is a motion that you didn't make any money with. I am prepared to put forward the initiative and bring it to the attention of the House. We do contribute financially to the conference. We are making this financial contribution, but we have managed to regulate it properly in our budget. This conference is called With All Respect and is of Stichting School & Security. The sectoral councils are also involved. We are financially involved in this, but there is no extra money reserved to do things yet. We do that, also financially, and otherwise you can expect our warm support if this motion on this subject is adopted. Have we understood each other so well? Yeah? Then I can give the motion judgment chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint's motion for a resolution 63 is about Curriculum.nu. We wholeheartedly agree that support for teachers is important. That is also the reason why, in this approach, which was started in the previous cabinet period, it also happens from the bottom up, to put it in these words. There will always be a lot of discussion about it. If the proposals come to me and we have to go further, I will, of course, also pay attention to the basis for them. Then we'll try to get everyone involved. In the policy response I will give, in spring 2019, I will address that issue, but I will not do another specific support research. You know how many teachers work; there are 230,000. I really want to do this in a different way, because the basis is important. I do not recommend the motion, but we are going to work on the basis, even more so, that is happening at the moment. I would like to thank those Members of Parliament who have spoken very warmly in the first place about what is happening here, because I am also occasionally watching and I am impressed by the work that is being done. Anyway, it's just a half-fabricate. It's about what's actually going to be transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u413	The minister says building support is already going on, and I get that. Soon that route will be over and there will be ready-made products. Then the teachers will know what to judge. Of course, I'm not asking the Minister to visit schoolyards and interrogate 120,000 teachers, but there are plenty of people in the Ministry who can set up an intelligent, representative sample among teachers, which gives you a better idea of the basis than when you open up Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u414	I thought Mr Bruins indicated that work should be done as Dijsselbloem has indicated. That was mentioned last year, under my predecessor, in a VAO about this. The next step is indeed to pay attention to the basis of support, and that is what I am going to do. This is also wider than teachers. They are of course incredibly important, but there is also further education and there are also students. I will come back to that and tell you how we do it. You also had an interesting interrupting debate with Mr Rog or Mr Van Meenen, I don't know who it was anymore about the fact that the Chamber itself can take initiatives to assess what lies ahead and to what extent that is being carried out. You're damn right everyone's gonna start working for it all of a sudden. The Kwint/Westerveld motion in part No. Sixty-four, I'm not sure. I think we have had an incredibly good general discussion about shadow education. On the initiative of the Chamber, I announced that I would carry out a follow-up study, not only in vo, but also in p.o., in order to be able to trace even more accurately the motives of parents for hiring and paying for shadow education. I also said that I find that undesirable if those are tasks that are just part of the school. My commitment is to push that back in a manner of speaking. That's policy now. I think that the results of this study should make it more clear to us whether we should make additional efforts to this end, and precisely what this is about. That's my bet. I do not recommend the motion in this form, but I think that you should be able to do very well with the commitment I have made, because in the end that is the same thing. The Kwint/Van den Hul motion in part No. 65 I also advise, because there is no cover. I did say that there are all kinds of money flows that enable schools to implement this. That is specific money intended for schools dealing with disadvantaged pupils. The Kwint/Van den Hul motion in part No. 66 I also advise, with the same motivation as I had before in performance box-like motions, one of which will come later, that an evaluation is taking place and that at that moment we decide what should or should not be in the lumpsum. It is secured in this way for 2019. There was even a little underexhaustment, so not all funds were used. In the first term, there has been talk of austerity, but that is not true. There haven't been enough applications. As far as I am concerned, this subject has already been discussed by you for the moment that this evaluation is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u415	Yes, then we're going to evaluate a performance box that doesn't have these resources in it, because they are covered by a separate subsidy scheme. If there is a separate subsidy scheme now, how can we say something about whether or not these summer schools should be in the performance box by 2020? We discussed the risk of lumpsum and performance box for two days. Often we do not know what happens to the money when it is distributed through those roads. In this way we know for sure that those summer and spring schools are being preserved. I agree with the Minister that much more could be done about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u416	In all the actions included in the sectoral agreement to prevent the sitting from being heard, and those are also resources used for these schools. So that's also money from the sector agreement. But it's settled for 2019. So you can just sit on top of it, I would say, for the moment that we are talking about this again for the calendar year 2020. Then we also have the results of the use in 2019. Who knows, that's a bit more than in 2018. Then we will have the debate again, but I cannot anticipate budgets that are not yet there, and certainly not in this way. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 67. That's what we've been discussing. I have also referred to the written answers. As far as I am concerned, they are sufficient. That's why I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog, on the sectoral agreement and the salary and career prospects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u417	First of all, Mr Kwint, on the motion for a resolution on item No. 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u418	I do not understand why the answer to that question in writing was enough, because that was not an answer to my question. The question was: can we not just get free of charge, it does not cost us anything; it simply removes the legal objections in order to ensure that children do not leave preschool unnecessarily because child care harmonisation has had an unintentional side effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u419	We have also indicated in the written answers that part of what is happening there is in any case what we can trace as a result of previous choices. I have indicated to you what requirements are attached to the use of resources. If this is about the resources I have been given, they are so nice that a municipality that says 'this is the target group, here are the risks' that can offer freely. You know that there is a request from the parents on the other means. I have also indicated that that is the policy. So we're not just gonna change that now, but I'm willing to talk to the cities. I've already had the first conversation, and I will continue these conversations this month. I advise against this motion, but the subject is not simply off the table. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 68 by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog on performance box resources. I would like to add a very small addition to what I just said about the resources for the summer schools. That is the sector agreement. That is not in the performance box, but it is part of the sectoral agreement. This is specifically about performance box resources. I have already indicated that the evaluation planned for 2020 will have to provide us with clarity about the results achieved in the end. I'm more positive about what's happened so far. And then we're even talking about a year ago's evaluation. We are already a year further than Mr Van Meenen was. Well, who knows, he'll be a little more positive in 2020 when he sees the results. I have already given a profit warning which also applies to the lump sum: 85% of the money in it goes to staff. In the case of the performance box resources, that percentage is about the same. Then you talk about over 3,000 FTEs. If it is also part-time, there are even more. Of course, you do not want these people to be fired in order to give those who are left behind a higher salary. So I advise against this motion. But the evaluation's just gonna be there. It's just a deal. Then you'll probably be at the front. And then I already know what one of your goals is, whether or not this motion is adopted; that is separate from that. By then, we'll see if it actually has substance. Mr. Chairman. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 70. I made her a promise. I said that if we continue to talk about the subject of vve and the like, I will give you a more precise estimate of the amount; we had now focused on the plans that were there, and this is higher. You are now taking a step further, with a rather wide-ranging investigation. I'm not gonna do that, so in that sense, I'm gonna dissuade the motion. But if we get reports and such, I will give you a more precise justification of the costs. I can promise you that, but I'm not going to recommend the motion. Then the motion to part No. 71, the paycheck, the space letter. I had already indicated that I would come back to that. I will state, more precisely than in the written reply, what is going on. You have already read in the written answers that there are decentralisation agreements. In doing so, the Cabinet agreed that the area should be communicated only to employers. That's one. What is not in the answers, but what I am telling you here is that the Minister of the Interior is responsible from the cabinet for sending this letter. That letter is not only for education, but also for width, because it is about the same space. So the moment you announce that, space is equal, bam! (b) a description of the measures to be taken by the Member State concerned in order to ensure We've tried to get access to that letter before. I also understand that it's a bit of a mystery, but it's wage negotiations: it's about space and you have to talk to each other. So it might be a bit of a part of that. There's even been a WOB request once, and that's been rejected. That also indicates how sharp this is. I reject this motion, and I strongly reject it. I'll tell you what. If you would like to discuss this, please invite my colleague. In any case, I will make available to you the arguments that, when this was done in 2016, were used to reject that WOB request relating to that space letter. I will also send you the passage from the decentralisation agreement on primary education, so that you can also see how this has been agreed in the sector. I also referred to legal possibilities and opportunities. I also mentioned the ILO. I will also send you passages from those ILO conventions that make it clear that at the time you are going to do this, that can then be explained as violating the agreements made internationally on these subjects. So it's kind of a big issue, and we can't just take that off with a motion, I guess. So I'm deceiving the motion. You can also arrest her, but there will have to be a conversation. Well, you should invite my colleague to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u420	I would suggest that we indeed take this motion. We'd be more than happy to have that conversation with you and your colleague from the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u421	At the request of Mrs van den Hul, I propose her motion (35000-VIII, No. 71). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u422	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 72, about the vso. I also made a commitment on this subject, and yet there will be another motion. That is a bit of a subject at the moment. I stand by my commitment that I will explain to you in detail what all the pros and cons are when it comes to whether or not to switch from the vso, which belongs to the PO-cao, to the vo-cao. The field is also not undividedly unambiguous in this respect. But I'm not looking for money right now. I've been incredibly looking for money to deal with the teacher shortage. Now you will say that this can help a little, but that is simply not the case. So I advise the motion, but I will not withdraw that commitment out of grumpy that there is still a motion. I'm just gonna leave it there. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 74 by Mr Bruins, Mr Rog and Mr Bishop on the specific consideration of the small school boards. We have already made it clear to you that we are also monitoring the small school boards in the responsibility they are responsible for. It is also intended to be smarter and slimmer, so they will also benefit from it. If you would like to emphasise once again that it is important that we also monitor small schools with regard to the possible increase in administrative burdens, then I will leave the assessment of this motion to the Chamber, but know that we are also paying attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u423	The request is not just about reducing the burden of accountability, but also about participation. Is that even possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u424	I indicated that at least we are trying to keep the administrative burden low. We see that as a point of interest. We shall come back specifically to participation and what it means. I am not in full agreement with that. This is simply subject to certain requirements and rights. These rights can be used by teachers, parents and pupils in small schools. I can see Mr Bruins nodding. It is not intended that he should come up with legally established rights with regard to participation. Let me say this to reassure Mr Van Meenen. I had assumed that, but it is a good thing that you confirm that in this way. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu, who is still undressed, because I do not see him yet, together with Mr Azarkan, has the motion in part No. 81 on the KNVB and moving. There is indeed a proposal from the KNVB. There will be a separate policy response, so I would advise against this motion. The moment the policy response is there, they can give the response they want to give. We already know a little bit about their input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u425	According to my calculations, you're the motion in part no. 79 forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u426	The motion in part No. 79? It's not in my pile. Oh, wait, here's her. That is Mr Bishop's motion. It has fallen under Mr Kuzu's, excuse me. Mr Bishop also looks much better dressed than Mr Kuzu today, so he should be given priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u427	Look, Mr Kuzu can put that in his pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u428	I understand the point made by Mr Bishop in the motion on item No. 79. We first ended up in a slightly different discussion, which I did not think was desirable. Because if you say at one point "you don't have to do excursions," then the whole thing is loose, so to speak; schools can't work with that either. But this is a more fundamental point from the point of view of public education. I'm willing to see what's needed if that's necessary. Can I explain the motion like this? Because I need a few more words, I don't think I can use them right now, so I think I need to give you a little more detail on what is just regulation at the moment and what parents are entitled to on this subject. More has already been done than people often know, but I would like to unsubscribe. Then you can judge if that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u429	I understand the exercise that the Minister wants to do, but in practice parents sometimes run into this situation. At the same time, it may already be laid down in all kinds of European treaties or even in UN conventions, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but that is not enough. It's gonna take a lot more than that. We must understand each other: it must be enshrined in Dutch laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u430	I ask Mr Bishop for some space. We'll come back and talk about it again, but I'm asking for room to explain a little more precisely what's already possible and what's not possible. Then you have a new moment to consider whether it should actually lead to regulatory change or whether it is sufficient. I'm not getting that judgment right now. We will do so together as soon as we have made that clear to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u431	If that is the procedural approach, I have no problem with that, but the final objective must be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u432	So you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u433	No, no, the motion now has "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u434	If she is accepted, I will deal with it in this way. Mr. Chairman. I've already dealt with the motion on the KNVB. Then I have one motion from Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan on the under-advisation. That motion, in part No. 82, I advise because she is superfluous because there is already an investigation in progress into situations in Drenthe and Groningen. It is also included in the evaluation of the final test. So we're already working on this. In fact, Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan can be very happy with it, because before they tabled the motion, we had already moved. I'll advise against this motion, but I'll send the results to the Chamber. I thank the Chamber for the exchanges we have had over a fantastic area, education for children in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u435	Thank you very much. This was the budget OCW. We're here, huh, poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo. It's been a long delivery, but the egg's been laid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-7.u436	On Tuesday we shall be voting on the motions and the amendments. No, of course we will vote on the amendments in December. Thank you to both directors for their presence. So far. I'll suspend for a few minutes. Then we're finally gonna keep the VAO Horses.
