ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin with Mr Kerstens' question on behalf of the PvdA to the Secretary of State for Defence about the report that commandos have been exposed to toxic substances on a range of fire. Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. That's where we're back in Defense Question Time. A lot goes wrong at the Department of Defense. Not at the hands of the men and women of our armed forces, but often at their expense. Of our military, who work in the Netherlands and abroad, are vigilant, putting their lives at risk for your safety and for my safety. And who get too little appreciation and respect for that. On the contrary. Buy your own clothes at the Perry Sport, work with carcinogenic paint for years without being told, wait too long for a new combat suit, call "pang-pang" during exercises because there are not enough bullets, are sent out with unsafe material and are now sick by toxic fumes during shooting exercises. Where the leadership knew it was unsafe and unhealthy, but kept it under the hat. "Yeah, sorry, a little communication error," that's what the Department of Defense calls it. A little communication error, damn it, at the time when the ink from a destructive security report at DOD wasn't even dry yet. The list is endless and the size is full. You'll find out when you talk to the D.O.D. people. And that's what you saw last week, when workers from the public sector went out on the streets here in The Hague, and in addition to teachers, police officers and workers in the care for the first time also soldiers walked along with them. For the first time, and that says something. No matter how serious, I'm no longer just talking about another incident in a long line. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State when she shows men and women in the field and in the barracks, from high to low, that all fine words are turned into deeds. And that they will also experience the respect and appreciation they deserve. Going to feel, not in beautiful words, not in notes, not in plans, not in promises and not in two years, not next year, but now, concretely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u3	I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. A very general question from Mr Kerstens, who is actually about how to rebuild our defense. Because I think we can see that the last 25 years have been very much reduced within the Defense Department. Those were also political choices, of all of us in this house, democratically legitimized. That doesn't mean you can't just build something up all of a sudden. You're gonna have to start with that from scratch again. There's been 1.5 billion more. Of that you can deal with part of the neglected house, but not everything at the same time. That is what is happening now: part of that house is being dealt with. Is that too slow in some areas? Absolutely. Is there much more to be done? Yes. Have we noticed with each other, also by the Van der Veer report following the OVV reports to both Kidal and Ossendrecht, that it is not in order when it comes to security within the Defense Department? Yes. What was the essence of that? That the plan-do-check-act cycle within the Defense Department wasn't in order. I think that this case, which you have also named as the occasion of this oral Question Time on the shooting range, was also a typical example of this. A commander within the Defense Department, in this case the commander of the KCT, may request a report from the CEAD if he is concerned about the environment and the environment. What happens then? He did, because he had concerns because he had reports of his commandos. That investigation has been carried out. It then emerged that measures had to be taken. These measures have also been taken, for example, in terms of the method of shooting exercises, the method of training and the manner in which instructors are to act. Is that then also correctly communicated in the organisation? No. This is also a typical example, I think, of what Van der Veer has found and what needs to be improved. That's why we've handled a number of things, like a Director of Security and an Inspector General Security. I've also asked the Inspector-General of Security to investigate the CEAG reports, i.e. from the Defense Department's own internal department, which advises the commanders, because they're asking for such a report, to see how we can do that plan-do-check-act cycle Defencewide. This is very much aimed at a unit and a commander. But how can you draw this more broadly, so that we also ensure that the lessons learned from these kinds of reports are also taken wider within the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u5	I have just indicated that I am not so much concerned with yet another concrete incident in a very long line as with the respect and appreciation that soldiers deserve and experience insufficiently. The Secretary of State recently had a golden opportunity "a shot for an open cause" you could call it "to turn all those fine words into deeds," to show that Defence really put its people in one move by agreeing a good collective agreement, a collective agreement in which soldiers would see that respect and appreciation in their pockets. When I addressed the Secretary of State in the same Question Time two weeks ago, she tried to convince me that the collective agreement was fine. She didn't convince me then. And now we can see that she hasn't convinced her own people either. They rejected what was put on the table by the Secretary of State last week on a massive scale. My question to the Secretary of State is: do you understand why this collective agreement has been so massively rejected by your people? Do you understand that such a collective agreement is a symbol of the lack of appreciation and respect that soldiers experience? And do you understand that you need to offer these people more quickly, more than just the explanation you just offered? Is that what you're gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u6	As Mr Kerstens well knows, also from his own background, a collective agreement always goes between employers and employees, represented by the power stations. All four have also submitted this proposal to their supporters, because they agreed with it. I myself attended a number of these information meetings under the working conditions agreement and pensions. What I've seen there is an organization that feels partially abandoned. That's not just working conditions. That's in a lot more. That's in something that's actually built up from the gut feeling. It's exactly what you say; it's about appreciation. That is why it is not only a percentage to be taken into account when it comes to the collective agreement. That's what I got from this information meeting. It is about much more, like: I feel heard in the organisation; what happens next? Making people feel heard and then doing something about it is what both the Minister and myself, as well as the Secretary-General and the CDS, but above all all all those commanders who are working daily with the people, have done over the past period but have also had to do more. We need to find out what it's in and how we're gonna fix it. This includes an agreement on terms and conditions of employment. I am currently considering what this means, because this was not only an agreement on working conditions but also a pension system. So that has a big impact. I have informed you that, if there is more to it, I will return to it, especially towards the power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u7	I understand that as a Chamber, we are not at the collective bargaining table. But I do hope that the Minister has at least heard my party's message, because that collective agreement is a symbol of not being heard, of not being appreciated and of not being given sufficient respect. Last Friday I spoke with some other members of the Permanent Chambers Committee for Defence a number of soldiers. They said that for a whole weekend of service they got just over €30, and not as a supplement but as a whole salary for such a weekend work. Well, my daughter started working at the Jumbo last week, and she deserves it, and that's not because the Jumbo pays so well. There really are billions on the shelf, Secretary of State. Do something with it for your people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u8	As Mr Kerstens well knows, there are not billions on the shelf. Defence has committed to all these billions. Only those will come to an issue at a later date. This is the way our budgetary system works, unfortunately. We have also put forward a proposal for this when it comes to budgetary funds. This has also been supported by the Chamber. It is also included in the coalition agreement. But if you say that there must be more appreciation and that, for example, the allowance must be adjusted, I say: yes, that is also one of the proposals contained in the collective agreement. We realize that it was a first step, because we are dealing with a wage building that is already 100 years old, that we have not adapted for 100 years. That is exactly why it needs to be adapted. Can we do that in one go? No, it's gonna have to be step-by-step. That includes the allowances. By the way, DOD spends twice as much on grants. The question is whether that system still works, whether it has to be done in another way, or whether you have to do it much more specifically. Those are all kinds of questions that are part of a discussion about a new wage building. However, we have agreed to do so before 1 January 2020 in the framework of the collective agreement. What will happen to it now, of course, we do not know, but I will talk about it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u10	It became a side conversation about working conditions. I'd like to return to the commandos exposed to toxic fumes on the range. It's not the first time we've been standing here. I have also expressed my displeasure at the times before that. I understand that the organization is in the process of building up. But these commandos considered it necessary to release their letter outside the organization. They indicated that they had not been informed of the measures taken. They would not therefore have known to what extent they have worked safely. That is what this is about, and that is my first question to the Secretary of State. How come these commandos didn't know and even sent a letter to make that clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u11	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr President, I do not know. I don't know, because I don't know the commandos in question. I don't know why they chose this route either. What I do know, because that's what we've been asking, too, is that these questions have been asked to the commander of the corps itself. Whether he's had conversations, what happened, or he recognizes this as well. Last Friday there was another so-called soapbox session with the entire force, asking: where did this come from? Are you worried? What does this mean? That wasn't recognized there. I also saw the letter on the website last night from those 15 commandos. I would therefore like to call on them to come forward, so that we can enter into the conversation. Because in this way, with just that letter, it becomes very difficult to talk to each other and to discuss that concern with each other. So that would actually be my call. I asked the commander. He doesn't recognize it from his role right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mrs Belhaj, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr President, my first question has not been answered. My question was how these commandos could not have been aware of this. My second question is this. Look, you can say, if people don't come forward, defense can't do anything. But we have the Inspector General of the Armed Forces, the Inspector General of Security, the Central Organisation Integrity Defence, the internal inspection. Those institutions are all there for people to report. If people do not report, I would like you not only to observe "they are not reporting," but to wonder why people are not reporting, because then there is more to it. I would like to know if the Secretary of State is willing to investigate more broadly why existing institutions do not qualify as safe institutions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u16	...to check in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u17	First of all, Mrs Belhaj's first question. You asked why. I told you I don't know. I asked the commander who is responsible for this what his image was, if he recognized it, if he had discussed it with his people. I gave you an answer to that. I don't know which commands these are, so I can't really look into their heads and ask the question at all. For I would like to ask them this question: why did you choose this path? Why don't you choose the path starting with the commander? That really is the first designated person to enter into this conversation. Then you do have all kinds of hotlines within the Defense Department where you can make these kinds of notifications. We have instructed the Giebels committee, and you know that, too, to see if that system works. What's it gonna take? My point is quite frankly that, precisely because we have so many hotlines, we may need to simplify it so that it becomes much easier and more unambiguous. But the Geebels committee will be presenting her report in a week's time. Then the Chamber can take note of that, including what the Defense Department will do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mrs Bruins Slot, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kerstens has actually applied a special cloaking technique by starting with the commandos and then using the collective agreements of the military. Two interesting issues, by the way. But I would like to continue with the questions that were logged in, namely the reporting of the commands. The fact that they've run health risks during target practice is really bad. The good thing is that a commander has taken action in this area and has also asked for advice. But the Secretary of State just made it very clear: yes, it was not properly communicated in the organisation afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u20	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u21	I find that rather vague. The question is: where exactly did it go wrong? Also because we have to learn from it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u22	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u23	... because this is really at the expense of people's health.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr. Chairman. It seems to me appropriate to mention that in 2015 this investigation was carried out in response to questions from the commander of the KCT at the time, at the internal health service. That's also what any commander in the defense can do. Based on this, it is recommended to use that firing range either not, or in another way. The commander then decided to use this in a different way, also because of the fact that we were, of course, discussing new shooting ranges that we were going to buy. Subsequently, the MCGS, which, as an internal supervisor of defence shooting ranges, approved the firing range, on condition that the air change would be adjusted. That's what defense invested in, even if it's a private shooting range. So there's extra money in there. I cannot judge to what extent that has or has not been communicated to every individual command using it. That was actually Mrs Belhaj's question: how can the commander say that measures have been taken, but apparently they did not land on all those commands? That is really one of the points I have questions about myself, and I have asked them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u25	They must also be short for those in power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u26	Measures have been taken in response to the report. I would like to point out the whole discussion about Ossendrecht and the Van der Veer Committee. Gases released during shooting are, of course, one of the most important issues. The CEAG has carried out additional research. On this basis, the Board of Directors has taken a decision. Management Plans made that decision without involving all the information available...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u28	... because it was an internal report that was with the commander of the Corps Commando. That's the communication error I've already mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you. I'm sorry to interrupt you, but it's very annoying if I have to keep Members of Parliament short, while the rulers take all the space to do their story. That's not entirely fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u30	You're right about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you.
