ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the position of young women in the labour market. I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment in trade union K. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg as the first speaker on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Office which we are discussing today shows that many young women start working part-time on the labour market at the start of their career. Three quarters of MBO-graduate women start part-time. Nowhere else in Europe is the rate of part-time start-up so high, the differences with young men are so large and the average working time of young women starting up in the labour market is so low. I find that worrying, because that is where we put the seeds for later delays. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has a number of actions in mind when it comes to women's labour market position. There will be firm measures for the number of women in the summit. In 2019 it will be left behind. There will be a new plan for labour market discrimination. It will address both labour market discrimination and pregnancy discrimination. I'm counting on solid action. The cabinet is also going to look, as has been promised, at measures to further combat pay discrimination. I await this with great impatience, including the reaction to the initiative law of the Labour Party, among other things. The cabinet takes many fiscal measures to keep working will pay more, even if you have children. One of them is more childcare allowance. Mr. Chairman. Then why are we having a separate debate? We do that because the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau actually reveals something else. Even before children are involved, young women are more likely to work part-time. Since the end of the last century women have performed much better in education, better than men. But, as the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau says so beautifully, they do not yet know how to cash in on this improved position on the labour market. The youngest generation has even a higher hourly wage, but this group is still less often economically independent. That difference is purely due, or above all, to the difference in working hours. Mr. Chairman. In the Emancipation Note, the Minister of Emancipation expresses the ambition to break the self-evident nature of this pattern. We read that the Minister explores what leads that research offers for policy. I am, of course, extremely curious about that. Can the Minister make that a little more concrete? When can the Chamber hear anything from this reconnaissance? What does the Minister intend to do to achieve this ambition, which fully supports D66? Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, we see that some women consciously opt for part-time work. But we also see that starting at a young age in part-time, often has a real negative impact on promotional opportunities and career prospects and can explain future pay differences. I ask the Ministers how we can help to raise awareness of the negative effects of these choices. People can choose for themselves, but do they actually realize what price they will pay for it later? How do both ministers see that? I will table a motion requesting that we consider how we can increase both knowledge and awareness. Mr. Chairman. However, part of it starts involuntarily part-time. Of the 420,000 people in the Netherlands who want to work more hours, two thirds are women. It is precisely in sectors where many women work, such as care and education, that a request for an increase in the number of hours is not accepted. And that in sectors where people are just jumping over people. I really can't rhyme with that. Even when people start their first job there, they don't get the number of hours they want. For this, I am looking at the Minister of Social Affairs. There will be an action plan against labour market shortages. I will call on the Minister in the second term not only to examine what is behind this, but also to really engage in discussions with these sectors, because this is bad for care, bad for education, where people are jumping over people, and especially bad for people, especially women, who want to work more hours and are being hindered. Of course, these two things cannot be reconciled at all. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a slightly broader question. The study carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that three quarters of young women with MBO training are working part-time straight away and that young women in the labour market have more flexible contracts than men, temporary contracts. We know that this also has an impact on, for example, investment in training. They are also linked to the form of contract and to part-time work. Suppose they resign later or, for example, start working less after the birth of a child. So how do we ensure that I ask the Minister of Social Affairs, but also the Minister of Empowerment, that the risk is not higher that this will lead to higher benefit dependency, that people will not return later or that after a divorce they will not succeed in being economically independent? I find it worrying that people with less education are so vulnerable but also make a number of choices that make them particularly vulnerable. Could the ministers look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u3	If Mr Van Weyenberg talks about the category of women who work part-time but would like to expand but face obstacles, he finds me entirely on his side where the point is that this should be made much easier. As far as education is concerned, that is obviously too crazy for words because there is a great deal of need for manpower or women's strength, or, rather, human strength. With regard to the first category referred to by Mr Van Weyenberg, the young girls and women who do choose consciously, he has announced two motions for resolutions. Do they relate to, for example, the LOB course in schools, which deans should do? Because that's where it's already happening and from my experience to a sufficient extent. So as far as I'm concerned, it's very often a very conscious choice. So what else could you do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u4	First of all: yes, in education but also in health care, we also have to look at whether working more hours is difficult because of the workload and so one chooses part-time. So there are more questions than just the wish, but Mr Beertema knows a lot more about education than I do. Then the second point: yes, it's a voluntary choice, but if it comes from dragged patterns that make it not a conscious choice of its own, then that's something you can change. Of course, people can choose for themselves. That is what Mr Bertema and I are totally in agreement on, but if, for example, young women do not realize how vulnerable it is for them to get into a benefit situation later on, I do think you should see if you can at least raise awareness and perhaps make a different choice. Again, people make their own choices at the end of the day, but they don't make that choice in isolation. I would like to give them more tools to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u5	Finally, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u6	That sounds very nice, but we were talking to the Inspector General of Education this morning and he said something very commendable, namely that the worn patterns do not change if you do nothing about them. For example, as soon as you show them the way through LOB, Career Guidance and Guidance, the knowledge is there. But what if they don't choose the way you want them to? What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u7	One of the things that strikes me is that many more young women than young men make part-time choices. That may be a different preference, but that can also be because there are still deep patterns that it should be. I would like to mention, for example, the assumption that if children are to be born, we will have less work, although we may not be fully aware that we in the Netherlands have made child care so well organized and affordable by now, and that, fortunately, there will also be partner leave for the father, so that we will have much more opportunities to perform the care tasks equally. When it comes to the consideration that people make, I want to give more insight and I want to see if some of the dragged-in role patterns that change might change a little faster. In the end, everyone decides for themselves; I agree with Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This will be the century of women, I heard from the United Nations General Assembly seven years ago. It does start to look like it sometimes. Never before have more girls studied, often more than men, and fortunately women are also doing better on the labour market. But despite all the progress, there is still cause for concern. We talked about it in detail recently during the AO Emancipation. On one point, the Netherlands is still dangling at the bottom of all the European lists: the economic and financial autonomy of women. The SCP report, which gave rise to this debate, underlines this once again. Young women work part-time much more often than men, even if they do not yet have children. What is more striking about the SCP-report, Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned it already, is that a large proportion of young women who are now working part-time indicate that they want to work more. The gap in the labour market between men and women is therefore early and difficult to catch up with afterwards. In addition, we see that women opt more often than men for sectors where wages are already lower and where more use is made of flex contracts. I am not even talking about the persistent pay gap between men and women or about the equally persistent pregnancy discrimination. Fortunately, we can do something about the last two. To address the inequality of remuneration, the PvdA, together with the SP, GroenLinks and 50PLUS, is preparing an initiative law. With regard to the fight against pregnancy discrimination, we welcome the government's planned plan of action. The information actions and the hotline at the College of Human Rights have led to a significant increase in the number of notifications. Now it is important to take firm action against employers who deliberately break the rules. Can the Minister confirm that the SZW inspection will have sufficient force to do so? Then the permanent part-time dilemma. I notice that when we talk about emancipation, it's always about women. Fine, of course, to talk about the employment rate of women. Indeed there is much to win there, but there is a large light blue elephant in the room. Because why are we never talking about the unpaid employment rate of men? Women still do 65% of all unpaid work. Who's doing the laundry? Who fills the breadbox? Who takes care of parents, neighbors, children? Why are they still mainly women in 2018? Of course, that conversation starts at the kitchen table, but I am curious to see what the cabinet wants to do to ensure that the tasks at home are distributed more fairly. Not only do many women want to work more, many men also want to work less. To begin with, the PvdA would like to see a fairer distribution of parental leave. We still see that more men than women make use of the opportunities offered by this leave scheme: 23% men versus 75% women. In many traditionally male sectors it is still taboo to take leave; think of the construction or metal sector. We welcome the first step taken by the cabinet to make parental leave pay, but are we sure that no groups are going to fall out of the boat, e.g.zzp'ers? And does the Minister agree that a targeted campaign on parental leave for men can contribute to a fairer distribution? Mr. Chairman. A smart girl is still prepared for her future and a real guy still irons his own shirt. But in last week's Education Report we read that the Netherlands is also dangling at the bottom of all European lists. Girls don't choose technology and beta profiles, boys hardly choose care or education. Last week it was Girlsday again, to interest more girls in technique. I saw the Minister was there, too. This is a super-beautiful and successful initiative. Isn't it time for a Boysday, for more boys to be interested in care or education? Does the Minister agree with us that there is also an important key to solving structural inequalities between men and women in the labour market in the choice of study? As long as girls continue to opt for sectors where part-time is the norm, where wages are low and the workload and uncertainty are high, nothing will change the household model of the fifties of the last century. They're long gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. Exactly within four minutes; very handsome. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u11	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about how we can improve the labour market position of young women. Research shows that young women work part-time more often. That's not always voluntary. Moreover, they are less often economically independent. At European level, the Netherlands stands out: nowhere else in Europe do young women work as few hours as in the Netherlands. There is a large group of women who would like to work longer. Some of them work in the care sector. That's what an attack plan comes for. I'm gonna ask the government if she can lift a tip of the veil from that attack plan. A logical follow-up question is, of course, whether it is going to do the same for childcare and education, where there are more or less the same problems. There's a lot of part-time work there, too. Mr. Chairman. One conclusion from the report is that young women have flex contracts more often than men. What are you gonna do about it? To what extent does pregnancy discrimination play a role in this? During the week we heard that the number of complaints has increased considerably, from 270 to 1,470. Most reports are that temporary contracts are not renewed. Does the Minister share the view that it is unacceptable for pregnancy to play a role in this? My proposal is: make fixed work more attractive than flex and make binding agreements with employers on reducing pregnancy discrimination. I'd like a response. Another important point is, of course, childcare. As long as there are still high costs involved, it is unattractive for many women to go to work. So we need to get to work quickly on affordable childcare. As far as SP is concerned, we make childcare, for starters, for two days a week free of charge. The good news is that this does not have to cost money if we make child benefit dependent on income. I assume that the Minister of Emancipation will therefore immediately embrace this proposal. Then we have the extension of paternity leave. The government is taking steps, but it can do even better. Provide 100% compensation for partner leave. Then it becomes attractive for all groups, poor and rich. Mr. Chairman. The government talks about economic independence. The ambition is being strengthened. People even need to become financially independent. That means earning 100% of the minimum wage. That's great. But why the hell is there the plan for pay dispensation, which means that disabled people are going to earn below the minimum wage? That plan has to get out of the way right now, doesn't it? Then there are the single people in welfare, including many young women. The government has already indicated that the assistance gives little room for manoeuvre. If you care for children, it is not even sufficient. That is a cry for action, especially if you give up so much financial independence. If you say that the assistance is insufficient and you want to promote economic independence, then fix it, or you're not worth a snipe. I have just tabled a motion on this. Moreover, the situation is not resolved by the child-related budget. Look at an impact assessment from Utrecht. In this we see that a single mother with two children in puberty still lacks €100 per month. Make this right, and please do not make the argument that there should remain an incentive to go to work. This income is simply too low. It's a matter of civilisation to restore that. Finally, I would argue that the government should embrace our beautiful bill to close the pay gap between men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you, Mr President. We know the price of everything and of nothing the value. Fortunately, there is increasing interest in a broad concept of prosperity and growing awareness that prosperity is about much more than just money. It is also about health, a green and safe environment and enough time to take care of children or elderly people, study or volunteer. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing emancipation in the labour market and the position of young women in particular. Although the Emancipation Note is full of good initiatives for example lhbti'ers, in the planned labour market measures the VVD mantra "everything for the economy" sounds very loud. The Minister states in her Emancipation Note that more women need to work more hours, so that the economy can grow by up to 4%, generating more premium and tax revenues for the Treasury. The Social and Cultural Planning Office even states that part-time work is considered undesirable for women. This minister even makes policies: part-time work is deliberately made less attractive. Mr. Chairman. We live in a time when with less and less human power we can produce and organize everything we need. In fact, that's a blessing. It offers a great opportunity to spend more time on other things, such as caring for each other and for nature, for personal development, art and entrepreneurial spirit, the things that make life truly worthwhile. But the way in which we have now organised the economy makes such a development impossible. People in our society must work more and to a higher age, rather than less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u14	Mrs Arissen says that the note shows above all economic importance, while I think the Minister's note is very clear about the self-determination and independence of women and can save yourself, even if things are different from what you might have imagined at first. If it is so central that it strengthens the individual's position and makes the woman stronger, I think it's a little sour to say: oh, that's for the economy. Then where is the importance of the woman according to the Party for the Animals? I'm so excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u15	I am extremely pleased with this question from the VVD, because it is just in the note. Gross national product per capita could increase by 4% as a result of more gender equality in the labour market. We think that is a wrong approach. Of course, it is very important that women are financially independent and that they do not have to work part-time if they do not want to. If they want to work more hours, fine. But they should not be forced to compete in the rat race for economic growth and for ever more and longer working. It is very important that women, as well as men, have their own choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u16	I am very glad that the Animal Party has read the note correctly. Then Mrs Arissen has also read that there is no record of anyone being forced into anything. It's about self-determination. It's about giving the tools, so you can decorate your own life. At the moment when you could work more, but this is not possible for several reasons, this minister wants to do something about it. She also wants to be aware of the choices you make very early in your life about part-time work. I do not think that there is a need to force anyone, but it is precisely the strength that women have in them to take care of themselves. So I think it is a very much sought-after argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u17	It is very clear on pages 6 and 7 in the approach to employment participation: it is becoming more rewarding to start working and for part-time workers it is becoming more rewarding to increase their hours. Of course, it is good that it is getting more rewarding to work, but that does not mean that you should ensure that people can no longer work part-time. That can be very valuable for volunteering and many more things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u19	Then I come straight to the next point I wanted to make. Any woman who wants to work or wants to work more must be able to do so freely. No glass ceiling, no unfair reward and certainly no old-fashioned role patterns. Would this Minister of Emancipation also be satisfied as men want to work as much as women and as much as part-time? If they wanted to be at home with their children as much as they wanted to be at home with their children or to provide care? Would more men in part-time work no longer contribute to breaking old-fashioned role patterns? Does the Minister see the value of that? We will have to organise it differently, in order to achieve the emancipation of women and men. We will have to move towards a broad concept of prosperity, rather than staring blindly at more production and more consumption, in order to boost gross domestic product, with all the negative consequences for our health, our well-being and our planet. That is why we will have to revalue unpaid labour. We should not impose taxes on labour, but on the use of raw materials. This will make it possible to recover lost jobs, which have been relocated to the low-wage countries. Think of the large textile industry or other manufacturing and repair industries. There will be more work in all areas, because labour will be much cheaper. But with business as usual, the minister thinks he can achieve emancipation. We share the desire for financial independence with the Minister. However, we do not want to achieve this by further hunting people for the benefit of the economy. We want this through, for example, a basic income: a system in which men and women have equal basic security, a system in which they can really organise their lives as they wish. Also a system in which the value of care tasks and volunteering is much more apparent. Can the Minister reflect on that? The economic impact of all women at work and children in childcare has long been calculated. But our addiction to economic growth must not play a part in emancipation policy and must certainly not be at the expense of our health. I would like to hear how both ministers feel about this. What are they going to do to take into account things that we all feel are valuable, but which cannot be converted into percentage economic growth or gross domestic product? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u20	Thank you, Mrs Arissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Women are still disadvantaged in the labour market. This is reflected in a report by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Let me mention a number of outcomes. The pay gap and the difference between full-time and part-time does not emerge gradually after a few years, but already plays a role in finding a first job. Women with low levels of education find less work than men in the same situation. Women work part-time much more often than men. Men get a permanent contract rather than women. Mr. Chairman. It is no wonder, therefore, that women see their career opportunities more often as gloomy. GroenLinks believes that a fixed contract should be the starting point for an employee. Flexwork creates unnecessary stress for many people. In some cases, this affects women even harder than men. For example, women with flexible contracts are at great risk of losing their jobs because of pregnancy. Temporary agencies and many other companies do not yet take responsibility for pregnant women. In 2017, 35% of the reports to the Human Rights College on pregnancy discrimination were reported. Much attention has already been paid to providing information to pregnant women, but is it not time that we also called on employers to do so much more? Is it not time for binding agreements in the sector? Will they be part of the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan? Shouldn't the inspection intervene harder when it comes to extending contracts? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Women work part-time much more often, regardless of education and age. Of course, any woman who wishes to do so must be able to work part-time, just as naturally as a job for five days a week must be available to every woman. In this respect, the report shows that there seems to be a distinction between men's sectors, where all jobs are full-time, and women's sectors, where part-time jobs have actually become the norm. The question is: is this because of the sectors or the workers themselves? Is the Minister prepared to do some more research on this? Would it not be good to encourage more part-time jobs in so-called male sectors? If we want women to work more, we also need to make sure that men have less work to do. One of the reasons women work less is that domestic tasks and care tasks all end up on their shoulders. That is why we are pleased that the cabinet wants to extend parental leave. But there's a problem there. Parental leave is granted at 70% of the income. The richer workers can probably turn that in, but what about those who have a little more trouble making ends meet? A lot of people get into trouble if they just turn in a third of their income. In these families it is also more common that the husband is a breadwinner and that the woman has a part-time job. If the man can't get more time off, then of course the domestic tasks go sideways. This Minister's plan means that only the rich daddies can take time off. How does the Minister intend to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. During the AO Emancipation I have already said that many people are not disadvantaged in just one area. Our policies can unwittingly harm people in a vulnerable position. That is why I would like to ask the Cabinet whether it can also have a specific approach in the upcoming Action Plan on Labour Discrimination. I am not talking about the approach of interculturality, which is already being developed within emancipation policy. Can the Minister undertake to do this? I'm also considering a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u22	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u23	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop has left the building, so I will have to take care of the various sound now. Young women would be less economically independent than young men. Also, very early in the career, small part-time jobs would often provide the basis for future pay differentials and lower career opportunities. That all sounds very intense in the ears of the equality sailors, I'll just call them that, but fortunately the SCP has also done research on the causes. As far as we are concerned, this is a more nuanced picture. Like any other debate, we are talking about facts here, but actually much more about feelings, about emotions. They also determine, to a large extent, differences in the labour market position. We note that, in order for the emancipation agenda of the political community to succeed, action must be taken, above all, in human feelings and emotions. This SCP report shows that again. Essential differences must be artificially eliminated, and public intervention must be applied to people and their deepest motives. That sounds scary, that sounds totalitarian. And it is. Whoever wants to know more about this should read Brave New World by Aldous Huxley. We're on our way. Mr. Chairman. Girls and young women are the products of an autonomous process that reflected in three emancipation waves. The girls and young women of 2018 are more emancipated than ever, they're better educated than ever, they're even better at teaching than young men. Someone already said it and they're more self-conscious than ever. I'm proud of that, and we should cherish it. But I note that a left-wing and überliberal party like D66 does not cherish that. They don't appreciate the discernment and self-thinking of those young women. I call that sexist. I particularly call that paternalistic. Let me explain on the basis of facts. Part of the explanation of the differences in working hours lies in the training followed. Women are more likely to opt for training prior to a part-time job. It's all been mentioned. The young people themselves are not so unhappy about that at all. Young men are satisfied with the opportunities for an employer to grow; women are especially satisfied with the appreciation they receive. Men generally attach greater importance to good income and career-making; women consider it important that they can combine a job with hobbies, with possibly future care tasks, giving them a preference for part-time work. Having less career prospects does not automatically mean that women themselves always regret it. Where more than three quarters of male pupils and students consider it important to promote, this applies only to more than half of female pupils and students. The proportion of women who later want to lead and find high income important is also lower than that of men. So some women do not experience it as a very big problem that their career opportunities are sometimes limited. We conclude that differences in the labour market position can be explained to a large extent by statistically demonstrable differences in the preferences of men and women. Men tend to work hard for a lifetime and to participate in the rat race that Mrs Arissen talked about. This can lead to success in one, but also to a frustrated life as a wage slave with the other. Women tend to tend towards meaning in their lives, by focusing more on intangible things that also enhance life, and less on more money and more power and more influence. The latter fits well with what GroenLinks calls "economicism," which according to the great thinker Jesse Klaver amounts to return thinking and reducing all social issues to economic issues. GroenLinks should therefore be content that many young women consciously embrace this. I wonder if my colleague from GroenLinks will recognize anything about that. I am, of course, also interested in the Minister's response. Of course, the PVV is in favour of women being economically independent, but that is mainly the responsibility of women themselves. Of course, it is desirable to inform young people, both men and women, about the consequences of the choices they make for their chances on the labour market. That is why we have created the profession of career guidance. I would like to ask the Minister to what extent this aspect is adequately addressed. Mr. Chairman. I haven't had any interruptions at all, and I see now that I've probably spoken too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u24	No, it's not that bad. Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I now give the floor to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet speaking on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u25	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is in favour of emancipation because this concept implies the pursuit of equality. The same applies to young, newly graduated women looking for a job. If they want to, women should be able to work more and men should be able to work less. We should not assume in advance less hours of work for a woman. I wonder how the Minister looks at this. Unlike some parties, the CDA also opts for a form of family. The CDA doesn't choose that both parents work full-time. The free choice of parents is essential for the CDA. There is a tendency to spend child care entirely on others. The CDA wants to give parents the opportunity to raise their own children as much as possible. It is a social redistribution of time and money. How's the minister looking at this? Part-time jobs can be a good solution and are not necessarily a problem. It is true that the balance must be improved, that women, if they want to, must be able to work more and men less. The increasing employment rate of women has so far led to a strong focus on outsourcing care rather than the redistribution desired by the CDA. Men are still not expected to be sufficiently adapted and the CDA wants this to change during this cabinet period. Several measures in the coalition agreement are aimed at this. This extends paternity and parental leave. In concrete terms, this means that fathers will be given five days' leave from 2019 at the birth of their child. In addition, partners, fathers, are entitled to five weeks of additional paid maternity leave of 70% of their salary. The additional partner's leave may be taken from 1 July 2020 within six months of childbirth. In this way, mothers and fathers are given the opportunity to share care and work fairly. Working on the start of young women and men, the title of the report, we try to take steps in emancipation to solve the complex issue. This requires understanding, adaptation to this time in view of a future in which it is accepted that women and men can be responsible together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet. Mr Jasper van Dijk has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA is for emancipation. That's good news. Is the CDA also against the gender pay gap? If so, are you prepared to support our bill to close that pay gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u28	The CDA is in favour of equal pay for men and women in equal work, but the CDA is also in favour of making that choice. In the pay gap you're talking about, it's not their choice; it's something that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u29	That's exactly right. Research shows that men earn 6% more for exactly the same job than women. They get 6% more for exactly the same work. Do you agree with me that we need to take measures to close that gap? And do you agree with me that our bill is a good idea for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u30	The Emancipation Note also states that there will be equal pay for men and women. Right? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u31	Please continue. That's it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u32	I was asked a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u33	Yeah, that's fine. All right, now I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD. And I think Mr. Jasper van Dijk will stand by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Jasper van Dijk doesn't want to interrupt yet? No? Okay, then it comes. Girls are actually doing very well in the Netherlands, as other speakers have already said. That's especially true when you look at education. Girls often sit there on the higher levels, they fall out less often early and they graduate faster than men. But then, even before there's a goldfish in the picture, let alone kids, a lot of girls are gonna work part-time. That must of course be decided by everyone; that is a free choice and that is absolutely beautiful. But this freedom of choice and the fact that Dutch women are massively opting for part-time work do have consequences for both individuals and society as a whole. This gives the individual less opportunities, less opportunities for growth, and no or less financial independence. Those are the consequences that we have to consider together. There are also consequences for society as a whole. The fact is that in our society women are less well represented in crucial areas. We have talked about this before and we will talk about it more often, but these are aspects that we really need to face. Women are less well represented. I sometimes say either you're at the table or you're on the menu. If you're not sitting at the tables where the decisions are made, then you haven't talked about it, then it's about you, but then others decide about you. We are very pleased with the attention given by these ministers to women who would like to work more but cannot do so because of different circumstances. I have already said that we welcome the commitment of the Minister of Emancipation to return to the Chamber on what exactly that labour market position might entail and on the plans it has and has already shown in the note. I would also very much like specific attention to be paid to technology. This morning, a study was carried out by the ESC which shows that there is a huge shortage of human resources for the energy transition. That energy transition is one of the greatest challenges of our century that we all face and work hard together on. So there is a huge shortage of men, of women, and a huge shortage anyway. I am also a spokesman for climate and energy, so I have made a lot of work visits in the context of the energy transition. It doesn't matter whether you come to a refinery or a place where windmills are being built; in such places a lot of people work from outside the Netherlands because in our country the people with the right education can't be found at all. And if you're looking for women, you really need a magnifying glass. So there's really something there for all of us to win. I would therefore be very pleased if the Minister could pay particular attention to this. Perhaps both ministers will also be able to discuss this with their colleagues on Economic Affairs and Climate Policy because, of course, they are also very busy working on it. It would be very nice if we could make that link with each other and better decorate it. Mr President, I actually wanted to conclude with another aspect. We have, of course, talked about "you can know it yourself" and "if you want to work more often, we also have attention to it," but of course it is not just a matter of your own choice. Part-time work is also embedded in our culture. If you know that a third of the young girls expect to depend on the state or a partner at a young age, then you know that it affects us all and that we also need to be very aware of the role of example we have with each other and of what we have here with each other about what you can do in this country. Actually, that's it, Mr. Chairman. I find it so disappointing that I have no interruption of the SP. In the twenty seconds I have left, I can think of some things that will cause an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u35	Mr Van Dijk was very threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u36	He's making an effort anyway, and I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u37	Isn't it? Mr Jasper Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u38	Yes, of course, I can't let such a provocation go by.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u39	No, that's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u40	As we are used to from the VVD, it is again many words and few deeds. Emancipation is important, a fine speech about young women who need to participate more in the labour market, but if you really want to strengthen that, then of course you could argue with me. Perhaps we can do business today, I would say for affordable childcare. Does the VVD agree with me that emancipation and opportunities for young women really increase only if we make childcare affordable, starting two days a week for free?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u41	What is free for the SP is rarely free for the rest of the country. But today we're talking about young girls who, as soon as they finish their studies and before there are children in the picture, start working part-time. So that shows that there is something in our culture as well, in what we expect from each other. It can almost be an automatism, and, as the colleague from D66 said, it can also be a pattern, the image that we might maintain with each other. So today it's about the young girls who, without children and for no other reason, which I'm probably getting a question about right now, say "I want to work part-time right away," with all the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u42	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u43	Let's talk about the original oneliner. Perhaps Mrs Yeşilgöz will be able to go to the advertising industry, because that is really going to be a very good compliment. But if she had listened a little more carefully, she would have heard that my proposal doesn't have to cost a penny. If we make child benefit dependent on income, we can make child care two days a week free of charge. How beautiful is that! "Budget neutral," the VVD always sounds like music to the ears. It is true: young women without children already want to work part-time. But of course you agree with me that, when they do have children, that expensive child care is not an incentive to get to work, as the VVD would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u44	I look forward to a substantive debate on childcare and the like. It's not my wallet, but I'd really like it with Mr. Van Dijk. Today it's about young girls going straight to work part-time. If it were really about the fact that childcare is very expensive, then we could also have a conversation about why men do not work part-time and take care of their children. But that is not the case. It is women who are part-time European champions. The differences between men and women are nowhere so great, so we really have something here that affects the position of women. I would be very grateful if we could put that on the table in this committee with the spokesmen's emancipation and try to tackle what that is all about. That is what I really prefer at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u45	I hear the VVD here as a sort of advocate for more women's work, that they work less part-time and work as much as men, but the VVD also knows that 15% of women have been burned out or overstressed. Two years ago, that was 9.4%. So when women work more and more and have all the care tasks, you see that they become more and more overexcited. How is the VVD supposed to do that if all these women have to work even more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u46	And so Mr Bishop is a bit present! I think it's a very special question. I think I have a little more faith in the power of women. I don't think that if they wanted to work more, and they could because we're working on it together, they'd all get overwhelmed. So I think it's a bit of a complicated question in that sense, but what I can still give is this. The VVD stands for the freedom of every human being. We're talking about the position of women today. As far as women's freedom is concerned, as far as I am concerned, there are preconditions: self-determination, i.e. that you decide what you do with your body, safety and economic independence. Because that's when you decide for yourself. That's what this is all about for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u47	I am pleased to hear that the VVD is now an advocate of financial and economic independence, and that there are conditions. Does the VVD not agree with the Animal Party that we should look for these conditions precisely in reducing wage taxes, making labour cheaper and taxing raw materials? Then those who want to work can indeed go to work, but there is also time, possibly with a basic income, for the things that really are of value. That is not a SGP position at all. This seems to me to be very healthy in a healthy society, where people have freedom and indeed have the opportunity to organise their lives as they wish. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u48	I thank Mrs Arissen for the question. She says a lot of things I don't agree with, but we find each other in what she started. So let me close with that. She says, "Don't you think work should pay better?" We as a VVD certainly think so, and the cabinet certainly thinks so. That is why a great deal is being done. I'm very happy about that, too. I hope that everyone can reap the benefits of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u49	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u50	I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u51	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Chamber for setting up this report. It's good to talk about this. As far as I am concerned, there is not enough talk in the coming years about the importance of strengthening women's position in the labour market. The investigation of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau we are discussing today has been carried out on behalf of my ministry. The question was how young people end up when they start working and to what extent there are gender differences at the start of the labour market. Women do very well in education; let us also cherish it. Mr Beertema, who just walked in, said I would paraphrase him now and then that there is some talk of emancipation. But we should be proud of that: a great deal has been achieved. Women do very well in education. As Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said, it is remarkable that, according to the report, the improved position of women in education is not yet paid out on the labour market. That is a point on which we should be concerned, not as an end in itself; Mrs Arissen was quite critical of it. But being financially independent is important. Mrs Yeșilgöz rightly said that this is self-determination. That is at the heart of this debate: it is about women's self-determination. Mrs Arissen mentioned things that are really important in life, such as taking care of your environment and developing and developing yourself. By the way, that is very often through work. A lot of people experience a lot of enjoyment of self-development through paid work; that may be true for you here as well. But it's self-determination and self-determination that's just easier when you're financially on your own. That is the essence of what is at stake. Economic growth is not an end in itself. That's a nice one. It is very good that we do not leave talent in society, that we ensure that every talent can develop. But at the core, it's about self-determination. That is the heart of the debate. We need to look closely at how women, who are well placed in education, are not able to cash in on their position as soon as they enter the labour market, or at least too little. The SCP provides an insight into how you could promote that. In this context, Mr Van Weyenberg asked: when are you going to give us a concrete look; how are we going to promote a better position for young women or specific groups of women in the labour market? I have already promised in the AO Emancipation that we will come up with a letter on specific measures to this end after the summer recess. Some of them are in education. There is, of course, a great deal beginning, as Mr Beertema rightly said. It's two things. We had a VAO before in which it was already mentioned: it is of course also about stereotypes. There are a lot of girls who have up to their twelfth part-time employees for the classroom and perhaps also a mother with a small part-time job at home that depends on the partner. If that is the stereotypical image that you see repeated in advertisements, in school books, until the 12th, then Mr.Beertema can say "that is what one chooses," but then it is the question whether that choice is not also strongly influenced by the image that we have put in our culture. It is quite typical that the Netherlands is so different from the rest of Europe in this respect. That is perhaps also because our culture is so persistent in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u52	I myself did not participate in the general consultation on emancipation. One of my colleagues did. But do I understand now that the Minister says that the actions she announced in her emancipation note also see how to break that self-evident pattern? Well, that's great. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u53	These measures are, of course, in many areas. They're part of what education does. Some of them were already in the emancipation letter. They're part of what we do on the labour market. They're part of local policy, in things we do together with municipalities. I think it is good to have all this in a row to see how we can ensure that all these measures will also strengthen each other and then have a debate in the Chamber on the question "don't we miss something?" But we also have to start from that beginning. It's really about the stereotypes we get from an early age. We had a wide-ranging debate on this during the AO Emancipation. It is not for nothing that I am fully committed to, because we also need this in order to ensure that this right of self-determination really reaches full maturity. Mr Beertema also asked about career guidance in education. He has a very good point. We are already doing a lot of that, but as I often say, we also have to do it to girls from the perspective 'tomorrow starts today'. The choices you make today affect the possibilities you have tomorrow. We must therefore ensure that young people are given a good perspective in this career guidance. Think of questions like "what about earning power?', "What about career opportunities?" and "what about the possibilities of working full-time or part-time?" Maybe this is what we're gonna do. Occasionally, the impression is given that I would think that you should never work part-time again. Let me take that away as well: I am concerned that there are too many women working in very small part-time jobs that do not make them financially stand on their own feet. But if men and women together choose to combine work and care together in a reasonable part-time job, I say that to the CDA too, that is of course a good choice, but on the understanding that both are responsible for caring and that both can be financially on their own. I think that's the division we're aiming for. In this context, Mrs Van den Hul also called for attention to be paid to the emancipation of men. That is a valid point, because if we want women to work more, we will also have to ensure that their partner shares more in care. That too is something that we have to give from a young age. This also applies to those stereotypes. Make sure men find it customary that they not only iron their own shirt, but also wash it. Make sure that men not only have a daddy's day every now and then, but that they feel like daddy every day of the week and they are. So yes, it's also about the emancipation of men. Mrs Van den Hul asked if there should be a Boysday next to Girlsday. Girlsday is a fantastic initiative to introduce a lot of girls to the initiatives. 11,000 girls visited tech companies that day. Yeah, Boysday would be great. But mind you, Girlsday is not an initiative of the government. What's so great about Girlsday is that it's an initiative of the industry itself. But if, for example, initiatives were to come from the care or education sector, people say on the pabos that we are organizing a Boysday because we think that too few men work in our sector are welcome and I am going to see how I can support it. They're just as important as Girlsday for engineering. The great thing about this time is that the deficits also give us the opportunity to break through in sectors such as education, care and technology, sectors where gender typing is perhaps the most severe. I'd say, "Whoever has a great idea for a Boysday, ring a bell with me." Most of Mr Van Dijk's questions are answered by Mr Koolmees. Otherwise, I will end up with you very much in a repeat of the debate an hour ago. I say to Mrs Arissen: it is not 'everything is economic'. It is really about self-determination and it is about a choice being really a choice, your own choice, when you are independent. The fact that you are financially independent means that you can make your own choice, that you are resilient and that you can choose how you want to develop yourself. The same applies to men, as Mrs Arissen pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u54	I wonder if this financial independence is necessarily in more work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u55	For a lot of women, yes. If we see that only 48% of women in the Netherlands can be financially self-employed and that the way to earn more income is, as a rule, preferably work, that means more work for some of the women. That may mean less work for some of their partners, so that the balance at home is just a little more pleasant. But being financially independent and financially holding your own pants is usually done through work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u56	Of course, I totally understand that you can keep your own pants off when you have paid work. But we really live in a time when we can produce and organize everything we need with less human strength. That's why fewer people are needed. Is the solution rather than pushing up artificial people, pushing them to work more, rather than re-appreciating voluntary work and, for example, examining a basic income, so that people feel more free to take care of themselves and to divide care for the children between husband and wife?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u57	On the basic income, the colleague from Social Affairs is about to start. When it comes to the re-evaluation of volunteering, care and care tasks, it is also true that this is a wonderful task for everyone in this society. It's not just tasks that women have to take in. It is precisely if we want women not to become overburdened that I think you pointed out that we should also think about men's empathy on that point. You should, as I did the other day, type "coach caretaker" into a search engine and then click on "images." Look at the pictures you're seeing. I can't find a male caregiver between them. I am particularly concerned about this: it has penetrated so deeply that no one in this society depicts a male caregiver. It would also be nice if their mother were to become needy, their sons would do a little care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u58	Another very small addition, Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u59	I would like to add that, fortunately, I myself know enough male carers, but they must have the time off in order to be able to take care of them. Should we not, instead of making these women work more, keep the opportunity, for both men and women, to work less and therefore spend more time on the things that really matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u60	I always find it a little difficult for you to qualify work as something that isn't really of value. I think you're a pretty hard-working woman yourself. It has to be if you're in the Lower House. I hope you find your work of real value. I think mine's really valuable, too. I know that most people who work find it valuable to let their talents come out and develop, and that also through paid labour, making you financially stand on your own feet and be independent and able to make your own choices. That too is extremely valuable, let us not forget that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u61	Mrs Arissen may correct that for a moment, because I do not think that is what she meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u62	No, that's absolutely not what I mean. Of course, work is very valuable. It ensures personal development. The Party for Animals is really about freedom and recognition that volunteering is also very valuable. The SP or the PvdA quite rightly stated that 65% of the work is done by volunteers. We must not lose sight of that. If you force people to work more, to achieve that rat race of economic growth, then volunteering will also be ruined. I certainly do not want to say that work does not contribute to development. I, too, consider my work very valuable, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u64	I understand that very well, but I think there's still a lot to win. You're talking about pushing and forcing every once in a while. We're not pushing anyone, and we're not forcing anyone. We just want everyone in this society, man or woman, to have the same opportunities. That is really what this redistribution is about: that women have a better chance of being financially on their own and perhaps men have a better chance of being a caretaker, of having time for volunteering, of taking care of the children as well. The point is that we find a good balance there. I think it is very important that the right to self-determination for women can only be realised if they can also be financially self-sufficient. Mrs Özütök asked about men and women sectors. Is it because of the sectors? What the SCP report clearly shows is that it is a self-reinforced spiral. In a number of sectors with perhaps traditional roles and images, such as health and education, we see that women worked more part-time and that the supply has become truly part-time. In sectors where traditionally many men work, the supply is much more full-time. We need to break those spirals, and that is very well reflected in the report. What we are doing, for example, is trying to break through this with the Alliance for Work and Future. We are trying to develop collaborations which, for example, reduce part-time work in education and health care and make the gender balance more balanced, and in technology to increase the number of women working there. Mr Beertema rightly argued that we should also be proud of what has been achieved in emancipation, but I also tasted a little that it is now finished. Unfortunately, I do not feel that way, because there is still a lot to do. He also says that research shows that a lot of men and women are satisfied with that choice. We can ask ourselves whether these are really choices or whether the stereotype images and culture force them to choose. What is remarkable in the SCP report that we are discussing today is that a lot of women are not so satisfied with that choice at all. About half of the women working part-time actually want to work more. So I would venture to doubt that people are so satisfied. Mrs Luck pointed out that part-time jobs are not necessarily a problem. No. Let's keep that first. I was just trying to fix it. I am particularly concerned with the fact that part-time jobs are too small to ensure that you do not earn enough of your own income, because that has consequences if you are alone for any reason. I want us to prepare all the women for that. And yes, then it also comes down to a better division of labour and care between both partners. Mrs. Luck is absolutely right about that. I welcome the support already expressed several times by Mrs Yesilgöz: it is important to ensure that fewer women work in those small part-time jobs. With her, I think it is very worrying that a third of the very young women are often still expecting to be financially dependent. We've changed it before: even if that prince comes in white, it's still nice if you don't depend on it. Because it rides so nicely behind that horse when you always have the opportunity to get off. Mr. Chairman. That's it for my part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u65	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u66	And after the prince in shining armor I am. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said, of course. I'll try to be brief, but first I'd like to tell Mr. Beertema that Brave New World by Aldous Huxley is indeed a beautiful book. Personally, I think it's better than 1984. I don't know if Mr Beertema agrees with me, but... Mr. Chairman. Your Chamber is calling for attention to be given to an important issue: the labour market position of women. In recent years, this has improved considerably in the Netherlands. In terms of participation, we are now among Europe's leaders, and I welcome that. At the same time, we're not done. It is well known that women in the Netherlands work part-time more often, very often in part-time work. That's what the SCP says in his report. In the report, the SCP looks at the particular differences between young women and young men in the labour market. His conclusion is that young women work part-time more often than young men and are therefore more often less economically independent. It is striking that nowhere in Europe the difference in hours worked between men and women is as large as in the Netherlands. I have also spoken about this at the European summit in recent days. It is also striking that the differences between men and women already exist before children are in the picture. It is right that the Chamber should draw attention to this during this debate. There are several reasons for this: social standards, the sector in which you work, the extent to which work and care can be properly combined and the extent to which more work pays. I very much agree with Minister Van Engelshoven that financial independence is extremely important. Then it is indeed about self-determination, an important value within itself. We are still lagging behind in the Netherlands in terms of women's economic independence. Financial independence makes women more resilient in the event of setbacks, for example in the case of divorce. We all know that a third of marriages still end in divorce and that financial independence among women is still lower than among men. That just means there's work to be done. I focus on a few topics because a large part of them have already been dealt with by my colleague from OCW. The first point I would like to emphasise is the combination of work and care, having children and combining those tasks in a family. Once there are children, women often choose to work less or to stop working. It is, of course, important that children receive the attention they deserve, that parents enjoy their children and that both parents have a role in it. At the same time, that doesn't have to be a reason for the mother to quit the job. One reason for the fact that women are more likely to work part-time also comes from research, and that is that work and care are not always easy to combine. Mr Van Weyenberg specifically asked for this. The cabinet believes that we should make serious work of this. We're doing the same thing. We have the possibility of parental leave, short-term and long-term care leave and the right to flexible working hours and work at home. In addition, I really think that is the profit of the coalition agreement. We have the expansion of partner leave, the birth leave. Mrs Luck also mentioned this in her speech. The possibility to take leave after the birth of a child is extended from two days at this time to eventually six weeks, to take up within six months after birth. I think that's a big step forward when you see where we're coming from, also internationally compared. The idea behind this is that work and care tasks can then be better combined between men and women after the birth of a child, as this will also determine the position on the labour market later on. The WIEG is called that law; I also found that name very creative myself, and will soon come to your Chamber, so that we can discuss it in detail. I therefore think that it is appropriate to deal with all the substantive questions that have been raised. Another reason is that parents often choose to let the mother bear most of the care for the child. Previous research by the SCP shows that the distribution of tasks is often not explicitly discussed at all. The division of labour is often implicitly assumed and remains so. This is why a campaign is currently being launched for upcoming parents and parents with young children. The aim of this campaign is for parents to think carefully about their wishes in the distribution of tasks and together to make an informed and future-proof distribution. A third reason why women continue to work part-time and part-time is that more work does not always pay. Part of what you earn extra by working more, after all, you are lost again in taxes or lost surcharges, increases that become less when the income rises. This certainly plays a role when children are young, but also affects women's choice of whether or not to work anymore, and thus the long-term impact on them on the labour market, such as career prospects. As a cabinet, we have set ourselves the goal of making work pay more. Mrs Yeşilgöz said the same thing. Let me give you a few concrete examples. Mr Van Ark, the Secretary of State, is in the process of increasing the childcare allowance by 2019. This makes child care cheaper for many people, making it more attractive to work more and combine work and care. Mr Van Dijk specifically asked the question: would it not be a good idea to offer two days of free childcare? Of course, there's no such thing as free. It always has to be paid. However, the cabinet wants to encourage parents to work or continue working with young children, that for example children with a language disadvantage receive extra attention. We have also earmarked money for this in the government agreement.... and that there is also an offer for toddlers of parents who do not work. In practice, this leads to childcare for all toddlers. The number of hours and the quality level vary by type of reception. Mr Van Dijk knows this, of course, as an expert on this point. This is a conscious choice of the cabinet, so that targeted money can be invested in, for example, disadvantaged pupils and broad access to childcare. If a basic provision were to be achieved, that money would no longer be spent in a targeted way. The cabinet doesn't think that's a sensible choice. That is the answer to this particular question. In addition, as a cabinet, we are working on tax reductions that make work pay more, such as better use of the income-dependent combination discount to make more work pay more. In addition, less-earning partners, low-income people, benefit greatly from the increase in the labour cost. All this will be reflected in the Tax Plan of Secretary of State Snel and also in the discussion of my budget for 2019. Then I come to the specific questions on labour shortages. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked for this, as did Mr van Weyenberg. There is indeed a motion by Mr Van Weyenberg to bring an attack plan to the labour market before the summer. Of course, attracting the labour market offers a favourable perspective for workers and young people entering the labour market in the coming years. They generally have a good chance of finding work. The same applies to young women or women who want to get back to work after having a child and are still standing on the sidelines. I am trying, as I say to Mr Van Weyenberg, to send the plan of attack on the labour market to the Chamber before 1 June. Mr Van Dijk specifically asked me to lift a tip of the veil. I don't usually do that, but since it's such an important subject, I'll do it now. I'll mention a few topics. Indeed, we want to make work more rewarding by significantly reducing the burden on labour. I just outlined that. We extend the service of the UVW to job seekers. 70 million is invested to guide long-term benefit recipients to the labour market and thus to provide them with the opportunity to get a job. The link between education and the labour market needs to be strengthened. We do that together with Mrs Van Engelshoven. In addition, specific problems of cramping are addressed within specific sectors. An example is the concern for which Mr De Jonge and colleague Bruins have presented an attack plan. Another example is the education for which Mr Van Engelshoven is responsible. So the plan of attack comes around June 1st. We can then discuss this extensively with the Chamber. Heading towards Mrs. Arissen. I myself was a member of the Temporary Committee on Wide Prosperity. A very nice report from that committee has been published. It's an interesting report, if I say so myself. I advise the members to read it. I very much agree with Mrs Arissen that this is not just about economic growth. It is, of course, about broad prosperity. It's also about happiness, life expectancy, health and nature. It's rightly very broad. But at the same time, of course, participation in employment plays an important role, including in our society. Through taxes, through participation we also pay our collective benefits, we also have money for, for example, a good combination of work and care, for health care, for social security. So I don't think it's a contradiction either. Often such a debate seeks a contradiction. I do not see it, apart from self-determination and the value of working in itself. Of course, the question is whether there is a balance sheet. With this broad concept of prosperity, we have made sure that every year we have an overview showing the position of the Netherlands in all these rankings on different subjects: nature and the environment, participation, happiness, health and so on. I think that would be a good reason for the debate to be so wide-ranging. Mrs Van Engelshoven said I would come back to the questions about basic income. The cabinet has opted for a few basic income experiments in a few specific cities. This concerns the maintenance of benefits in the case of work, the maintenance of part of your benefit if you are going to earn an income. Widely speaking, a basic income, I don't think it's a sensible idea. That often leads to a discussion. Either the income is too low to be really social. That's when you get all kinds of poverty discussions. Either it's too high to pay for it. Then again it has adverse effects on participation, and thus on all the things we have just named: the money for collective provision. I have also had a debate recently with the Committee on Social Affairs, but I always like to mention it. A few specific questions have been asked about labour market discrimination, among others by Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Özütok and Mrs Van den Hul. As you know, the Secretary of State is currently working on the follow-up to the current Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination. The SZW Secretary of State will inform you about this before the summer. I would like to refer to that. There was a specific question from Mrs van den Hul, namely whether the inspection has sufficient impact to address pregnancy discrimination. The Labour Market Discrimination Team of the Inspection SZW was established as of 1 May 2015 and started exploring companies and network organisations. The team asks at each company visit and at every inspection whether and how the theme "pregnancy discrimination" plays or can play and whether policies and facilities are needed in this regard. 80 company visits were carried out in 2015 and 220 inspections were carried out in 2016. With the temporary extension of three inspectors in 2017, the team carried out around 350 inspections in that year. The practice of inspections carried out by the labour market discrimination team shows that most companies implement the improvements requested by the SZW Inspection as a result of a requirement for compliance. The experiences of this team are also specifically taken into account in the labour market discrimination attack plan which the Secretary of State will shortly send to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u67	I have another question about the broad concept of prosperity. It is good that the Minister fully supports this. Is the impact on broad prosperity specifically taken into account in the development of labour market participation policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u68	Wide prosperity is, of course, not just looking at economic growth, but at many more criteria that are relevant to the well-being and prosperity of the Netherlands. Again, I don't think that's a contradiction. It could be a contradiction if you forced people to work. That is not the case in the Netherlands. The policy we are discussing today is not about coercion. Mrs Van Engelshoven has just said that explicitly. So I often think it's not a contradiction. It is precisely the question: how do you find a balance between the different issues that are important to all of us? OECD recently presented a broader index, an international comparison of well-being. It is therefore broader and not just about economic prosperity. That's where the Netherlands scores very well. I think we should be proud of that, too. We're gonna have to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u69	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u70	I am pleased to hear that the Minister feels that there is often no contradiction between the broad concept of prosperity and the policy of participation in employment. But my question was: would the Minister like to assess the impact of all the policies being made in the field of employment participation on broad prosperity? After all, prosperity is so much more than money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u71	Now Mrs Arissen suggests that there is a one-to-one relationship between employment participation and all these broad welfare concepts. I don't think so. As a parliament, it is important to understand more about how we score, not only in terms of economic growth and participation, but also in terms of all the other criteria. That is why there is also the report produced by the Temporary Committee on Wide Prosperity, led by Mr Grashoff. I think that is an interesting and commendable report, even though I myself was a member of that committee. I think it is also very good for Parliament to keep its finger on the pulse, to see whether the Netherlands is really lagging behind or leading the way. If you look at it through the hair of the eye, you can see that the Netherlands is doing very well in many areas. Of course, there is always room for improvement, for making policy even better. As a cabinet, we are working very hard on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u72	Let me come back to the issue of pregnancy discrimination and the impact of the inspection. The Minister indicated that the inspection was given additional impact, but that it was temporary. I would like to ask the Minister whether he has the impression that the additional reports of pregnancy discrimination, which have helped to increase the reporting obligation, can at present be adequately monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u73	During the formation and in the coalition agreement, it was decided to invest significantly more in the capacity of the Inspection SZW: 50 million in structural terms. This was done precisely because the forming parties felt that more attention should be paid to this. Secretary of State Van Ark, who is responsible for this, will soon come to the Chamber in connection with the 50 million added for the capacity of the inspection, or she has already been. I honestly don't know. Does Mr Van Weyenberg know? It's coming to the Chamber in May. It has also been promised that it will be explained what the additional capacity is 50% more; it is therefore a genuinely substantial extension. I can't anticipate that because I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u74	Then we will continue to monitor whether this force is actually being used to tackle pregnancy discrimination. I had also asked the Minister a question about the fairer distribution of parental leave. I haven't gotten an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u75	I tried to stay procedurally away from that, but that failed. That's what the WIEG law is called "partner leave." I'll be in your room shortly to discuss that. We made that choice consciously. It's been paid 100% for two days now. Step one is that it is paid 100% for five days. Then there is the possibility to take five weeks' leave at 70% of the salary. This can be done within six months of the birth of the child. In total, therefore, there is the possibility of taking six weeks' leave. I would like to talk to you about the specific details, the interpretation and the technique when dealing with the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u76	My question was not so much about the WIEG plans. We are, of course, looking at them very positively and optimisticly, as I said in my speech. My question was more about how we ensure that existing measures to take leave are better distributed. We certainly see in certain sectors that men are not facilitated by their employers. At present, twice as many women as men use the opportunities to take parental leave. I also asked about groups that may be out of the boat, such aszzp'ers. Could the Minister briefly reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u77	I have already answered thezzp question extensively a few times with your colleague Gijs van Dijk. That has to do with the WIEG. On the first question I say: yes, it is true, there are great differences between sectors. We have the right to parental leave in the Netherlands, but not in all sectors there is a collective agreement on which compensation is payable. How do we ensure that more attention is paid to this form of leave in order to better manage that combination of work and care? I just said something about the campaign for upcoming parents and parents with young children. How are we going to bring that to the attention of the public? That's one. Two: there is also a debate in Europe on the Work-Life Balance Directive. I just got back from Sofia, which we discussed extensively. I cannot anticipate exactly how that will come into effect. That's gonna take a while, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u78	When it comes to the functioning of the labour market, we see that policies can be unintentionally negative for specific groups. We talked about young women today. A few days ago it was about 55-plussers, who also experienced problems. For example, there are people with a migration background and people with disabilities who experience all kinds of problems in the labour market. Something goes wrong in the operation of our policy. My question was to look at interculturality in policy making as well. Take a look at that approach. This is already happening in emancipation policy. Your colleague knows all about that. Are you prepared to include this approach in your approach to the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u79	Honestly, I don't understand the question. This morning new figures from the UWV came about unemployment in the country. It has fallen to 3.9%, the lowest rate in ten years. Fortunately, there are again a lot of people who can come from benefits to work. When it comes to participation rates, including women, we come from a long way and we see that we have really made a catch-up in recent years. Of course there are problems in the labour market; I have regular debates with your Chamber. I am thinking of young people, of elderly people who are on the sidelines for a long time. In the coalition agreement we have included policies to deal with this, but the Netherlands, of course, has a very well-functioning labour market with very low unemployment. We should be proud of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u80	But it is a labour market which is very discriminatory for specific groups. And that was exactly my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u81	I agree with Mrs Özütok immediately. That is why I sent a letter to the Chamber three weeks ago on further integration into the labour market. That letter announces policy. How can we ensure that Turkish and Moroccan Dutch people of the second and third generation, but also status holders who are just in the integration course from the asylum seekers centre, have a better chance of finding a job? That starts with learning the language. This starts with the combination of work and language learning. I recently sent that letter to the Chamber. Soon we'll be debating it in an AO. A question remained raised by Mrs Yeşilgöz on the ESC opinion and the climate transition. There is a danger of a shortage. We can see that, too. That is why it is so very important that we make sure that the unexploited workforce is better identified. Hence the attack on the cut. We see that the climate transition, or rather the energy transition, also leads to shifts in the sectors. In some sectors, jobs are lost, such as gas extraction or coal-fired power stations, and in others, such as solar panels, new jobs are created. One of the challenges is to ensure that people do not fall between shore and ship, but are given opportunities through retraining, retraining or retraining to start work in the other sector. The ESC opinion was presented this morning. I think that's a good wake-up call, a good point of attention. Eric Wiebes is working on the climate agreement and I, as Minister for Social Affairs, can also present the labour market table to ensure that these future developments in supply and demand in the labour market are more closely linked. But the point is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That saves me a second term, because I can now thank both directors for their answers. It would be very nice if we could look at the women and the girls just as specifically. We are already short and if you look at the training courses where there is now a lot of investment in technology and in the jobs for the future, you can see three girls walking in on hundreds of boys. That's too bad, too. If we are going to look very specifically at those jobs for the energy transition, let us be aware that girls do not choose quickly. And if they choose, they don't choose a follow-up study or a job in engineering. Anyway, Mr President, I hear that is good for everyone and therefore not a second term for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u83	The Minister Van Engelshoven has just paid attention to this in her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u85	I think that's it. Or did I forget something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u86	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, no second term either?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u87	How nice of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u88	The Minister of Emancipation just referred me to the Minister of Social Affairs. I have asked a number of questions after all. I have indeed discussed this with the Minister for Emancipation before, but I would also like to refer it to the Minister for Social Affairs. The cabinet considers financial independence to be important. And rightly so! Then, in this letter, it says that the assistance is not really spacious and that you will have just enough. It gives little room for manoeuvre and if you have care for children, which is true for many women, it is, quote: "not enough."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u89	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u90	How am I supposed to reconcile greater financial independence and inadequate assistance for mothers with children, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u91	Very specific. In the government agreement, for example, the government announced a substantial increase in the childcare allowance, child benefit and the child-related budget. From my point of view, I say 750 million in structural terms, especially in order to give families with young children more financial resources. In the broader purchasing power picture, I have just said something about the employment discount and the IACK. That is precisely where the focus is to reduce the step from a benefit to a job by increasing income growth. We do that to encourage people with benefits to get a job. The situation on the labour market has also been given every reason to do so. Employers are slowly jumping over workers. That is good news and let us just emphasise it. If you look at the purchasing power figures in a broad sense, you can see that in the predictions for all years there is a plus in purchasing power, also for people with benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u92	Combating poverty trap and increasing the child-related budget. That is very good, but it is clearly stated here by the government that the assistance for mothers with children is not sufficient. That's a sharp statement. Not enough! Then I say fix that or it's a bit for the stage. These measures, which you have just mentioned, are very nice, but in fact they state that the social minimum is too low. I'd love it if the government would handle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u93	Then I'm going to repeat myself. I have mentioned a whole series of measures which allow us to reserve a great deal of money for the income situation at the bottom and for people with young children. Those measures are in the coalition agreement to improve their position. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u94	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg. Speaking time is 1 minute and 30 seconds, including tabling motions. I'd start with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u95	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their response and the answer to the questions. I very much look forward to the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination for all kinds of reasons, including the issues we are discussing today. I have two motions. The first reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the early years following graduation young women already work part-time jobs far more often than young men, up to almost three quarters of young women with MBO qualifications;]] [[noting that international studies show that part-time work has a negative impact on the chances of promotion and career prospects, and that the SCP study shows that there are nowhere in Europe the differences in working hours between young women and men are as large as in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas the cabinet is an ambition to break the self-evident nature of the current pattern;]] [[Whereas it would be good if young women in the labour market were aware of the long-term consequences of making the choice;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the explanations for and effects of part-time employment in the first job on the career perspective;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the results of this study can be made accessible to young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Özütok, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u96	My second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that about half of the start-ups in the labour market would prefer to work more hours in part-time jobs, both men and women;]] [[noting that men may have more hours with their employer than women over time;]] [[noting that the latest figures of the SCP show that almost two thirds of workers in the education and care sectors have applied for an increase in working time, less than half of which have been fully met;]] [[Whereas there are many women working in these sectors and there is a shortage of staff, which will continue to increase in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to include actions in the Action Plan for the health and education sectors to ensure that workers are able to work more hours both at the start of and during their careers if desired,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Geluk-Poortvliet, Mr Özütok and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for their first-term reply. I share the view of the Minister for Emancipation that the present cut sometimes also offers an opportunity. In light of that, a motion on boys. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that boys are still underrepresented in the choice of education and training courses;]] [[Whereas the objectives of emancipation policy are to ensure a more balanced distribution of study choices between boys and girls;]] [[calls on the government to support initiatives to interest more boys in care or education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Özütok and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u98	Very much in favour of more attention for boys, of course. What exactly does the author mean by "support"? What could fall under that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u99	In my view, this is something that the Minister himself has indicated in the first term. Initiatives such as that of Girl's Day, an initiative that has just come out of the field, of people reporting. But if I know the VVD well, I assume that the colleague here also refers to the question within which frameworks. I have tabled this motion from the existing frameworks of emancipation policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u100	Thank you. Or did you have another supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u101	Mrs Van den Hul does indeed know the VVD very well. I was looking for any cover if it cost money. So if I can hear "frames" as "coverage" and then read that in the motion, then I know where it might come down if it costs money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u102	Yes. I have one more motion on the equal distribution between men and women, which I mentioned in my speech. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that women use parental leave more often than men;]] [[considers that both partners should have the opportunity to take on care tasks;]] [[noting that in many sectors there is still a taboo on the taking of parental leave by men;]] [[calls on the government, by means of a public campaign in sectors where this taboo lives, to promote parental leave for men,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u103	What should that boost look like? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u104	You can read that as "inspire."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u105	Okay. We're here in the House of Representatives. It's about motions, and those are appeals to the rulers. How are Mr Koolmees or the minister of OCW going to inspire? What is the way in which you intend to do that? I really don't get it. Will you make it concrete for me, please? It's a bit of motion for the stage. It's also shining what we're doing here. Look at me shining. Now, make it concrete. How are the rulers going to concreteize all that inspiration? Are they like prayer meetings or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u106	For that, you need to be with another group, which unfortunately is not in our midst today. That qualification you put on my plate, I'd be happy to leave it to you. This concerns the Shining and Motions for the Bühne. You ask me to specify what promoting a fairer distribution when taking parental leave means. I am talking about public campaigns that will ensure that more men will make that choice in sectors where that is not the case right now. I mentioned two very fine examples of previous campaigns in my speech. I don't know if you recognized them: a smart girl is prepared for her future and a real guy irons his own shirt. Those two campaigns are already back from a few generations, namely my mother's generation. I think it's time to give new generations of boys, our men of the future, new role models. As far as I am concerned, this includes public campaigns that share that image with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u107	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u108	Don't worry, I iron my own shirts, not because I like it so much, but because I have to. That doesn't have much to do with the campaign at the time. Do you really believe that this kind of expensive, intensive campaigns really do something in people's minds, so that you're right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u109	If I had not believed that, of course I would not have tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u110	That makes it a little sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u112	Mr. Chairman. I had a sharp motion about fighting... What are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u113	I see you have no motion on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u114	Mr. Chairman. Surprise is an important aspect of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u115	It worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u116	I had a very sharp motion on the fight against pregnancy discrimination, but from a reliable source I have heard that the cabinet is picking it up. If the cabinet confirms that later, then I am completely reassured. I'd like to make a preliminary announcement. Mrs Arissen is about to submit two brilliant motions to which I was allowed to put my name. These motions concern the fight against what I call the 'ratrace' of the 24/7 economy, if I may say so. Removing barriers to making women work is absolutely good. I said that myself, but we have to be careful that the balance does not go to the other side. We also need to think about future scenarios, such as robotisation, where large groups of people might be on the sidelines because there is no more work for them. That is what Mrs Arissen's motions are about. The tension is rising, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u117	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party. We're very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u118	Many thanks for this beautiful introduction by Mr Van Dijk. Mr President, I have three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas "wide concept of prosperity" means that prosperity revolves around much more than just money, namely health, living in a green, safe environment, enough time to take care of children or elderly people, study or volunteer;]] [[calls on the government to specifically assess the impact on broad prosperity in the Netherlands in the development of employment participation policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that emancipation policy should not aim for higher workload but for an equivalent workload;]] [[noting that the purpose of this minister is that "all citizens can make their lives as they wish."]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities for shorter working weeks in the light of the broad concept of prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arissen, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-287]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arissen, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u119	My final motion is next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas we live in a time when we can produce and organize what we need with less and less human strength;]] [[Considers that part-time work leaves room for other valuable time-frames such as care and volunteering;]] [[calls on the Government not to discourage part-time work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-289]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors very much for answering all the questions and for their reactions. I do have a motion on this discrimination. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas labour discrimination affects people who are disadvantaged in several aspects of the labour market;]] [[considers that combined discrimination requires a specific solution;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Action Plan specific plans to combat discrimination based on several aspects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u121	I thank the Minister for answering the questions. Minister Van Engelshoven has found a different translation of the word "emancipation" than I have. She began her reply by saying: 'this is self-determination'. That's the word I always have a little trouble with. For me, self-determination is "I want what I do." I said at the beginning: for me emancipation is equality. That's how the CDA sees it. Emancipation is that people freely make their choices in relation to others. But we'll probably agree on that. The Minister has come a long way to meet me when she says that I think she says that it is very important to have money and work independently. If you as a young man do not remain alone, then you can also become one day at a time. Then it's very important that you get your life together. In that sense, I very much agree with the Minister. That is why this debate is very important, to send out the signal to young girls, but also to boys: boys and girls, watch your case, for now and for later, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u123	I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact that I am standing here now has to do with me making seven out of eight motions and Mrs Van Engelshoven making one. So it is again unfairly divided in the world. I have to be careful saying things like this! In the motion in part No. 283 by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mrs Yeşilgöz, Mr Özütok, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Jasper van Dijk are asked to "examine the explanations and effects of working part-time in the first job on the career perspective" and "how the results of this research can be made clear to young people." I'd like to give this motion a Chamber of Appeal. The motion in part No. 284 calls on the Government to "include action in the action plan for the health and education sectors to ensure that workers are able to work more hours both at the start and during their careers if desired." This subject is indeed reflected in the plan of attack. I must point out, however, that, of course, in the end, the directors responsible for health care or education themselves are responsible for the policies that are being pursued there. I can't go in there. But the subject certainly comes back to the attack plan cramped on the labour market. If I can explain it with this explanation, with this appreciation towards Mr Van Weyenberg, then I will give the motion judgment Chamber, otherwise not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u125	That's fine. The idea of this action plan is precisely that the cabinet is looking at what it can do here. I think that this Minister can say to the trade ministers that some employers' umbrella organisations can be a bit shaken up to make sure that this kind of request is just more often accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u126	Okay, next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u127	That is to be seen, but thank you very much for your judgment, Chamber. The motion in part No. 285 does Mrs Van Engelshoven. The motion in part No. Mrs van den Hul and Mrs Özütok have asked the government to "encourage a public campaign in sectors where this is taboo, to encourage parental leave for men." As I pointed out in the first term, we are already campaigning on the combination of work and care, and the importance of a balanced division of labour and care between men and women. In this campaign, we also encourage partners to discuss this with each other and also to discuss it with the supervisor at work. Attention to parental leave by fathers will also be included in this campaign. I don't want to go this far to throw away another separate campaign, because then you get too many signals. But if I can explain the motion like that, then the verdict is Chamber and otherwise it isn't. I see Mrs. Van den Hul nodding. Then it will be part of the existing public campaign that we are already conducting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u128	Yes, Mrs. Van den Hul? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u129	The motion in part No. 287 calls on the government "to specifically assess the impact on broad prosperity in the Netherlands in the development of labour market participation policies." I find the wording of the operative part complicated here, I say honestly. Of course, in terms of employment participation policies and the labour market in the broad sense, we are not just looking at the number of hours people work. We also think about the impact it has on society in the broad sense. The operative part of this motion suggests that we should always consider this specifically in all areas of broad prosperity. I do not think that is possible. It is interesting, however, that in that broad welfare monitor, which is sent to your Chamber on Prince's Day, you should consider the direction these subjects take. But I find this motion too compelling and too choosy, and I therefore advise against it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 288 calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities for shorter working weeks in the light of the broad concept of prosperity. Actually, my picture is different. We are dealing with a situation that is becoming tight in the labour market. Employers have unfulfilled vacancies. People are still on the sidelines. There is an untapped workforce of people on the benefit. There are people with a distance from the labour market, such as people in the VIA letters concerning further integration into the labour market, people with a non-Western background. This time offers opportunities to lead those people to the labour market. This gives a chance for a job, and thus income improvement and in a broad sense an improvement. This motion will sort out any policy for shorter working weeks. The government does not intend to do that, and that is why I advise against this motion. I have the same problem with the motion in part No. 289, which calls on the government not to discourage part-time work. We do not have a policy aimed at discouraging part-time work. We are pursuing policies to make more work pay, as I just indicated in my first term. Policies aimed at discouraging part-time work do not apply to the cabinet, and I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 290 calls on the government to include separate plans in the Action Plan for combating discrimination based on several aspects. As I have just said, Secretary of State Van Ark is now preparing the update of the labour market discrimination attack plan. So it's really about her policy area. That will be sent to your room shortly. I'm sure this is in there, but I honestly don't know. I have to check whether the various aspects of Mrs Özütok are really a separate part of that, but in a broader sense, of course, it is an attack plan aimed at combating discrimination in the labour market in a broad sense. But, frankly, I cannot judge this very specific point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u130	Will it help if the Minister has the opportunity to look at this again with his colleague and to inform us about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u131	If that's possible in a light form, I'd like to see if this is part of the plan, in a very short note. It is the responsibility of the Secretary of State, who is working hard on it. Is it "multiple aspects" than the combination of, for example, background, gender and that sort of thing? In any case, I am going to put a very brief note to that effect, and I will give an opinion on the motion because I cannot judge it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u132	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u133	Then I'll hold on to my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u134	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (30420, No. 290), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 290/1999. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u135	Then I have one more point that I need to correct. I had just said that the 50 million extra from the government agreement for additional capacity for the inspection SZW was coming soon. This will come to your room in the autumn of 2018. I had just mistakenly said "before the summer," but it's gonna be autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u136	Yes. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u137	Perhaps I have a point of order on the motion for a resolution on item No. 285.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u138	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u139	The Minister says: we are actually already running this public campaign, and that is why the motion is at the discretion of the Chamber. But how does that work? Because that motion is already being carried out. Isn't he redundant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u140	If it's unnecessary...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u141	You're not allowed to do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u142	No. Then it's "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u143	Just for the record, Mr. Chairman. There's already a campaign going on. Mrs van den Hul has drawn attention to a specific aspect, namely parental leave for fathers. On this point, I have promised that I would take this as a point of attention in the campaign... not as a separate campaign in addition. With this explanation, I would like to leave the motion to the House's judgement. If that is not possible, I should say "dissuade" because it is existing policy. But I think the accent is a valid point, which I'd like to take with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u144	Then I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. Then there is a motion from Mrs van den Hul, Mrs Özütok and Mr Van Weyenberg on this point. 285. The Minister of Education is going to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u145	Thank you, Mr President. As has already been said in the debate, we will of course wholeheartedly support good initiatives to encourage boys to choose sectors for which too few boys are currently choosing. I say to Mrs Yeșilgöz that support can take shape in many variants, of course within the frameworks that apply. I would like to say the following to Mrs Luck. You and I may occasionally choose other words, but I agree perfectly with your translation of "emancipation policy." I am going to read again in the Acts how you put it so beautifully; I think it is a mock-on translation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u146	And your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u147	The verdict on the motion is, of course, Chamber judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u148	Okay, we just wanted to know. Thank you. I thank the directors and thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-13.u149	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. Of course, I would like to thank the stenography service and the people who have followed this debate in one way or another and close the sitting.
