ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, including the budget of the Infrastructure Fund. We only have the first term of the Chamber today. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State. Of course, a warm welcome to the Members. There are 16 speakers and even more Members of Parliament are present here and there. Welcome aboard! Of course, welcome to the people in the public gallery here and to the people who follow this debate in a different way. We are about to start with the first speaker, Mr Van Aalst, speaking on behalf of the PVV Group, but first I would like to say that we have a maiden speech today. It is held by Mrs Teunissen. I will repeat it by then, but Mrs Teunissen may not be interrupted. We wish her every success in that. I would like to share with you that the arrangement of work and the swearing-in of one of our new colleagues will take place at 2.15 p.m. this afternoon. This means that we will suspend this sitting by 1.30 p.m. or 1.45 p.m. before lunch. After lunch, the arrangement of work and the swearing-in will follow. With this I think I have made my household announcements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I'm gonna make it to 1:45. That's gonna be okay. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has warned about it more often: if we do not deal with the growing traffic problems, the whole of the Netherlands will turn into one major traffic infarct. Let me call it "traffic infarct," because if I take the word "file monster" back in my mouth, I'll get the VVD sample back on my roof. So I'm not gonna do that. Think of us, the PVV, as the heart surgeon instead of the dragon killer. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is there and looks at it. The EUR 2 billion extra spent on this period is nothing more than a tip. The amount is not even close to the 6.4 billion saved on infrastructure by Rutte II. This is mopping with the tap open. The PVV wants to invest instead of cutting back on the lifeblood of our economy. To begin with, the PVV proposes to spend an additional EUR 1 billion on infrastructure for the benefit of our main roads. Think of the maintenance of the works of art, which is sometimes absent because of a lack of money. Think of upgrading peak lanes, which also involve costs. The cabinet now indicates that it wishes to open all the peaks permanently. It's a good first step, but we're not gonna make it. It must be about tackling the bottlenecks, and this means, among other things, widening the road. In any case, there will have to be more asphalt. Mr. Chairman. The shopping list is long. As soon as the resources become available, we'll all make a positive impression on them. The PVV proposal is to remove the billion euro structuralally from the BBSO innovation scheme. Businesses get a tax advantage when their staff is doing their job in an innovative way. This cabinet gives an example of companies working on, for example, flying cars, sustainable prams and energy-generating dance floors. Our carpenters, plumbers and masons have nothing to gain from this tax advantage. That discount is swallowed up by the big entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. The PVV is committed to innovation, but will always be critical of government-driven innovations. After all, the government is supposed to get away from the market. And since when does the government decide what the market needs to innovate? Does this cabinet really think that there are not enough billions of euros available in the free market to carry out this kind of research? I encourage the rulers to visit the research departments of international technology giants. It'll open their eyes. Look at the big companies, like Samsung, that spend more than 50 billion euros a year on research and development. And that's why the PVV calls for this money not to be tossed here, because we really need it on the road. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch entrepreneur will benefit much more from the fight against congestion. That is where the great damage lies: an economy that suffers from its own success because everything is stuck. We're talking about a land flooded by traffic. Moreover, the group that is helped by this is much wider than just the entrepreneurs. Most people experience traffic jams on a regular or daily basis. Social costs have increased considerably since 2013, to EUR 3.7 billion per year. Until 2022, the additional journey time may increase by 28%. And we saw higher predictions at KiM. This is not only due to the cuts in infrastructure, but also because we are becoming increasingly mobile. In particular, mobility needs among over 50 people have increased. As with the rest of the Netherlands, this is mainly done by car. And that will stay for a while, because the alternative of the train will become less attractive next year. On average, changes in the VAT system will increase the cost of a ticket for the train by almost 5%; a significant increase compared to recent years. The studies are crystal clear: without radical countermeasures, sample files become the new normal. Attracting the world economy is precisely why all the countries around us decide to invest heavily in infrastructure. But infrastructure is still not a priority for this cabinet. After all, the expenditure ceiling was agreed at the beginning of the cabinet period. It is madness that this cabinet admits that the IenW budget available for main roads does not grow with economic development. In short, if the economy is going well, then there is no additional investment in infrastructure. Why are economic growth and the increase in the number of road users not sufficient grounds for increasing this expenditure ceiling? There's gotta be another way. Let the asphalt machine drive as fast as our economy and our mobility needs. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Mr. Chairman. The PVV also wants to see more commitment to the safety of our public transport. Last week we saw again Qbuzz bus drivers boycotting the stops near the asylum seekers' centers in Ter Apel. According to Qbuzz's works council, asylum seekers have been causing nuisance for a long time. They enter the bus without paying, threaten bus drivers, spit on passengers and disrupt the timetable. People are getting smashed into the windows, spit on people. Something always happens on line 73. Qbuzz's management also informs the bus drivers of their full understanding. In the past, it has been tried to put security guards on the bus to keep the thugs in line. That's a fatal failure. The destruction and threats continue. That is why there is only one answer: again these people from public transport, zero tolerance. Is the Secretary of State prepared to hang out with her colleagues from JenV to impose a ban on this equipment, and to strictly enforce it? Mr. Chairman. At the initiative of the PVV, the committee visited the United Kingdom to see how it was regulated there on the track. In the United Kingdom, you still have the old-fashioned railway police, who act with knowledge. That profit pays off right away. For example, if we look at suicidal treatment or other problems on the track, the British railway police release the track twice as quickly as, for example, the Dutch Infrastructure Service. By putting the police station on or at the train station, the British railway police can deal with insecurity and crime much faster on and around the track. Therefore, the PVV thinks it is a good idea to give the track a special position within the police department. You don't do that by letting the railway no longer belong to the domain of the Infrastructure Service, because it doesn't specialize in rail, but is flexible in using its agents for road, water and aviation. Call instead a "Service Railway Police" into life. Work with agents specializing in rail, station them at large stations and ensure close cooperation with carriers and with the railway infrastructure manager. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate what a "Service Railway Police" can bring us, and especially, of course, in the area of security? And if not, how does it intend to make the same improvements that the introduction of the railway police would bring? The traveller deserves a safe public transport. An SMS or app service for train passengers to report nuisances on the train will help. We have also seen this in the United Kingdom. Can the Secretary of State indicate when the traveller can finally expect the roll-out of this, given the Van Aalst motion adopted on this text message service? The effects of this are very much to be expected. Mr. Chairman. The HSL-South remains a bottomless well. The PVV has always opposed this money-consuming project. But now that the line is there, how are we ever going to make this billion-dollar investment back? Unlike some other parties, we do not see anything in additional investments. On the contrary, we want the return, not the debt, to rise as quickly as possible. Given that the efficiency of the HSL-South is insufficient and is expected to remain insufficient, the PVV proposes, as mentioned earlier, to investigate whether the use of freight trains, for example, on the hsl provides a solution. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the possibilities and consequences of using rail freight transport on top of the current use of passenger transport in the HSL-South? And is this going to increase the return? The PVV is holding the finger on the wrist. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we like to worry about problems that we have not caused. Our air has never been as clean as it is today and yet this cabinet is the emergency clock and comes with the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme. Not only is the panic for nothing, it also has a big price on it. Or, for example, take the plastic waste. People at home are getting beaten up with the message that they're contributing to the plastic soup in the Pacific. And what does it turn out to be? At the request of the PVV, the Ministry has determined that our contribution to the plastic soup is probably negligible. You're hearing it right: negligible. And that is what we must base our policies on. This cabinet also talks about our residual waste as if we were facing a disaster. It's like air quality stuff for nothing. Over the years, Dutch households have been producing so much less waste that we are now structurally importing foreign waste to burn here. That's not what the kids learn at school. That's not gonna be on the left-wing news. These facts do not fit into the green madness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u4	A question from Mr Laçin. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u5	I would like to return to the clean air agreement that Mr Van Aalst mentioned. In the AO Living environment just before the autumn recess we also talked about this. It was concluded by Milieudefensie that 12,000 people die prematurely each year and tens of thousands of people become chronically ill every year due to exposure to fine dust and nitrogen dioxide. Mr Van Aalst had made a commitment to read the report in the recess. I wonder if he did. And two: does he really not draw any conclusions from the report and its conclusions? You can't say that our air is so clean, but it kills 12,000 people every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u6	I have indeed made a commitment to Mr Laçin to read the report, or at least to go through it, which was the exact undertaking. I even read it for him, but it didn't excite me. My point is this. If it were, and if we look at the policy formulated here by this cabinet, and if we ask for efficiency objectives, then we have to agree that the policy we are now facing is not going to contribute anything to it. Mr Laçin must agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u7	Second question by Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u8	The current policy has indeed contributed. We have had several debates on this. Your position on, for example, environmental zones is well known. But it's the future that matters to me. Does the PVV think that despite the shocking figures in the SP, we should not do anything and take it for granted that 12,000 people die prematurely each year due to exposure to particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide? Does the PVV think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u9	No, everyone here is for clean air, but with the idea that we need to link clean air to a whole agenda of the Netherlands on the left, we do not agree. We note that what is now being done by the cabinet is fine. We have a number of bottlenecks to solve and the cabinet is working on it, but to set up a whole agenda now because it is a tragedy here is total nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u10	For the debate, it is important to know what the PVV is like now. The PVV says there's a green madness. Is there or is there not a problem with our air quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u11	We have found that air quality has never been better. We've done a hell of a lot of things about it. So putting together a whole agenda for it now is totally unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u12	I note that there is no problem with air quality. Then my second question: is there a problem with plastics in the water in the Netherlands and in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u13	I have just indicated that the Netherlands is going to recreate a whole agenda to tackle, for example, the plastic soup. But does the plastic soup come from us? No, it's from other countries in the world. Should we solve that problem in other countries of the world where they are making a mess of it, where according to the left-wing agendas everything has to go there, the Netherlands is the most polluting and everything has to go to the other side? Are we supposed to put together a whole agenda and make our people bleed for it? Is that what the gentleman of the PvdA wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u14	Your third question, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u15	I'm being addressed here, so I'd like to respond to that. In finding that the PVV is very committed to the fact that there is really nothing going on when it comes to air quality and plastic soup, I now note from Mr Van Aalst's answers to my questions that this is actually the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u16	It is up to the PvdA itself to conclude what she thinks. I'm fine with that, but you shouldn't twist my words. We have found that our contribution to, for example, plastic soup is negligible. Do we have to make millions of dollars for a beautiful agenda that doesn't contribute anything? But we often see it in this cabinet that very often things are rigged that are totally negligible. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to focus on the really urgent problems, such as the clean-up of asbestos roofs and the frequent abuses in the recycling of artificial turf mats, as we have seen this morning. Or, if she likes to pursue structural policies, she can look for resources on the budget to tackle the underemployment among our ILT people. Is the Secretary of State prepared to refute the doom scenarios for air quality, residual waste and plastic waste once and for all? If so, does she agree with the PVV that it is time to base environmental policy solely on facts? Mr. Chairman. The modal shift on the way to the water was for a long time one of the Ministry's stickhorses, but now the Minister is only talking about countering the reverse modal shift. She wants to prevent more ships from being replaced by trucks. We are lagging behind the facts, because despite the fine words, more and more thresholds are being put in place at the moment that make life difficult for the skippers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u17	A question from Mrs Kröger. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u18	Does Mr Van Aalst deny that 12,000 premature deaths from unhealthy air are a fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u19	No, you didn't hear me say anything about the 12,000. I told my colleague from GroenLinks last time that I was talking about the policy that should contribute to a cleaner air. And I have found with my colleague from GroenLinks that the policy, including the environmental zones, only causes more victims. So I also asked her: Does the Netherlands want more victims from unhealthy air?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u20	You are going to continue your speech, because you are not going to ask questions again. Then you challenge the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u21	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Everyone has a sufficient number of interruptions and I go about my own words, so I think there is nothing going on. Mr. Chairman. For minor offences, the highest price is charged in inland waterway transport in terms of fine. The new curfews at bridges and locks stretch the sailing time and there are far too few safe berths in the Netherlands where you can safely build your cargo and home. That sense of insecurity is enhanced by the built-in trigger, called the AIS. Didn't you agree that the ship's location wouldn't be shared by the government with third parties? However, there are now several websites in the air that share live locations with everyone. The criminals squeeze their hands, because they can see exactly when a ship is mooring. All these points need to be changed. As far as PVV is concerned, we need to accelerate now so that the modal shift can still take place. So increases the capacity of bridges and locks, increases the number of berths and increases the privacy of the skippers. In short, we should not only work on the earning model, but we should also try to make life on the water more attractive. Then the cargo will follow itself. Mr. Chairman. This minister thinks he's doing a good job of paying a truck tax. That way, she's still going to force the modal shift. What this cabinet overlooks is that the additional cost of EUR 600 million will be immediately transferred to the consumer. This means that messages will be even more expensive, not only because of the VAT increase but also because of the increased transport costs. Mr. Chairman. The PVV strongly opposes the truck tax and calls on the transport sector to do the same. The Ministry sells sweet sandwiches by stating that the proceeds will flow back to the transporters. Where are the guarantees? We don't see them. Moreover, commercial and production companies that own trucks are not mentioned at all. What's the deal with that? Are they also entitled to this flow-back scheme? And can the Minister promise that the full proceeds will return? Or is some of this going to be swallowed up by additional equipment costs? Mr. Chairman. The economy is in full swing and mobility needs are growing. We should be proud of that. And so the government is committed to facilitating that mobility. The PVV wants to add EUR 1 billion in structural terms to the budget for main roads. That gives us more room to make up for the late maintenance, to permanently open up the peaks and to tackle the bottlenecks by finally building more asphalt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u22	A question from Mr Paternotte. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr Van Aalst is very opposed to the tax on lorries, but you have just said that it is a problem that there is too little transport of lorries to the water and, I think, you also recognise with me that the emissions of lorries are huge at the moment. So do you have any ideas of your own to ensure that there is more water transport from the truck and that we can reduce the emissions of lorries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u24	I think I've just explained very extensively how that modal shift should go if you make it attractive to transport goods in a different way. We can do it by rail. We can do it by water. And sometimes transport is just the best solution. So I think if you just facilitate that very well, which we're not doing right now, there's nothing going on. Then the market just goes its way and things that are about rail or over water, also go over water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr Paternotte's second question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u26	The very best way to make it more attractive is to make one more expensive and make the other cheaper, as we do now with taxes. The tax on consumption is rising and the tax on labour is falling, making work cheaper and more jobs created. So that's what we're doing with the truck tax. You're actually making the truck a lot more expensive. You put that money into sustainability. And that makes the alternatives cheaper. Do you even believe in such an approach? Or do you say, "You should never ever levy taxes"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u27	The brilliant constructions of D66 to make everything more expensive because it is going to solve problems are of course total nonsense. We now see only increases in the burden for these citizens. So it's total bullshit that we're gonna get a modal shift there. I don't think it's gonna get anything for the motorist or the common man. We note that this cabinet merely ensures that prices go up, that we have less to spend and that everything becomes more expensive. So we don't believe in that at all. Mr. Chairman. The file monster wasn't just knocked out of the field. That is why we must also work on the modal shift from road to rail. Then public transport must be safe. Then we must leave rail freight carriers the room to use our railways, such as the HSL-South. The modal shift from the road to the water can also reduce congestion, but we now need to invest in our inland waterway transport. Facilitate our skippers with good waterways and 24-hour lock control. Mr. Chairman. The ideas are here. The money's here. We only lack the political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Ziengs. He is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. I was just looking at the clock. That's where all kinds of moves took place, but I think it looks good now. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the budget of Infrastructure and Water State for 2019. I will deal with the sections of this budget for which Secretary of State Van Veldhoven is developing and implementing policy. My colleague, Remco Dijkstra, will deal with the issues covered by the Minister. We have had a lot of committee debates and plenary debates on many areas of responsibility that this budget is intended to address. I shall therefore try to confine myself to the areas of attention we have debated to a lesser extent in recent months. This weekend I was a guest at a party where of course it was also about politics. When I tried to explain what we were going to discuss next week, I was pretty quick to think that the questioners were going to drop out. You're gonna be pushed right into the facts for a while. When you talk about rail, public transport, nuclear safety and air quality as spokesperson Infrastructure and Water State, you tend to get bogged down in some kind of professional jargon. I brought up the ERTMS. When I explained that it was the European Rail Traffic Management System, everyone cut off and it was said: we'll have another beer and we'll talk about something else. That is quite logical, because it must of course be about the users, the inhabitants of the Netherlands who go to work or their family or who go out for a day. They simply want to be sure that we politicians have regulated the preconditions for this. You must be able to travel safely without too much delay. There must be clear communication on how to get from A to B. If something goes wrong, there must also be clear communication about how to travel best. It's about clean and safe transportation. We have to name it when it goes well. We must congratulate ourselves if things are to be done properly and transport is to be done properly. We should also be proud of those people who, as drivers, drivers, pilots, captains, or in any position, contribute to the provision of transport and freight flows. We have everything we need to keep our country beautiful and accessible. The roads are better than in our neighbouring countries. We are always working on new solutions to combat traffic jams. And we are known in the world for our great knowledge of transport and logistics. If there are more inhabitants, more people must be able to move. Whether by car, by train, by bus or by bike, we release everyone. In growing urban areas cars are more often stuck, while in shrinking areas traffic pressures are decreasing. In urban areas, therefore, more trains, trams and buses must be used, while in rural areas, the local bus is increasingly available for customised public transport, such as the bell bus and the regional taxi. And then the heading of innovation. This, of course, brings about major changes, in which we want to give new technologies ample scope for action. But the advent of new techniques is no reason to sit back and wait. That is why we are making more money available for our infrastructure, as was read in the coalition agreement. That's the money the VVD wants to spend well. Criticism must lead us to improve that. Sign problems and approach them in an adult manner. Well thought out and take everyone into that trial. I'll start with the ERTMS. This is a system in which trains can be used more efficiently because, among other things, they can drive closer together and are connected and communicate with each other through technical ingenuity. Where is a train on the line at what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr. Chairman. Isn't Mr Ziengs also concerned about increasing the train and bus ticket as a result of the VAT increase? Isn't that how we drive people away from public transport into the car?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u31	I can say two things about it. There have been investigations that have shown that this is not the case. Nor do we worry here when the drivers' salaries go up. I would, of course, like to give them that, but that also raises the price of a ticket. We never have that discussion here either, so the VAT issue, which is also mentioned in the government agreement that this measure should provide money for reducing labour costs, does not necessarily have to have an effect on the train ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u32	I'm gonna give everyone a good raise. I also give people who don't have a salary an increase. But that is not what this debate is about. We have seen that the NS is concerned about the cost increase in this respect. People are going to make more money, which we would like to give them, but there is going to be a VAT increase. The cabinet wants as many people as possible in public transport, but this measure is contrary to the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u33	I refer again to the research that has been done, but if the NS is so concerned about this, then the paper tickets for which the NS is currently asking for a euro may be offered free of charge. That also saves a lot in the price. But that's not what the NS is about. The Secretary of State has already given a detailed explanation in the last debate in the committee. Much has been said about it by the various parties. We have also read that the task after 2013 is a firm one to make this system operational. For the VVD it is very clear. It is our preference to join the countries around us with such a system and thus to be able to set the pace. Future Cabinets can fill that in. Perhaps the Secretary of State could comment on the costs that have been foreseen, especially in the years after 2030, which were the subject of some tumult, including in the media. Then the second point: ProRail. In the coalition agreement, we decided to make this an independent administrative body. It is now a legal entity of which the State is wholly shareholder. We are allowed to regularly see that the current ProRail director is speaking to the media without being in prison. Moreover, I have never experienced that the management of Rijkswaterstaat gives an unsalted opinion on the operation of the company, but here it seems to be customary to do so. Whether an instance unilaterally moves towards placing concrete blocks on unguarded consideration. I understand the impotence of ProRail and the noble desire to close those transitions, but this is not the way. We should not want to ignore local democracy. So it's not so crazy that politics wants to get a little more grip on ProRail. In previous debates, we also gave the Secretary of State the preconditions for this. The effects of this transformation should not lead to increases in user fees or in employee pension provision. The threat of State aid was also fully addressed. Here, the proposed solution seems to be permitted. The Secretary of State seems to have succeeded for the time being. As I understand it, the European Commission has indicated that it is not against this in advance. Well, the VVD will continue to follow this dossier carefully, because it should be 100% sure. The aim must be to increase the grip from the Ministry, under the direction of the Minister and the Secretary of State. Then there's rail freight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u34	Before you do that, there is a question from Mr Van Aalst. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u35	I thought, "When's the Zbo coming?" We have already had a few exchanges of views on it. We have indeed seen it: the transformation of ProRail into a Zbo is in the coalition agreement. No one understands why. This is from the tube of the VVD. No one's happy about it. As we have seen before with this coalition agreement and with this cabinet, there are sometimes things that no one knows where they come from. Then they're finally gonna leave the table. Does the VVD see an opportunity to get this opportunityless Zbo story off the table as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u36	I think I have been quite clear about this in previous debates. An appointment was made in the coalition agreement. Mr Van Aalst makes it look like it only came out of the VVD tube. I don't know where he gets that. I have not been told that they have been at the table in the negotiations on the coalition agreement. In any case, it has been whispered to me that this was carried more widely. There's a signature underneath of four parties. This means that the steps currently being taken by the Secretary of State must meet a number of conditions. We discussed this with each other in the debate. If the Secretary of State can meet that and deploy that line, it's got our signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u37	We note with each other that it does not give anything extra. We finally got everything in order at ProRail. Then we're gonna throw everything back on its head. It costs a lot of money. No one's gonna be happy about this. Then the colleague of the VVD must agree with me that we should not carry out this exercise? That's too bad about our money, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u38	I hear Mr Van Aalst making the observation that we have a good relationship and that we agree that we are going to do something that is obviously not right. That's what we're into. Obviously that is Mr Van Aalst's opinion, but I have not yet been able to get that 'together' from the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there's rail freight. We have all said it once and noted it: an environmentally friendly way of transport. The Secretary of State has agreed with the sector a decent package to make it more attractive to transport goods by rail. We are far from there, but the first steps have been taken. The aim must remain that tariffs for users are competitive with those in other countries around us. This requires an effort on the part of the carriers, but also on the part of the railway operator. It is now too early to make this a solid point, because most of the measures still need to be implemented. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to keep an eye on that. For all forms of public transport, we must be able to make safe use of it. It is unacceptable that there are fellow travelers who are aggressively approaching O.V. personnel. The people who are guilty of this are often black riders. That is why we want to deal with them even more strictly. I understand that Mr Van Aalst has just made this point. He also brought it with a slightly different introduction. But I would like to know from the Secretary of State how she views a permanent O.V. ban on aggressive travellers. The safety of staff and fellow travellers must always be at the forefront. Ov-bikes............................................................................................................................................................ This Secretary of State has earmarked 100 million to improve the bicycle infrastructure and 75 million of these goes to the bicycle parking spots. In my opinion, there is a limit to the number of bicycles you can store at stations and in the city. That is why my question is to investigate how this budget can be spent on new sub-concepts, so that it becomes easier in the big cities to catch a bike. This way we actually go from possession to use. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State if she would like to talk to the Dutch Railways to also place on the smaller stations ov-bikes, so that in the whole of the Netherlands they are called 'Overland' in NL, which, I believe, the 'last mile' can be used by bicycle. That is my request to the Secretary of State. The economy has got off to a good start. Figures of predicted growth are exceeded. As a result, all available forms of transport are put under pressure by the offer. Politically, we need to keep up our efforts to keep up with new developments and, if possible, implement them in the offer. That makes it clear that innovations must be in focus at the Ministry. Do we have enough quality in the house? I ask both the Secretary of State and the Minister. Good procurement paths with knowledge and an eye for innovation are necessary. In this context, the budget raises a number of questions concerning the personnel component of the Ministry. As a group, we are very much in favour of efficient and targeted work, but here we see that the number of borrowing forces will be substantially reduced. Isn't it always the case that this knowledge had to be specifically hired to fill out projects properly? What's changed about that? Is that regular group extra trained now? Or is this external expertise now in permanent service? Has that changed the composition of the team? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State or the Minister how that works. For it must be certain that there is sufficient knowledge and skills in the house to cope with the tough task ahead. I also see in the budget that the reserves at the KNMI have been expanded. The task for the coming years is to get the capacity back on the ground with small steps by means of austerity. Then we see, among other things, a proposed sharp increase in the hourly rate as a solution. Has there been a review of prices applied in comparable companies? Is there a so-called benchmark done? What is the reason why there is such a huge impact on equity, which means that it is now zero? Then there's the environmental heading, Mr. Chairman. Everyone contributes to the protection of our environment. People collect their glass and paper separately and after a day in the park or on the beach you just clean up your mess. That's just normal. We also realise that our waste can be used as a raw material for new products. Recycling reduces the need for raw materials, which is ultimately good for the environment. Air quality has improved considerably in recent years. The levels of harmful substances such as nitrogen and particulate matter have fallen sharply and the Dutch air is becoming increasingly clean. However, the Court found that the cost-effectiveness and health gains of eight national traffic measures from the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme were disappointing and that the Ministry was likely to achieve more with the same amount of money. It could have achieved the same emission reduction with less money if it had understood the impact of the individual measures. I ask the Secretary of State to examine the measures separately in the screening of interdepartmental policy research on air quality so that we can improve air quality in the Netherlands cost-effectively in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr. Ziengs, may I interrupt you for a moment? You are now at 10 minutes' speaking time. I'm not sure how that was filled in with the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u40	We have 30 minutes in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u41	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u42	We have about two minutes in front of me for the second term, so I can go on to about twelve, thirteen minutes, and that will also work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u43	Okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u44	Don't worry about that, Mr. Chairman. The clock's starting to run again, all right. Then the asbestos. We have recently discussed the legislative amendment in this Chamber, but it appears that the 75 million subsidy pot for the clean-up of asbestos roofs is already empty. This scheme would be in force until 2019 or until the available budget is exhausted. This is due to the accelerated approach. We welcome them, but the VVD is concerned that progress will not stagnate in the coming years. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. How is she going to ensure that this acceleration does not stagnate? It is important to consider solutions other than the replenishment of a subsidy pool. Finally. Leaving waste lying around in the street or dumping it in nature is harmful to the environment. Municipalities and provinces are increasingly confronted with dumped chemical drug waste. There are several ministries involved in this issue and I would like to know from the Secretary of State how she manages this issue and how she intends to deal with it. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra. He too speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The file sample is back, and that's a problem. Last week Tuesday 970 kilometers of traffic and Thursday 1,145 kilometers. New records. It's not normal. The VVD wants to reduce the traffic jams, but we don't do that from today to tomorrow. At the same time, we must continue to work on improved traffic flow. Last week everything was fixed, half the country in the circle Amsterdam, Amersfoort, Zwolle, Arnhem, Eindhoven, Breda, Rotterdam. In fact, half the Netherlands, or the whole of the Netherlands. An acute traffic infarct. The Netherlands stood still. That was because it was dark, an hour earlier, because it was rainy again and because of the inevitable accidents. It took you a long time after eight o'clock in the evening before you got a little moving again. No one stands in traffic for their fun. You have to go to work and you want to go home. People often don't have a choice. Mobility is increasing. The KiM report shows that, too. Mobility is increasing mainly because the economy is growing significantly. That actually makes us the victim of our own success. But it doesn't make the traffic jams and the damage they cause any less. The economy is getting pinched by infarcts like this. The social costs on the main road network were rather 3.7 billion, but what is this now, I ask the Minister? How much is that in five years? And what about our underlying road network? That doesn't even count at the moment. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet invests 3.2 billion more in infrastructure projects, including in asphalt. The positive news is that we know exactly where to invest. And that's what we do, namely by filling out major projects and missing links. For example, the A24, including the Blankenburg tunnel, the widening A27 Amelisweerd, the extension of the A15, junction Ressen towards the A12 near Zevenaar and also the connection to it. And another important link I would like to mention is the A13/A16 at Rotterdam. That's what we have to do, so put the shovel in the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u47	Last week we saw colleagues who had difficulty with calculations, but I try to make the sum for Mr Dijkstra. Your Rutte II cabinet cut 6 billion. You're bringing back $3 billion now. I don't think we're gonna have a lot of extras, but we're still 3 billion short. Does my colleague from the VVD agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u48	I don't quite follow your math. What I do know is that we have a pot for the infrastructure fund and that this cabinet has added extra money, i.e. occasionally 2 billion over three years, and 100 million structurally per year. And we're counting to 2032, so that's 1.2 billion plus 2 billion is 3.2 billion. My math checks out. We also invest in the bicycle: 100 million occasionally. So we're investing heavily. But is it enough? No. I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u49	Point one: that bike of course is not going to solve those traffic jams. In the mathematics I made, it was about the 6 billion that Rutte has cut in recent years and about the 3 billion that you just mentioned and brought back. I think we're still three billion short. That's the sum. So is my colleague from the VVD willing to make extra money? Then I'm talking real extra money, so not about trying to make a cut halfway, but about really making extra money available for infrastructure. Is he willing to take on the traffic sample that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u50	I'm glad we have extra money now. Is that enough? No. I also have many more wishes and I have a number of questions for the Minister. We have to work together on that. But there's not an infinite amount of money, and we have to make choices. I'm glad we're back at the level we were on in 2009 and 2010. But we do see that traffic has grown explosively. So we have another catch-up to make there. But you can't save that from today to tomorrow, it takes a long-term planning. In the short term, however, we can also do a number of things to lighten the fileleed. I feel that fileleed with people, too. We must do our best to alleviate that suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr Dijkstra referred to the KiM figures and said that mobility is increasing and growing. If you look at those figures, you can see that rail transport is growing three times as fast as car mobility. Shouldn't we also let the train be a much more important part of our mobility solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u52	Everything is growing, all mobility is growing. The beauty of it is that people like to be mobile. They can. Everything grows, but it's en-and-and. I will come to that in a moment in my speech. You should definitely invest in asphalt. The VVD is very much in favour of that. But you also need to invest in public transport, including alternatives. I'll get back to you on that, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u53	Sure. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u54	Yes. Look, I already have the passage here. But besides investing in asphalt, the en-en strategy also applies. Public transport is also important. And the use of data is also very important, I think. Even the bike is that. And it's also about possible behavior change in humans. Why do we all start at the same office time? That's weird. Isn't there a better spread? It's about making better use of all that infrastructure we have with each other. Then what can we learn from each other? It's a total package. All investments in infrastructure must be targeted, I would also say explicitly to Mrs Kröger. The VVD wants to invest where the bottlenecks are greatest, where the economic and social costs due to travel time loss can be most limited. And then I find travel time savings, i.e. the price per passenger per kilometre per type of transport really interesting. Then you're going to talk about numbers and then you're going to see where that tax euro is most effective. Does the Minister agree with us? And how is it going to place the price per passenger per mobility in the Mobility Fund? How many passengers are on the road or on the train every day? Figures are crucial. I have asked questions about this before and I am very curious to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u55	Out of interest, I ask you the following question. You said, "Maybe we should change office hours." So you're thinking about it? Are we gonna change school hours? How far does your creativity go in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u56	Yeah, it goes a long way. I saw an example when I was visiting Nijmegen, where both the university and the university are located. The buses are overcrowded there. A lot of students ride bikes, of course, but some also ride bikes. If you start one half an hour later and the other half an hour earlier, you can spread it and transport more people with the same capacity at the same cost. It's an example, but you have to start that conversation, even with big employers in certain areas. I am thinking of Utrecht and Amsterdam. Can't you get those people out of the car? Do you have alternatives to offer? Can't they start at 11:00? Couldn't it be teleworking, for example? That kind of thing is all necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr. Chairman. Mr Dijkstra referred to the long-term planning: en-en-en. Then I thought, "And the mileage tax." I haven't heard that one yet, but I do hear some things that might go a little bit that way. My question is whether it is also part of those 'and'. Or is that something that has not yet occurred in your mind, but perhaps now is added there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u58	We can certainly think about that, but at the moment people have no choice. In fact, we already have a kind of mileage tax, namely excise duty. The more you drive, the more you pay. In the future you will also have to look at a different way of financing, especially if everyone is going to drive electric, because then 8 billion in fuel tax will fall. But it's a no-go right now, because people don't have an alternative either. All those people who were in traffic last week weren't there for their fun. You can't put it on the train. They're not even needed at a station. So, no. We've made clear agreements about charging. He will not be there for this cabinet period, but of course we will always be thinking, even towards the future. What's it gonna take to get it done in a good way? But punishing people now and only making it more expensive is not a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u59	I will come back to this later in my contribution, but I am very glad that the long-term VVD does not exclude that mileage tax either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u60	I was clear in my answer. It's a no-go, because it's paid to be in traffic right now. But what that will be like in the future, we will see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u61	Before you proceed, Mr Van Dijk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u62	I agree with Mr Dijkstra that we naturally need to solve bottlenecks... means that we have to make the Netherlands one large asphalt road in order to avoid the traffic jams altogether. So we do not escape forms of mileage tax. Even the ANWB has indicated this in a broad coalition. Why doesn't the VVD want to do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u63	Then you have a way of paying to use. That sounds very interesting, but then I think you should also go through with all the modalities. If you're going to talk about that, you should also look at what the car driver gets every year: 20, 21, 22 billion dollars, and what he gets back on asphalt; that's 3 billion this year. Then you're also gonna see what the charges are per traveler by modality, which I was just talking about. Then you see that the train traveller is heavily subsidised. If we're gonna charge or pay for use, you're gonna have to do the same for railroad. Then you'll have another discussion. I think you should feed it openly and fairly. At the moment it's just not an option to drive a bill, because it's paid for in traffic. Driving's expensive enough already. Please, let's make sure people get home a little on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr Van Dijk, fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u65	We want travelers and everyone at home in time; we give that to everyone. But it is too easy to turn the O and the train against the car, because the O is just a lot more durable and a lot cleaner. So in that sense I think the comparison is a bit limp, if we work simultaneously on a cleaner world and a cleaner Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u66	It's en-and-and. For a lot of people public transport is perfect, but not for three quarters or 80% of the Netherlands that goes to work daily and also has to visit customers or simply doesn't have a station nearby. Then you can invest in the O.V. whatever you want, but even the director of ProRail says: even if you double the expenses, you can't handle that traveler flow at all. So it's en-and-and-and. For a very large part of the Netherlands it is simply not a solution, because it will always take longer, is more expensive or whatever, for example not sufficiently comfortable. So let's work on ensuring that every modality is properly served. That is what this cabinet does, because besides putting it in the car, we are also, of course, putting a huge amount into sustainable public transport and rail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u67	I hear the VVD saying that the horrible bill riding is paid in traffic. I couldn't agree more. What do we call the truck tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u68	You are a little ahead of my speech; I am on page 2 of the 6. The truck tax, how am I supposed to describe it? We had four reports last Monday. I think we should be fair and study these reports carefully with each other. I haven't been able to do enough. I do see the first sketches, namely that we agreed, first of all, in the coalition agreement, that there would be a lorry Maut. In terms of ICT, it has to match those in neighbouring countries, so as not to have all kinds of cabinets in your car. And, two, is a very important condition for the VVD: 100% refund of that truck tax, which is now also paid by foreign drivers, towards the Dutch transport sector. That must be the case and otherwise not. The proceeds are therefore used to reduce vehicle taxes and to make the sector more sustainable. That's the way it's supposed to be, and that's the way it's supposed to be. It's not our idea, but if you do it, then these are conditions that need to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u69	I am pleased that the VVD notes in any case that it should return 100%. We have already noted that this is not going to happen at all, so I am glad that the VVD is abandoning the truck tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u70	The latter is not true. But 100% backflow: absolutely. We need to look at competitiveness, what it means for the environment, what it means for traffic and transport in traffic jams and what it means for road safety. Maybe Mr. Paternotte has another question about it. But I don't want us to trade in trucks for all kinds of vans or get trucks from the national road network on the provincial roads in no time. That is why I say, taking all these reports into account: if we do it, let us do it carefully and according to the framework of the government agreement, namely 100% return to the sector, which itself is about spending. We're not gonna cream money here for all kinds of other green fun goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u71	No, these trucks, or at least the loads, we naturally want to get in the water and onto the railroad; not even in the air, if we get up there later. My question to Mr Dijkstra was about what he was discussing before. I thought he had an extremely realistic story and I am glad that he says that mileage pricing is an interesting alternative in the long term. Scientific research agrees with Mr Dijkstra because you can see that in the long term this may be the only possibility. The question I would like to ask him is whether he is interested in working with us to see if we can already do tests with pricing of road use and thus see what will work best in the long term if we actually arrive at such a mileage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u72	I understand from Mr Paternotte that, if you receive compliments from another party, that is deadly in this debate. I'm getting one now, so I'm gonna get a little upset. When it comes to pricing or testing other forms of pricing, I note that agreements have also been made in the coalition agreement. But then it is not a question of punishment, where I look at the left side of the Chamber, but of leaving it much more to employers to seduce their staff to choose alternatives. There's got to be. The point about charging is: if you don't have any alternatives, your only alternative is to connect behind the traffic. I want that file to get shorter and there will be real alternatives, so you have a choice. If you don't have a choice, it gets complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u73	With mileage tax you can get spread in road use, so that traffic jams can be avoided. That's what all traffic controllers say, and also ANWB and RAI support that call. Mr Dijkstra is clinging to two thoughts. On the one hand, he sees that it has to be there in the future, especially when our fleet is electrifying and we are no longer getting excise duty out of petrol, but on the other hand he continues to be obstinate to his constituents saying that it is a no go. Is this the irrationality of the politics that Minister Wiebes mentioned when he said: sometimes is politically irrational, like for example when driving on account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u74	You draw all kinds of equations I don't know. Right now, if you did it, billing would be paid for in traffic. People have no alternative, I do want to offer them both because they can drive through all kinds of short- and long-term measures and because they have alternatives that allow them to make their own choices. The moment we install a button like this, you know one thing for sure: driving is only going to be more expensive. I'll pass for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u75	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I mentioned a number of nodes in the road network in which we are now investing, but there are also some for the future. That is what we must continue to do. For example with the A20 Gouda-De Meern and of course vice versa, including possibly a short bow at Bodegraven to the N11, which I will come back to in the treatment of the MIRT. I am thinking of the intermediate section of the N35, on which we often have contact with Overijssel, roads in Brabant, such as the A2, the A58, the freight corridors, the A15 towards the east and the A67. A road that now falls between shore and ship is the A50 between junction Ewijk and Oss. This road came from the top-70 at once in the top-11 or -12. We don't have enough money. We need to make sure that we can mobilise that at some point. I should like to go into that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u77	Before you go any further: a question from Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u78	I just heard the word N35 fall. Normally we do that in the MIRT, but if the word falls: how does the VVD see it? What do you want to do? Are you going to invest yourself? You expect the county to do that? I understand that the VVD in Overijssel has said that it no longer wants to invest in the N35, because it is a national road. How does the VVD see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u79	The latter is not true. I have almost daily contact with my colleagues in Overijssel, as do you. The N35 is a national road, that's right. The previous budget debate also mentioned this road, and then we said: region, now come up with an overall plan. There's no point in sticking patches. The use of the VVD is clear: two double lanes and 100 kilometers per hour. There are now some bottlenecks where we stick patches, but there has to be an integral story. The deputy of Overijssel will also be joining the minister shortly. I can't wait to see what comes out of it. At least the N35 is on the map. That's clear and we share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u80	The N35 has been on the map for years, but that's the problem: it's on the map, only we don't do anything with it. It is a national road and your colleague in Overijssel has just replied at the current State Assembly that the VVD in Overijssel is not prepared to invest because it is a national road. The Minister states that the N35 is not a priority in terms of bottlenecks. So how does the VVD see that? You always use big words about investing. We can invest now. Show that you want to invest in that N35 and not always those empty promises, because that doesn't help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u81	Two things. We've invested a lot in the N35. At Nijverdal and other places have bypasses; there has been considerable investment. There is now an intermediate piece that is not adequately operated. I think we should stop sticking patches, but I'd like to wait for an integral vision from East. The Minister will be joining us shortly. The sounds from Overijssel which I have heard, I cannot follow a parallel debate while I am standing here, is that the province is prepared to provide enormous co-financing for this road. It has become quite a road from a cart track, but it is not yet the end result that we want with each other. Then let's go for that, instead of blaming each other here. I believe that we have a common goal, namely to ensure that Overijssel is also mobile, and that is the most essential point in this respect. Mr. Chairman. Asphalt works, too. Just look at the connection to the A1/A6 at Muiden. There, congestion has decreased by 80% due to large-scale and targeted investments in the road. We should do that more often. Then you'd better try to beat that file monster. And if you can do that, you can drive on. So, Minister, why don't we just drive 130 on this beautiful piece of A1? That would be fantastic, wouldn't it? Take immediately the A2 Utrecht towards Amsterdam, that five-lane road, during the day. Why not? What's holding us back? There are environmental rules and safety rules, but if we can, we have to do it. Mr. Chairman. Large projects also take a long time. That is a fact and that is a pity. But we're not going to wait as a VVD until 2030. Let us seize every moment to make the Netherlands more mobile. Action is also conceivable in the short term. Think of more peaks and broadening them, but also opening those peaks, with normal speeds at all times, signs so that people are more attentive when something is there, other lines on the road: simple things. A vigorous deployment of strategic salvagers in more places is also conceivable in order to promote the flow. As a VVD, I would also like to push forward the short-term file approach, which the Minister has been working on, and I might consider another motion. I also think it is necessary, because despite our investment in O and A asphalt, the fileswaart will increase by 35% over the next five years, according to the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy. Again, not only on the road, but everywhere it increases, also on the railway, also in public transport or even on the bike path. So we need to invest more and we are now making that catch-up. Without this investment in recent times, the Netherlands would be in a very bad way and we had a continuous traffic infarct. Ask the Flemings what it's like in Brussels or at the Ring Antwerp. That's a scare to me. The VVD does not want Belgian conditions on our roads. It is therefore our task as a policy to make the Netherlands mobile and to keep it accessible. That can work in any way possible. We were just having a discussion about that. There are opportunities for innovation, for cleaner transport, for investing in smart and sustainable transport systems that allow you to connect better. But the VVD sets three conditions: freedom of choice first, always being able to offer alternatives if there aren't, then it becomes complicated and affordable. Mr. Chairman. It is also a good thing that we continue to look forward to mobility in our country in the MIRT, the multiannual programme, but now we are actually only dealing with solving the main road bottlenecks. To what extent are we also considering a kind of road map for the Netherlands in the distant future? For example, what does this road map look like in 2050? Shouldn't we put a dot on the horizon? I had found a beautiful picture, the highway plan, which I have here. That's a map on Wikipedia that shows all kinds of roads. That card's from 1927. Napoleon once figured out what the Netherlands should look like. In 1927 we started to plan roads. We have done this for a number of years, until 1984, I believe, and then no longer. Don't you think it's time we had a little visionary look at it? Mr. Chairman. Whatever I want is for us to make enough plans. We have talked about under-exhaustment and that we really need to be able to start big projects when there is a view of public or private resources, that we are looking at how we are going to free up money, including from the sector. This is important for a future cabinet period, but hopefully it can be done sooner. So the crucial question is: can we mobilise more money? And how are we supposed to do that? I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State to think about this. I am also considering tabling a motion on this matter. Then there's the freight transport, Mr. Chairman. The facilities for transporters and drivers are of great importance. I want a targeted approach to the freight corridors. I'm glad there is, but we really need to give it content, with secure truck parking. Europe says it's going to finance it. That's good. But think also of the maritime sector, which has much more opportunities to transport goods by water and thus also to relieve the burden on the road: sustainable transport by water. For example, the river Waal, where I live nearby, is a highway of water. There can be seven times as many containers as what is now being transported. Of course, you have to have a normal water level, but that's usually the case. The VVD wants to make better use of the opportunities of inland waterway transport and asks the Minister to make real progress on this. What specific actions can it take? I come to my second subject, Mr President: road safety. Road safety is of great importance to the VVD. The number of victims can be reduced if we pay more attention in traffic, if we use ICT smarter rather than being distracted by the smartphone. Although accidents can never be ruled out, they can be prevented by awareness and adaptation of behaviour. So I'm happy with the Rij MONO campaign to set a new standard in the Netherlands: you shouldn't hold your mobile when you're behind the wheel. There must also be a real chance of getting caught. The penalty for the offence is now €239, including administration costs. It has to be strong enough to get it out of your head chatting, facebooking or appetizing while you're riding or cycling. During my work visit in June I made a working visit to the East Netherlands Team in three days Hundreds of drivers were issued, especially truck drivers and drivers. About one in four sat with a mobile in his hand, also professional drivers, including drivers transporting dangerous substances. That is why it is right that new cameras and detection methods should be put in place to combat this further. The VVD also looks forward to the promised legislative proposals when it comes to heavier penalties for drinking and drugs, reckless behavior, miserable behavior. At the heart of this is the increase in the penalty of dangerous driving behaviour, a great desire of the VVD. Once again, I would like to draw particular attention to the elimination of alcohol and drugs in traffic. Targeted actions as far as I'm concerned at multi-day festivals where drugs are used, because the combination of drug use and driving just doesn't work. Then it is important that the entire chain of police and justice functions properly. Those controls lead to the capture of of offenders. That positive drug testing also leads to convictions, fines and driving disqualifications. That when you cause a serious accident, for example by reckless driving, you will never get away with community service. That we're tackling more serious traffic offences, such as driving under the influence, driving away after an accident, ignoring red crosses and similar offences, and slightly less in lighter offences. That the norm is: a lady or a gentleman in traffic, and no different. The traffic cocksucker should not be on the road and should return his driving licence earlier in the event of infringements. A new concern I have, which I feel, is photographing and filming accidents. That's really not done. You can't do that. Handing out fines is necessary, but of course there's a mentality thing behind it. Are the fines sufficient or is more needed? For example, filming a CPR of a victim of a traffic accident is really not possible. 90% of the Dutch understand this, but still it happens massively. Does the police have enough tools to maintain and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u82	One question... Excuse me. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u83	I have one more paragraph on this. Shall I finish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u85	What does the government think of the Red Cross campaign they started yesterday to point out to people that they should call 112 or provide assistance themselves rather than put the victims on the scene? Does the Minister share the VVD's view that it is disrespectful to film victims in serious accidents? What signal are we going to send? Finally, Mr President. I'm, like the VVD, a supporter of the Strategic Road Safety Plan. We are also prepared to reserve additional resources for this. I would also like to think about this with my colleagues over the next few days and perhaps make a proposal in the second period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u86	50PLUS is also concerned about increasing accident filming and helping workers instead of helping people. We know that there is legislation for this in Germany. Fines are quite high, up to €1,000. It is also prohibited to film unsolicited paramedics and the like. Is the VVD prepared to apply legislation for this too, so that what can be done in Germany could also be done in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u87	We need to see if we can take one-on-one on exactly how that is done in Germany. It's got to be legal, too. 'Cause what are you gonna ban? If someone's driving and filming, it's obvious that someone can get a fine now. You can weigh up a fine like that or whatever. But as far as the person sitting next to it is concerned, filming on the public road is not prohibited. It depends on what you're filming. I would really like to look at this in more detail, including lawyers, because it must be feasible and not symbolic legislation. I do think we share that it is a huge concern and that attention should be paid to it. That is why my questions to the Minister. Perhaps they were more applicable to Mr Grapperhaus, who is talking about this, but it is something we should address. It just can't be that you're hanging out of your window in such a serious traffic accident to take pictures or videos of victims fighting for their lives. That's not right. When you see something like this, you either have to give help or keep your back so people can do their job. I think we share the concern that it's serious and that it's not good. A fine of €239 doesn't feel right. That's probably not enough. Hence my questions to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u88	I am glad that at least we have the same indignation. But the example of Germany is that it is forbidden to photograph or film aid workers unsolicited. That'll help you apply a fine like that. Indeed, €239 or €238 is nothing. In Germany it is €1,000. Do we find the VVD on our side to see if it can actually be tighter and whether a higher fine can be imposed on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u89	The short answer is: yes, I am prepared to look at it. But it's not gonna do us any good if we just ban it without a chance of getting caught. It's about the whole package. Of course, you have the sanctioning and the chance of getting caught, but that's what awareness is about. I've seen those videos from Germany, where boys go out and finally call their mother because they've forgotten something, while they're filming themselves in such an accident. That's when the cell phone goes off from someone who's lying there. That's the boy's mother. When you see it, it's dramatic. Let us focus on awareness and, where appropriate, legislation when it is needed and works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u90	You were at the end of your speech. I see another question from Mrs Kröger. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u91	Still, a specific question about how we deal with mobility in the Netherlands. For example, the A27. Hundreds of millions will be used for a very, very limited travel time gain. For example, if you followed Mr Jetten's proposal to bring down the maximum speed, you could, even with an investment, solve this bottleneck within the box. If we look at good governance and handle money well, then the VVD must agree with me that we should look at this seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u92	What's the question? Is the question whether a project that we already put on the map in 2012 is right or not, which is necessary to keep Utrecht and Utrecht-East from a traffic infarct, among other things? We set everything in motion there. I think it's an important project, a big project. It is also a project where a lot of nature is compensated. We decided that with each other. That's what we're gonna do. It's hard as hell. We're not gonna look at all kinds of alternatives the moment you've made up your mind. You're gonna have to go through with it. People can object and have done so in detail. It is devastating that GroenLinks is advocating that these projects should not be carried out. It doesn't help people in traffic. They don't buy anything for that. They simply want to drive from Utrecht to Amersfoort or from Utrecht to Hilversum or to Houten. This solution provides a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u93	Again, hundreds of millions we throw over the beam, while you also solve the traffic node by lowering the speed limit. Mr Dijkstra points out that we have taken this decision and that we are going to do it this way, while, of course, something is changing in the external world. Today the verdict has been reached on the PAS and its impact on nitrogen policy. That also puts a project like the A27 on focus. So again the question of whether Mr Dijkstra is prepared to see if we can use the hundreds of millions that are going there, more useful and better for the climate, for the Empire, for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u94	For the people who are following this debate: the PAS is the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u95	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mrs Kröger has a point in that things change. That's right: mobility is changing. When you read the KiM report, you see that mobility is only increasing. Then I'm thinking, where does it get the most? Probably around the big cities, including Utrecht. So it's fantastic that we're going to do this project with each other. That is what we must do; we must continue to do so. With regard to further lowering the maximum speed on the A27: that is 100 km/h. So I don't know where you're going with this. We can also stand still with each other, which we already do enough in the traffic jams there. Let's please keep going and let's make sure that these big projects really come together, because that will help people in the Netherlands. That helps those 8.3 million drivers, and not just countering things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-8.u98	I propose that the sitting be suspended until 1.55 p.m. for lunch. Afterwards, the swearing-in of our new colleague will take place and the order of business will follow. This debate will then continue.
