ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u1	I shall first give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66. According to my report, he's the only speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. We had a general discussion yesterday about the Foreign Affairs Council, but also about the terrible situation in Yemen and the role that some countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, play in it, and the opportunities that there are for doing something about it in the UN Security Council. I think we have the momentum now that the Americans have stopped filling coalition aircraft in the air and now that several Member States have themselves argued for either an arms moratorium or an arms embargo. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the war in Yemen has become one of the largest humanitarian crises of the present;]] [[Whereas the Group of Eminent Experts on Yemen established by the OHCHR notes that Saudi Arabia has an unmistakable share in the war in Yemen and associated serious human rights violations;]] [[Whereas the same Group also recommends to the international community, including the Arab League, that the supply of weapons that can be used in the conflict be stopped;]] [[calls on the Government of the United Nations Security Council to call for a ceasefire in Yemen and an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind, Mr Ploumen, Mr Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1924]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you. I'll see if the minister can answer right away. He'll be waiting for the motion for a moment, but I think he'll be able to respond immediately afterwards. That's the case. The motion is now under the attention of the Minister. I give the floor to the Minister to give his appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch Government is deeply concerned about the situation in Yemen. It was my predecessor who took the first initiatives for the expert group that carried out on-the-spot inspections. Fortunately, we have recently regained sufficient support to allow that expert group to continue with its important work. We sincerely hope that it will be possible to achieve a first ceasefire and humanitarian access and, of course, a final peace solution. Yesterday we discussed the possibility of calling for an arms embargo. I have looked closely at the text of Mr Sjoerdsma's motion and others. It refers explicitly to the statements of that group of eminent experts. That brings an important balance, as far as I am concerned. I appreciate that. I believe that yesterday's debate has added to what is necessary in this respect. So if I may explain the motion in such a way that this is a call along the lines of the Group of Eminent Experts recommendation, which calls on the international community, including the Arab League countries, which Mr Sjoerdsma also knows to refrain from supplying weapons that can be deployed in Yemen, then I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I am also saying this in the light of the fact that the Netherlands already has a very restrictive arms export policy, as we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u6	Let me take a look at Mr Sjoerdsma as the author. Can the Minister's interpretation be supported? Then the motion can get "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u7	I must say, first of all, that I cannot speak on behalf of everyone here. So it's gonna be... Mr Van Ojik says "try it," but my experience is that you will find yourself in a very uncomfortable situation. I just want to make sure I understand the minister correctly. Is he saying that when it comes to supplying weapons, he wants to broaden it? Let me get this straight. It says now: an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. Do I understand correctly that, referring to the Group of Eminent Experts report, he says: it should not only be about Saudi Arabia, but about all the warring parties? So he says: we should not highlight one, but we should highlight them all, and in doing so we should follow the recommendation of the Group of Eminent Experts on how to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u8	Sure. The very critical report by the eminent experts is rightly referred to. But they also point to arms supplies by all the parties involved. I think that's pure, too. That is why I would like to point out that I would like to make this appeal along the lines of the wording of this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u9	I'll take a look at Mr. Sjoerdsma again for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. I can't say right now... It sounds sympathetic to me, because it sounds like a broadening. So that sounds good. But I would also like to consult with my colleagues who are still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u11	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u12	I see this as a step. I think we have another budget discussion tomorrow. I would like to try to be able to put our judgement back together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u13	I'm gonna take a look at the minister, too. If the interpretation becomes different, what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u14	I have now heard no other interpretation of the motion as it stands. I give my interpretation, in which I indicate: I think that along this route I will elaborate on the assessment of the report of the eminent experts. So if I may explain the motion in line with that report too, then that seems logical to me. I don't have any other explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u15	This is a bit of a miraculous process, because I see two people standing on the same motion. I would suggest that you look for coordination with each other, because it is difficult to do so via the interrupting microphone. The Minister has indicated that he gives Chamber judgment if this is the interpretation. I would very much like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr President, I am a co-signator of this motion and I have another question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u17	If it's just a question of fact, I'm sure I'll give you an opportunity. If it's a short question, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u18	It's just a question about what the Minister says and about this motion. I have only one simple question, in line with what Mr Sjoerdsma said: will the Minister carry out the request as formulated by the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u19	I have given a clear response to that. If I can do that with the texts used in the report of the Group of Eminent Experts, the judgment is Chamber and I will therefore carry out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u20	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u21	No, I'd like to leave it at that. Frankly, you didn't sign up for this VAO either. I suggest you discuss that with each other. There are several proposers, I see Mr Van Ojik even though he is standing, so we are going to stick to this for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u22	That brings us to the end of this debate. We are going to vote tomorrow afternoon on the motion tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment.
