ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-8.u1	After the swearing-in of Mr.Kerstens we go to Mrs.Voortman's farewell on behalf of GroenLinks. Mrs. Voortman wrote a suicide note. I'm gonna read it to you now. 'Dear President, dear Khadija, With effect from 6 June 2018, I say goodbye as a member of the House of Representatives. My reason for this is that I become alderman in Utrecht. At my farewell to the city council of Groningen in January 2008, I said that I hadn't finished with local politics and expected to come back. It's the closest form of government. You ride around the city and see what you're changing. I also found it a very interesting event that in the eight years that I was a Member of Parliament, I was also very busy with matters that play locally. Think of the decentralisation laws, measures relating to residence and how we accept asylum seekers humanely, all subjects where municipalities deal with implementation. Often enough, I heard a ruler say, "That's not what the Empire is about anymore." I find it an honor now as an alderman to finally sit on the buttons of my own accord and to go over it. Now that GroenLinks is the largest in Utrecht and we are allowed to supply three aldermen there, the local politics is beckoning me and I will deliver the promise of 2008. That does not alter the fact that I find it regrettable that my membership of the Parliament is now coming to an end. Because I had a lot of plans, for example, dealing with debt and finally getting the Open Government Act passed. I also enjoyed the plenary sitting in front of the meetings very much. You make sure others can do their job well. As chairman, you can never really do it right. To my group, too, I find it somewhat regrettable. I really enjoyed sharing my experience with new colleagues and would have liked to continue with that. But after a long period in a small fraction there is now a strong and larger team. I am extremely proud of you and will continue to follow you from the local and I'm sure I'll be able to give you some unsolicited advice from time to time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary journal, I would like to say the following. It has happened in recent years that I have been in debates with colleagues who dealt with issues that affect many people, but which have not received any attention from you, because you were all at one door or another. Kind of frustrating. Nevertheless, I do not think I have any reason to complain about the amount and manner in which you paid attention to the issues that I was warm to. My husband and my mother have been able to make quite a stack of scrapbooks with clippings. On behalf of them, I would like to thank you for this and wish you every success in your further work. I would also like to thank the following people: the group staff, the Registry, the security, the cleaners, the messengers, the staff in the restaurants and everyone else who provides support. You are the silent motor of this House of Representatives. Without you, MPs wouldn't be able to do their job properly. My thanks for this are and remain great. Finally, I would like to thank you, Khadija, and the colleagues at the Bureau for their cooperation. The biweekly meetings were educational, useful and cosy. Really. You're all well. Greetings, Linda'
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-8.u2	Dear Mrs. Voortman, dear Linda, Today you say goodbye to the House of Representatives and we say goodbye to a colourful MP. "Colourful," of course, we often say that about a politician. A bit of a cliché, but in your case... The panels behind me, once made by Ruud van de Wint, consist of seventeen layers of oil paint. For the past eight years, we've seen at least as many colors in your hairstyle. From purple to orange, your hairstyle was never a shade. It was always an expression of your fervent commitment to a whole palette of societal topics. And that's for someone with a classic activist resume. Those are not my words, by the way. It was in the Move in 2015. You gave a personal interview after you were unwittingly and unjustly leading in an investigation. It was a nasty time for you, but you fought back, and I personally dare say you've come out stronger. You skilfully piloted the initiative law Flexible working through the Chamber. You stood very strikingly with a thick belly, perhaps a little inflexible, behind the speaker chair to defend the law. It was just going, and you made a joke about that, which is, "That pulpit wasn't made for pregnant women." I am happy to give this to Ockje Tellegen, chairman of the Construction Guidance Committee, in the context of the move. But also your commitment to constantly improving the Lower House itself has surprised me very pleased. You understood that the Lower House can only do its job well if it has a better knowledge and information position. That position has been strengthened and you have made a big contribution to it. As a member of the Bureau, you used to sit in this chair as Vice-President to replace me. That had a number of advantages. I could leave for a while to do other things. Secondly, you also discovered that you enjoyed the presidency very much and that you could be above the parties. Thirdly, you experienced in the flesh how long of dust your colleagues can be and you held a mirror to yourself. I can't say for sure, but since you replaced me, your interruptions have become extremely short. Dear Linda, your departure gives you a double feeling. Were you really done with all your work here? You chose Utrecht and continue to work for the public business, in the city where you live and are attached to. I am not happy with Members of Parliament who leave the Chamber prematurely, but I am pleased that in Utrecht there is also an oiled Linda team working with and for the public business. I'd say take care of yourself. And thank you so much for putting yourself in the Chamberwork with a lot of energy and passion over the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-8.u3	This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior. Mrs Voortman's farewell will also take place after the votes.
