ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the report (Doc. There have been five speakers from the Chamber. First, I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP, who has registered for four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister recently indicated in response to Parliamentary questions from the SP that insurers, unlike banks, are not system-relevant. I don't know if I agree with him. After the credit crisis, insurers were also rescued by governments, such as the American insurer American International Group or the Dutch Fortis Insurance, now called ASR. The fact that we need this law shows, in my view, that there is no confidence that insurers are now so stable that nothing will ever happen again. That would have been misplaced, too, because something could always happen. We do not need to agree with the Minister today on the systemic relevance of insurers, but it is clear that the trust of people that they are secure is important, perhaps just as important as their confidence in banks. Often, the products of banks and insurers compete with each other, such as life insurance and savings accounts. People just take into account the money they expect from these products. A credible framework for resolution of an insurer that unexpectedly gets into the financial problems that De Nederlandsche Bank withdraws the licence, can contribute to this confidence in the insurance sector and to the protection of policy holders. This bill seems to be a step in the right direction. The insurance sector also indicates that this framework is in the interest of the whole sector and not just of the rotten apples in the sector. My group asked the Minister in what situations the intervention ladder that now exists is not sufficient and what exactly the changed process will look like. The Minister gave a comprehensive response to this in the written round. I have a few more questions about that. As soon as an insurer's capital falls below the required level, under the so-called solvency capital requirement, or as soon as the insurer expects this to happen within three months, the insurer must inform the supervisor accordingly. This seems to be a crucial moment for intervention. What are the possibilities for the supervisor if a malicious insurer fails to do so? For we are therefore dependent on the information that the supervisor receives at that time from the insurer himself, the supervised one. Within two months, the insurer will then have to present a recovery plan to the supervisor and within six months of the notification, the insurer will theoretically have to be healthy again. During this period the insurer will be under intensive supervision. At the moment when the insurer still has insufficient capital to meet the obligations, he will have another chance to present in the short term a plan stating how and when he will meet the requirements. The hard demand of up to six months seems to have been released. Is that right? So can an insurer, in principle, have a second chance of being under strict supervision and dangled by a thread for a much longer period of time than that six months, but the supervisor does not intervene? Or does it automatically enter a new deadline? Only after all these steps can the supervisor intervene and in the worst case therefore withdraw the insurer's licence and proceed to settlement of the insurer. But what if a malicious insurer is negligent and he informs the supervisor improperly or not in time during the process, is there another scenario in which the supervisor intervenes more quickly? Or should all these steps, in which we depend on the insurance company's cooperation, be followed? I am curious about the Minister's answers, but as I have said, my group is in principle positive about this law. It seems to be a necessary step in the right direction, protecting the interests of policy holders as much as possible while allowing for orderly resolution of the insurer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA, who has registered for four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u4	Quite correct, Mr President, thank you very much. The CDA is in favour of the law before us this afternoon. It is in everyone's interest that, in the event of an insurer's bankruptcy, it is not the taxpayers who pay for the costs, but the shareholders who are first looked at. That particular attention is paid to the position of the policy holder is crucial for us. After all, it is not the fault of someone who has taken out insurance that an insurer goes bankrupt. Although we agree, we still have a number of questions. The first concerns the European context. Several groups are calling for attention to be paid to this. Insurance companies are not only based in the Netherlands, but often also internationally. This calls for a European approach, just as we have done with banks. After all, at a time when there are major differences in the supervision and resolution of insurers, this can lead to problems. It can also lead to competitive disadvantage for Dutch insurers. If the rules in the Netherlands are much stricter than elsewhere, Dutch insurers are less able to compete with foreign companies. We find that undesirable. We look forward to the results of the discussions currently taking place at European level on this subject. That, as the Minister rightly points out, is no reason not to adopt this bill at the moment. It does not serve the policy holders. I would like to ask the Minister to keep this issue firmly on the agenda. I would also like to ask the Minister to introduce a nuance. The CDA Group is in favour of harmonised rules for resolution. In fact, it is very important that these harmonised rules are introduced. One step further, for example, would be an insurance union, whereby European insurers would have to contribute to the financing scheme, as actually laid down in this bill for all insurers established in the Netherlands. That is what my group wants to be a lot more cautious about. Does the Minister agree with this? This is important because the European Commission has been cautiously positive about an insurance union a few years ago. That is why we are on our guard and want to emphasise it again here. Finally, I have a few questions about the tax consequences. This bill may allow a policy holder to be paid an amount in the event of an insurer's bankruptcy. This could be a pension provision or annuity. This amount can be used to purchase the same product from another insurer. That's attractive, because if you don't do this, you'll immediately be confronted with the Tax Administration, which is heavily burdening your settlement payments through the income branch. But now it may be that no insurer will hire you, for example because you have become disabled since you took out your original insurance. Those people can't go anywhere and have to tap into the IRS. They may lose their fees. The damage could be in the thousands of euros. I ask the Minister whether this is an example that can really be seen in practice and, if so, whether the Minister agrees with me that we need to avoid such situations. I'd like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u6	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch government now has an impressive experience in nationalising, capitalizing and restructuring financial institutions. And anyone who wants to gain experience in mergers and acquisitions can't do anything better than at the Ministry of Finance. Each time, for a dozen or so employees in Finance, this means a difficult job, for hundreds of people in the sector the loss of their jobs and for thousands of people in this country unclear about their savings, their life insurance or any other financial service. Then, of course, it is a waste of their taxpayers' money for millions of Dutch people. In short, such bankruptcy only has losers. No wonder we are always looking for means to intervene more quickly if things are in danger of going wrong. The bill that we have before us now regulates this for insurers. With a new chapter 3A in the Financial Supervision Act, we streamline the instruments of De Nederlandsche Bank and ensure that insurers make themselves settleable. If things go wrong at the end of the intervention ladder, the group can be dismantled without unnecessary complications. In this respect, the bail-in at insurers differs substantially from the bail-in at banks. In the case of banks, it focuses on the continuity of the institution, in the case of insurers, on the continuity of the insurance contract. I'd like to hear it from the Minister if I'm wrong. Let me say these complicated sentences again in normal Dutch, because there are also people in the public gallery. If your insurance company goes bankrupt, you want to make sure your insurance policy just goes through. So we're gonna get this insurance company organized in such a way that we can fish the policy out of the bankrupt estate and move it somewhere else, and then we can clean up the rest of the insurance company a little bit. That's how I understood it, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. The VVD agrees with this bill. The downfall of an insurance company is causing great unrest, and you'd better get ahead of it. All things considered, the VVD agrees with the conclusion of the Council of State. The real added value is precisely that settlementability. We do have a few questions. The Netherlands anticipates a European regulation with this bill. The Minister states that this directive is not to be expected in the short term, but when? Solvency II does have an intervention ladder for insurers in difficulty, but it only partially provides for a recovery and not at all a resolution. Are we running the risk of a directive coming and that we will have to rewrite the whole of Chapter 3A? Or will the Commission simply base itself on that international resolution standard as endorsed by the Financial Stability Board? How do we avoid duplication in standards, capital requirements or regulations? Can the Minister give a more detailed account of the case of France described in the note following the report? How does the legislation relate to the legislation proposed here? I would also like to ask the Minister to address the issue of legal protection. In the current system, the civil court has an important place. It must approve the transfer plan or apply the emergency scheme. With this change of law, we give DNB all the control. I'm sure there's a price tag on that, but we just talked about that. DNB may appoint a special director to replace the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board, DNB may keep all creditors at bay and DNB may also simply change agreements. How does the Minister see the checks-and-balances that come with such a concentration of powers? I understand very well that in the current situation the judge has only a kind of marginal role. In an emergency, you just have to go ahead while that corridor slows down without much added value in terms of content. However, this legislative proposal will, in any case, make this ex post review even more important. It then pinches that we gave DNB and AFM extensive immunity from liability a few years ago. I've made this point before. Only in the case of intent and gross debt can supervisors be called upon. That made sense at the time in the credit crisis. There were all kinds of aggressive parties in the market that could make improper use of the right. But now there seems to be no room for reasonable compensation for damage by the supervisor, other than that of a bankrupt estate. Would the Minister care to comment on this? It would be a nice thing for me if we could have that immunity evaluated externally in order to get ahead of abuses. Mr. Chairman. The dynamics in the insurance world are great. Insurers disappear, sometimes due to financial problems, more often through mergers and acquisitions. I was nesting a bit on a nice ending to this section, something with "luckily I have more sense of insurance." But then I found out that nobody under 40 still knows what Victoria Vesta is, let alone they know those commercials. So I'm just gonna leave that alone. Anyway, the average well insured Dutchman wants to make sure that his policy just goes through. With this bill, we'll make that a little more certain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u7	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, my group supports this proposal. Three themes. The first is surprised that we still have to regulate this nationally and that it is not ahead of us. The second is about the risks in the insurance sector. The third is about the policy holders. I'm trying to understand how it's gonna work in practice. Europe first. There is no European legal framework for the resolution of insurers. I still find it strange that we have been working for years on a banking union, on rules for banks and even on bank resolution, but that the insurers are unable to do so. I think that's so crazy after the financial crisis. How is that even possible? How does the Minister explain that? Is it the European Commission? Are there any Member States that are obstructing this? What can we do to ensure that Europe too runs faster here, so that there is a level playing field and a level playing field in the insurance sector? The second is that there is also some sort of wonder when it comes to risks in the insurance sector. We had another conversation this morning with Klaas Knot and Laura of Spirit. They are now making these risk reports on the financial sector every year, and actually it has been in there for over a year: the banks are doing well, but we are worried about the insurers. This has something to do with low interest rates and profitability. Those paragraphs are always very short, but one or two paragraphs. I find it hard to figure out what the real risks are in the insurance sector. This could be systemic risks, which I do understand are a little less than in the banking sector. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to have some certainty about the development of risks in the insurance sector. I was intrigued by the specific question raised by the note on the SP report: what does this bill mean for the risks in the insurance sector, are they getting bigger or are they getting smaller? A very specific question in this regard is also a suggestion from the SP, which calls for thought to be given to whether risks may be delegated to one of the groups in large insurance groups. I was thinking about the discussion about the bath banks, but that's a policy. Here you could almost get "bad insurers" where the risk is transferred to one part of an insurance business which then goes bankrupt or is settled. Does the Minister see that risk or isn't there and we don't have to worry? Finally, something about the policy holders. That's a little more concrete about the law itself. Mr Van der Linde has already asked for this, so I can be brief about it. This bill is ultimately also about protecting policy holders. Now there are many different options: they can stay with the insurer, but with a discount on the claims, they can conclude a new agreement with another insurer, and there is even a possibility that they will receive compensation if the no-credit principle does not apply. How hard is the Minister's guarantee that policy holders do not actually fall back on the old legislation? Is there still a distinction between insured persons when it comes to the risk that has already materialised? I can imagine that, if you have taken out insurance but the risk has not yet occurred, it would be easier to take out a new policy or agree to lower claims than if, for example, you already have disability insurance and you are already disabled. How does that work with this law? I can't quite get a finger on that yet. Maybe in the end. Then I'm done, too, Mr. Paternotte. It's complicated. If an insurer gets into trouble, it's complex for the supervisors, but I think it's also complex for the policy holders. What choices are there then? Shouldn't there also be a role for the government to ensure that policy holders do not have to go after their rights themselves, but also get support in one way or another? I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u9	Mr Snels has taken an interesting holistic look at the bill. That makes me think too. I have one clear question to ask, because I did not see the point that the policy holder could be worse off than in the previous regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u10	No, that was a question to the Minister. I'm trying to understand in practice how the bill works. The principle of the bill is that policy holders should not be worse off than in the old situation, but how does that work? As an example, I raised the question of whether or not a risk materialized and asked whether it mattered. For example, if you are already disabled and you have disability insurance, that is a risk that has not yet occurred. It seems to me that it is rather complex to regulate and legislate, but it is important to have really protected the rights of policy holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u11	Thank you. This was a clarification of the question. I give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66 for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u12	Mr. Chairman. The advantage of a metaphor is that, even if you say the same thing, you still evoke a different image. Wasn't it Cicero who once said: "Insurances have many similarities with a visit to the dentist. It's not fun to do, but it's even less fun to structurally neglect it"? With the dentist it's a hole, but if you pay annuity premiums for years to supplement your pension and then see the insurer go bankrupt on your 64, you come home from a very cold carnival. It is therefore a good thing that this law polishes up our regime for settling insurance companies that are 'too precious to fail', as an alternative to the term we use for banks. During the crisis, we had to do it without a proper mechanism. We had to grab another drug. Fortis and SNS Reaal made the State their own insurer for a while, but fortunately these companies are now back on the market with both legs. In the future there will be a plan B: a healthier market, in which companies compete on quality, the favor of the customer and the price. So the company could go bankrupt. This applies to insurers as much as to the Blokker or the V&D. If your products don't knock, if you're not customer-friendly or if you're more expensive than the competitor, you won't make it. The only difference with Blokker and V&D is dealt with by this law: what is the effect on policy holders and indirectly on confidence in insurers and the financial system? That is the contamination and systemic risk, as Mr Snels also mentioned. Accommodation with other insurers and the advance from the estate before the verification meeting to avoid direct personal problems are solid and good mechanisms. The question is whether this provides sufficient clarity for the consumer. The Consumers' Association was more critical of this proposal, because there is, of course, always a risk to the consumer. The question is whether it knows where it stands through the trees of bail-ins, NCWO standards and regulations, what risks it runs and what rights it still has. In other words: does a consumer know exactly what he is getting into when he closes an annuity policy? You might actually need a financial package leaflet for it, you might say. I'd like a response from the Minister. First of all, in the event of bankruptcy, people quickly get security. That's good. This is particularly true when they are dependent on income insurance for part of their income. Therefore, it is necessary to make clear in advance what capital the insurer has and what exactly is eligible for resolution. For example, in the event of a sudden bankruptcy, a well-thought-out plan can immediately fall back on. So our question to the Minister is: is the crisis plan also making it clear what is happening with current insurance? Mr. Chairman. In the law, DNB is appointed as settlement agent. DNB already prepares a settlement plan in advance, whether or not in consultation with the insurer. This brings clarity and speed. DNB can also enforce an adjustment of the organisation if it makes possible settlement easier. This power can significantly interfere with the day-to-day operations of an insurer. The question is what happens when DNB and the insurer disagree about changes in the organisation. Can they then go to a mediator or a third, independent party for a test on their dispute? What scope does the insurer have to make adjustments to his organisation cost-effective? It is essential that a resolution mechanism reduces uncertainty among policy holders and contributes to a strong sector with healthy insurers. Let me say a few words about Europe, because the resolution of banks has long been organised at European level. That makes sense, because banks are often located in different countries. But the same applies to large insurers, of course, and insurers can operate here from any EU country. That is why this European approach has been coming for some time. It is logical that we want to implement this final piece for settlement in the Netherlands as soon as possible. As the Minister also writes, the bill is of some age. At the same time, the Minister also writes that some European countries are now preparing a similar law. France was mentioned. If this creates differences between the resolution mechanisms in different Member States, how will this work, also because these insurers can, of course, also operate in the Netherlands? Does the Minister agree with us that a patchwork of other systems is preventing rapid and orderly settlement? Can the Minister also reflect on what differences seem to arise now? That was also a question from Mr Van der Linde, but also what problems that might lead to? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister. He's asking for a 15-minute suspension. I'll make it 20 minutes. We'll continue at 5:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u14	The next item is the legislative proposal for a law on the recovery and settlement of insurers. The Minister is going to answer the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Chamber for the large number of questions on this subject, which may seem small, and for some almost philosophical questions. I would like to make a few brief comments and then look at the questions put by the various speakers on a subject-by-matter basis. It is good to point out once again that Dutch insurers are dealing with a strong prudential framework and that DNB is right to monitor this closely, but that these rules cannot always prevent an insurer from getting into trouble. We all know, especially after the crisis, that the failure of an insurer also means that the policy holders can get into serious trouble, and that then again some members referred to it may cause great social unrest. That's very undesirable. What we want to do with each other, and whatever this bill is about, is to try to limit that damage as much as possible in a timely and effective manner. We are putting the interests of policy holders first and foremost. I believe that this is a gain, and I thank all the Members who have, at least in essence, expressed their support for it. The first question I would like to answer is from Mr Snels. He asked if it's really true that insured people aren't worse off with a bail-in than with bankruptcy. The answer is very simple: yes, we are sure of that. I can give the firm guarantee that the insured person who has to deal with this is also better off. The policy holder does not have to go after the good news either, I think. An independent expert will also calculate that the policy holder is better off and will then check whether the so-called NCWO rule is met. Mr Van der Linde asked the very right question as to what the difference is with banks. We didn't talk about it that long ago about the bail-in at banks. He is right to say that there are similarities, but there are also great differences. There is one specific, very important difference that I would just like to highlight very strongly. There is, of course, the great danger of a bank run in a bank, because in theory that money is, in any case, to a large extent immediately payable. That is different with an insurer, because he has often invested the money for a very long time. So that's something to keep in mind. That is the first part of my answer to the question put by Mr Van der Linde. Secondly, he asked whether it was true that we in the insurer were mainly trying to keep the policy holder alive. Of course, he's right about that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked for the following in this category; I am talking at the moment about the things that are actually closest to the legislative proposal itself. If the risk hasn't occurred yet, can you go to another insurance company more easily? Is that right? That's right, of course. If you want to go to another insurer because your own insurer is bankrupt, there is also a good chance that with the amount you receive you will not be able to take out insurance with another insurer at the same cost. That's why you have the claim for damages. But, of course, those are really two different things. I think he sees that in general, but it is complicated to compare those two case positions completely. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second, rather extensive block: Europe. I think all Members referred to that. Mr Paternotte referred to it, Mr Van der Linde spoke about it and I heard Mr Snels. The question they have all asked, or what they have referred to in their text, is: why is there no European proposal? Isn't that crazy? Yeah, in a way, that's crazy. That's part of the honest answer. You'd want that to happen. The Netherlands also wants that to happen. One of the reasons is that there are large differences between the insurance sectors in the different Member States. Some Member States do not have large life insurance companies and therefore feel less urgent. It is therefore an even richer landscape as far as possible in terms of variation than the banking landscape. Some Member States are then in favour of a guarantee system instead of a resolution framework, and some Member States do not want anything at all. I think Mr Paternotte specifically asked: how much longer are we going to wait? Well, at least the European Commission has indicated that a new Commissioner will have to come in before an initiative is taken. There's nothing else I can do. I see Mr Paternotte looking at the ceiling. It'd be good if it did. Then Mr Paternotte, and I think Mr Snels, asked whether I agree that a patchwork of national regulations is undesirable, and what the consequences are; let me just say it in my words. For the record, the cabinet is in favour of harmonisation. I think I have tasted that the Chamber is also important in terms of harmonization. That makes it simpler and probably better. But, of course, we need a lot of those other Member States. Mr Van der Linde and Mr Paternotte asked how our proposal relates to the French proposal. I am going to say something positive about the European context. The French proposal is very similar to our proposal. They're going a long way in the same direction. France is also interestingly in favour of the possibility of a bail-in which is one of the differences, but would like to settle this in a European context. Of course, you could use the enthusiasm of the Commission to continue along the lines of those countries that are the furthest. The French and Dutch situation will then be looked at. At least I hope so, and I will try to enter it. Does that give you guarantees? Does that give the guarantee, for example, that I say in the direction of Mr Van der Linde, that we should not then do some of the homework again? Unfortunately, no, but the French and Dutch proposals, when both have been transposed into legislation, could really help to point the way. In this connection, Mr Ronnes asked two more questions. One was whether I could keep the subject of harmonisation on the agenda. His second question was whether I can explain that I am against an insurance union. I agree with both points. We must keep it on the agenda, and the Netherlands is not in favour of an insurance union. Mr. Chairman. I think those were the questions in the European block. I'm just gonna take a quick look and see if I've brought everyone. I think I did. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm at another rather extensive block, which is about supervision and DNB. I shall begin with Mr Alkaya's question. He asked, "What if a party is too bad faith?" That is how I interpreted his question: what if a party deliberately and knowingly tries to deceive the supervisor? That is, of course, a very logical question. There are a lot of checks-and-balances built in. It might be good to mark them all after all. DNB receives quarterly supervisory information. So it's not like DNB doesn't have any insight into that. DNB may also check the consistency of that supervisory information. DNB also actively monitors its integrity. DNB also conducts monitoring interviews. Of course, information can come out of this. Where, for example, DNB sees a reduction in solvency, DNB can also decide on additional supervision. I think that's a lot of guarantees already. Besides, of course, you still have the things that always apply. Mr Alkaya will be aware of this. There are always integrity tests with respect to the driver. There's always an external accountant. There's always an actuary. Is that enough to rule it out? No, of course not, but I think Mr Alkaya would like to know if we will be there in time to lift it above water. I can't guarantee that, but that's plausible if you see how strongly we've regulated this. Let us also acknowledge that: we have organized a great deal here to raise problems. I think that's quite right, too. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya also asked about the possibility of intervention if the insurer does not report any threat of failure. Again, insurers regularly report on solvency. I just said that for a while. If it is true that this is really a rather exceptional situation, if they do not present the correct figures, then the sanction regime is simply applicable. Fines are then also among the measures that can be taken. In Mr Paternotte's question there was a similar question which he asked me earlier. What happens if DNB and the insurer don't agree? Isn't it true that the inspector is no longer being checked? At least that's how I interpreted it. However, normal administrative law applies, with opposition and appeal. Objection takes place at DNB, but then you can definitely go to court. In this particular case, you will go to the judge in Rotterdam. You can then even appeal that again and in this case you have to go to the College of Occupation for Business. This seems to me to be a subject for evaluation. I say this to Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Linde, who spoke more broadly about the concentration of powers at DNB. There is absolutely no question of immunity, but this seems to me to be a point to take into account in the five-year evaluation we are doing anyway. Because I think this type of insight is actually working the way we think it should work? - Oh, yeah. - Oh, yeah? But the formal route to the judge is therefore open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u16	I have a question about immunity. I get that you're gonna be right in court, but then you're gonna tell on the leftover estate. But you can never tell stories on DNB or AFM for mistakes made there. And if there's nothing left in that estate, you can't make it right. That's where the pain is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u17	Yeah, and I can see that. At present, it is so arranged that DNB can only be addressed in the event of intent or gross negligence. I think we can agree on that. That means that the supervisor has no immunity either. But we need to realize in what kind of context this is. You would have a very hectic situation with conflicting interests. Mr Van der Linde, or it was Mr Paternotte, also said that in such a situation of a lot of hecticness you also want to set the standard of liability of the supervisor very high. Because if you don't put it very high, then you create a completely different problem. DNB is an administrative body that takes decisions. This means, of course, that you want administrative legal protection, but then afterwards rather than prior civil law consent. That's just the model we organized. To be honest, I thought I had made an extremely generous commitment to both gentlemen on the interrupting microphone, so Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Linde, but perhaps I should not have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u18	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u19	Just for a little while, though. We have deliberately chosen to include some sort of Anglo-Saxon fremdkörper in the supervisory structure, because we do not know immunity at all for public bodies. That's what we did in the time that hedge funds threatened DNB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u20	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u21	That's what happened. That's why I came up with the idea of an evaluation. But thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u22	Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u23	I was chewing on the Anglo-Saxon fremdkörper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u24	Yeah, I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u25	My question is this. The resolution itself is, of course, an appealable decision. Is the resolution plan that insurers should draw up at all in consultation with DNB also a decision that could possibly be appealed against if one does not agree on this? Of course, that plan is not yet necessary, in the sense that it must be drawn up even if an insurer is not yet bankrupt or will never go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u26	Maybe I can go into the first: the promise and the Anglo-Saxon fremdkörper. The combination of those words was also reason for me to think about it, but I'd like to make that expression mine. That is exactly why I am serious about the fact that I think it would be useful to evaluate it. At the same time we did it for very good reasons, even if it is Anglo-Saxon and even if it is a fremdkörper. So I do want to evaluate it, but I also do not want to pretend that we have actually taken a path that we should leave as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). As far as I know, the answer is no, but if necessary, I will come back to that in the second term. I see all heads nodding, so I'll come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u27	I see Mr Paternotte looking surprised. Because the answer to the question is no, maybe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u28	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u29	I'll get back to you. His question was whether you can work with that legally. I don't think that's possible, but I'll give you a little more context in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u30	For that second term: if DNB and the insurer do not agree on this, which of course has some implications, the question is indeed what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u31	I suspected that was the question that would come from behind. I'll take that with me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u32	So there are two questions that you will answer in the second term. What happens if they don't agree? And what is the room to argue against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u33	More precisely, I think we agree that this possibility does not exist. If necessary, I'll get back to you on that. I think Mr Paternotte's really interesting question is of course: yes, and then what? I've been talking about the board judge. Mr Snels also considered the "what if" scenarios. Mr Alkaya had one and Mr Snels had one. What he said, I interpret it like this: what if you're of evil will, but perhaps not so much with the same connotation as Mr. Alkaya sketched and tries to accommodate all misery with a daughter? Is it possible that that way you're gonna throw away your risks? The answer is no, and I have to say straight away that there are no 100% guarantees. Solvency II requires all insurers in a group to meet the solvency requirements separately. Mr Snels will recognize that. In addition, there are guidelines for the group as a whole. That already makes it considerably less attractive to say: I found a daughter somewhere and I do this all as a gift. DNB must also intervene at the time of non-compliance. So DNB has a view on that and has to take action on it as well. Moreover, damage and life activities must not be combined. For the transfer of insurance portfolios within a group you also need permission from the supervisor once more. If you add all that together, you can see that we have no shortage of regulation here either. I think it is right to note this about the full breadth of this sector. I can't say it's never gonna happen, but I don't think the odds are too great. Then there is a question that we have asked ourselves, namely whether the consumer knows what he is up to. I didn't say for nothing that this is almost a philosophical question, because insurers have to publish a lot about their financial position. That's right. Then, of course, the question is whether the consumer is, on average, able to take all of this into account and therefore take into account the decision where he or she is insured. If you could take that information, it is also always a question of whether it is sufficient. I think the essence here is that there is a market in which there is information asymmetry. That's why we have a supervisor. It must ensure that you as a consumer do not have to do endless additional research. So I don't know if an additional package leaflet is going to be a panacea here. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Snels asked if I could comment on the risks in the insurance sector. That's a fair question. I think that Mr Alkaya once called me to Question Time with regard to the damage sector. At that time, I indicated that this is an extremely competitive market with flimsy margins. At the time, it was about the possibilities for young people, or rather 18-plussers, to take out insurance that was becoming increasingly expensive. At that time I tried to indicate that it is really a fighting market and that insurers are having a very difficult time at all. They're really in a different parquet than a lot of couches. The life insurance sector also suffers from low interest rates and competition from the banking sector. Most of the spokesmen here know that, too. So it's hard for me to say anything concrete about specific case positions, but the sector just doesn't have it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u34	My question was actually even more abstract. In fact, we know a lot more about the risks in the banking sector, because we also monitor them much more and report much more about them than about the insurance world. Perhaps the Minister could talk to De Nederlandsche Bank and the CPB to see if they could pay more attention to this when they write the annual monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u36	Those are always very short paragraphs, while perhaps a little more colour can be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u37	I would like to say that to Mr Snels. I understand he thinks those paragraphs are a little short. It also has to do with putting it under the same umbrella and then comparing it with each other. Then we come to the conclusion that the banking sector and the insurance sector are very different in all kinds of ways, but not in the last place, and I say this to Mr Van der Linde because you do not have something like a potential bank run here. I would like to say to Mr Snels that I will return to the Chamber at some point. Then there is Mr Snels' very last question, the last question I have here at all. He asked if the bill would change the extent of the risks to insurers. The answer is no, because this is about how we address the problems of insurers for policy holders as best we can. I think I have had everything but Mr Ronnes' question on taxation. He asked how we deal with the tax consequences of a bankruptcy benefit and how it is prevented from affecting the policy holder. At least that's how I understood his question. For the record, and in order to clear up any misunderstanding, I say that the tax authorities obviously do not want to take advantage of bankruptcy. It is precisely in order not to create an undesirable situation that the tax authorities have ample opportunity to regulate specific and special situations in a policy decision, as it is called. Experience also shows that the tax authorities use that space. I am thinking, for example, of DSB. The advantage of such a solution in policy decisions rather than legislation, for example, is that the decision can actually be tailored to that particular group. I think that works well and that should reassure Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u38	Partly, because someone who makes an individual tax return, when he is not aware of it and is very honest, just pays the full pound. Is there not something to do from the other side, for example an active obligation to provide information to the final consumer, in which those whose insurance is settled are reminded that there is such a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u39	That's a good question. I can hardly imagine that there will be no communication when such a situation arises that Mr Ronnes and I see appearing before our mind's eye, but it is also rather complicated to define exactly what communication should be. I'm gonna think about that for another two minutes. I'll get back to you in second term. I think I answered all the questions. I had Victoria Vesta visit again for the first time in about thirty years, but I admit that this was particularly relevant to the 40-plussers in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u40	I'm looking at the members. All questions have been answered. All I had left was the point of harmonization, but not an insurance union. We hadn't heard that word yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u41	I answered that to Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u42	Fine. Then everyone's happy. Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I note that only Mr Ronnes needs that. Mr. Ronnes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u43	Mr. Chairman. I was just considering putting forward a motion on the insurance union issue. Given the clear commitment the Minister does make, I do not want to do so. I would like to use this second term to clarify once again whether we mean exactly the same thing. The Commission's insurers launched the report "New life for insurers" in 2015, in which it advocates a central role in an insurance union. That soon gives the expectation that this means a bit the same as the banking union. To clarify the definition, my question to the Minister is therefore once again whether the government does not want to take steps towards an insurance union involving the sharing of risks between Member States and systems, such as a single resolution fund. Can the Minister clarify that at least we do not want that to happen with each other? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u44	Thank you. The Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u45	Mr. Chairman. In order to deal with the latter immediately, I can make a firm commitment to Mr Ronnes. Mr. Chairman. I think there's one more thing I have to do. I have to go with Mr Paternotte into the caverns of administrative law. The question is whether the plan is in itself a decision. The answer to that is no. The plan is a strategy document of DNB itself. If there is a "but" impact on the insurer itself, for example an indication of DNB, it is... Mr Paternotte nods in a way that immediately upsets me, because it suggests that he knows much more about administrative law than I do. In order to remove an obstacle, it is then a decision. It is therefore possible to object and appeal against it. In general administrative law you should be affected by a decision anyway before you have the possibility to appeal or appeal at all. Many of the members of the Chamber will recognize that. Mr. Chairman. I owe Mr Ronnes one last point from the first term: the obligation to provide information. DNB and the tax authorities will at least communicate proactively in such a situation. I believe that we have solved the problem towards the potential victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u46	I'm looking at the members. It's all taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-13.u47	We will be voting on the amendments and the law next Tuesday. That concludes this debate. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
