ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now proceed with the examination of the proposal for a law amending the Education and Vocational Training Act and the Education and Vocational Training Act BES, in particular because of the legal anchoring of the cooperation college and the maintenance of unique vocational training (34691). We are holding this debate with the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and with almost the same spokesmen as on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a legislative amendment that allows several MBO institutions to offer education together. This legislative proposal also provides for a better guarantee of the existence of small-scale training. An important reason for this proposal is the decrease in the number of pupils in vocational education. GroenLinks finds that worrying. In our opinion, this has everything to do with the idea of excellence put forward by the previous cabinet. Young people are motivated by their environment and their parents to go mainly to the havo or vwo, and not to the mbo. We would like to talk to the Minister another time about this trend, because it does vocational education and what that has to offer is inadequate. But first, today's bill on cooperation colleges and exclusive rights. It is an important proposal concerning the maintenance of unique training and access to education in, in particular, shrinking regions. The Achterhoek, where I come from, is such a shrinking region. The decline in the number of pupils has a significant impact on education. In primary and secondary education, it is mainly about whether we can keep schools open for fewer and fewer pupils. In vocational education, we are also talking about how we can keep up programmes where there are few students, but which are still indispensable. My group certainly welcomes the fact that the cabinet is paying attention to shrinkage and its consequences, especially in the MBO. However, we would like to make a number of comments on this proposal. In short, GroenLinks broadly agrees with the proposal, but we think it can be done even better. Mr. Chairman. In theory, an educational institution in Maastricht may cooperate with, for example, a rock in Leeuwarden. It can happen that students, teachers and support staff, who first studied and worked in Maastricht, suddenly have to go to Leeuwarden or vice versa. This law does not guarantee this situation, while we can imagine that travel time will be a major obstacle in the event of such cooperation. My group therefore believes that both workers and students should support the decision to set up such a cooperation college in which work and education take place elsewhere. In our view, this also provides a basis for such a decision. Moreover, employees and students are the ones who experience the direct consequences. We were going to make an amendment to this, but that turned out to be quite a jigsaw. Our first thought was to arrange, through an amendment, the agreement of students and employees on the participation council. But we soon found that such a proposal would be more far-reaching than the rights of participation in a merger, for example. We didn't think that was entirely appropriate, although I find it strange that the rights in mergers are not better guaranteed. You can at least expect students and employees to join in and take part in decisions of this kind. That is why we are tabling an amendment that is consistent with the articles in the Education and Vocational Education Act. That was sent to colleagues this morning. The amendment provides that the works council and the council of participants must meet to discuss the plans to form a cooperation college with each other. That consultation is aimed at agreement. If this does not work, there will be a right of advice for the individual sections. The Student Council or the Student Council can then still advise to be for or against. This is not a procedure that GroenLinks devised. It is the same procedure that we found in the law and which is followed in the case of mergers. It is therefore intended to facilitate consultation and to get out with each other. I hope that with this explanation I have given some clarity as to why we believe that this amendment does better justice to the participation of students and staff than to the existing right of advice. Moreover, this jigsaw confirmed once again that participation is not good in the MBO and that the rights of employees and students are lagging behind in the other educational sectors. We have already talked about this this morning. This brings me to another point. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, once that cooperation college has been set up, the participation of employees and students must be well organised. When the decentralised participation is regulated, a cooperation college remains a separate case. So even if we have made sure that there is decentralised good participation, it is still the question of how to manage that well at such a cooperation college where two different training courses work together. In the documents, the Minister writes that the participation of the various institutions themselves is important. These existing councils can, for example, ensure that students of a cooperation college can make their voice heard in the existing participants' councils through the right of assent to the co-decision rules. For example, they can write in the electoral rules that a student of the cooperation college is always represented on the board of participants of the institution. Our question to the Minister is whether she thinks it wise to reserve a separate place in this way. Does this guarantee that students of the cooperation college are also sufficiently represented? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, participation that is much closer to the programme would also be a better way to represent students. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. I also mentioned that falling student numbers are an important reason for this bill. This has to do with population decline but also with the image of the MBO. At primary school the pressure starts to score as best as possible at the final, but also many vmbo students want to go to the havo or are pushed by their environment, while we get a shortage of professionals. In previous debates, the Minister has indicated that she shares this view and therefore believes that the MBO deserves a better image. We'd like to think about that with her. Because according to GroenLinks and in my opinion all parties here, the quality of education is particularly important, also for the image. But also involved staff and students ensure better education and therefore a better image of that education. Through the Youth Organisation Vocational Education we were reminded once again that students within the MBO are referred to in the law as "participants." It is striking that the explanatory memorandum also refers to this law or to students. I would like to ask the Minister what is causing this. Is there, for example, a legal distinction between the terms "participants" and "students"? If not, could the Minister, like JOB, the Youth Organisation for Vocational Education, ask everywhere in this law to replace the word "participant" with "student"? We don't know if that's possible. Hence the question to the Minister. Finally, Mr President. My group considers this amendment to be necessary, but we must be sure that this change in law does not lead to a reduction in quality or a reduction in accessibility. We would like to ask the Minister how she takes care of it or how she monitors that everything is going well. We would also like to ask her whether she is going to evaluate this law in a few years' time. If she's going to evaluate it, will she include those two criteria I just mentioned, quality and accessibility, in the evaluation? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'm afraid we're gonna get back into all sorts of semantic discussions. What is wrong, I would like to ask Mrs Westerveld, with the expression "I'm learning for a profession"? What's wrong with the wonderful profession of teacher or master? Why does everyone have to be a teacher? Why not all professors or professors? That sounds even better. That's gonna be an endless story. It's an inflation of terms. Learning for a course on an MBO is fine. There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	I fully agree with Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I now turn to Mr El Yassini on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't know Mrs. Westerveld had finished so quickly. So I walked back to take a sip of water, but it was my turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yeah, it's that fast. Sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr President, thank you, today we are discussing the legal anchoring of cooperation colleges and the maintenance of unique vocational training. We believe that this is a really good development. First of all, I would like to address the challenges in the labour market. Those challenges are big. In a number of sectors, we are facing major labour market shortages. Already, we are faced with a shortage of about 215,000 professional professionals at MBO level. Demographic developments will only increase these deficits in the future. The need for the right people with the right courses will only increase, also because Dutch secondary vocational education will be faced with a decline in the number of students in the coming years. This is partly due to a decrease in the number of young people and partly because more and more young people opt for the HAVO after VMBO. The number of students attending MBO training is expected to decrease by almost 63 000 in 2030. This means that MBO schools will face semi-empty schoolrooms in certain valuable courses in the future. Half-empty premises are simply not financially feasible for MBO schools. This threatens to disappear valuable training, while there is still demand from students and the labour market. We do not want programmes that are popular with young people but actually offer no perspective on the labour market to prevail, as MBO schools shift their focus from quality, accessibility and accessibility of education to improper competition on student numbers. We don't want that. The VVD sees that the sharp decline in student numbers and their possible consequences call for action. That's why we're going to give education that space. The present bill anticipates the effects of shrinkage on MBO institutions. By facilitating cooperation between schools, the supply gap should be avoided. The aim is to maintain the valuable courses mentioned above, including for future generations. In order to maintain the supply of training and facilitate cooperation, the Education and Vocational Training Act makes it possible to cooperate between two or more training courses. With a cooperation college, it is therefore easier to provide one or more training together. However, the VVD also wants to prevent students from being left to choose and that MBO institutions lose the incentive to distinguish themselves on quality because of less competition. Moreover, these cooperation colleges should not become disguised mergers. That's why the VVD wants to see some safeguards. In fact, the legislative proposal provides that where 50% of students enrolled in an institution are in education in a cooperative college, a financial sanction is possible. If the institution exceeds 40%, it will then be obliged to report to the Minister. This is indeed intended to prevent these disguised mergers. We agree on that, too. However, we think that these percentages are too high. A large MBO institution can easily involve thousands of students who are housed in a cooperation college. We are tabling an amendment to reduce these percentages to 30 and 40 respectively. The proposal also lacks an evaluation clause. The VVD has understood that, in my view, the Christian Union has seen that we are just passing by and will be tabling an amendment to this effect. We understand that the amendment also calls for attention to be paid to the motives of institutions for starting cooperation. I have not read that, but I will put a few more questions to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. But we support this amendment on the evaluation clause. We also consider this provision to be very important. The legislative proposal also regulates cooperation between funded institutions. It is precisely in the context of shrinkage that providers other than those financed can also be interesting for partnerships. However, the VVD also sees that this has hooks and eyes. However, we do want this to be investigated, in order to really explore the opportunities and opportunities that exist. Together with D66 we will table a motion in the second term to explore these possibilities, develop them further and allow an experiment. In addition, we agreed in the coalition agreement to promote the transfer of students from practical education to the MBO. I ask the Minister how such a cooperation college can help in this. The allocation of an exclusive right to small and unique training is good, but we would like to point out to the Minister that this should remain an ultimatum remedium. We want the Minister to always inform the Chamber of its decisions on the exclusive right of small and unique training. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. The VVD will continue to work for the perspectives of current and future MBO students. We would also like to draw attention to the challenges of staff shortages, labour market integration and automation and robotisation in the 21st century. These developments also have an impact on the training, work and income of the present and future generations. The cabinet's proposal to facilitate cooperation between schools through this legislative amendment is one of the many steps we still have to take to respond to a changing society. This society needs an MBO education that can monitor and respond to the changes. That is what we are advocating and that is what the VVD stands for. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see Mr. Kwint is still stuck in my beautiful hometown of Voorburg. I wish him a lot of pleasure in that. It's not a babylonic punishment, as I understand from his colleague Futselaar. It is the town where Spinoza wrote his Ethica.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	Look who's coming in!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	Hey, there he is! Have you had a lot of fun in my hometown of Voorburg, Mr. Kwint?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	It was beautiful!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	Wonderful, then. Perhaps I should also advise you to travel by car instead of the socialist transport of the NS. I'll just be here in 12 minutes, storm or not. Mr. Chairman. Together, you're strong. That's the adage that best fits this law amendment. In the future, MBO will face falling numbers of pupils. That can be bad for the MBO, with a large number of very expensive training courses. If we don't do something, we'll be dealing with survival strategies like the MBO has always been very good at it. I've experienced it in person. Strong competition with fellow schools in the region, reducing where possible, cutting back and pinning as long as possible and closing at the end of the story. You can and you can't. This amendment of the law is in line with that. The removal of obstacles to the creation of a cooperation college will secure the supply of high-quality MBO in the regions. Mr. Chairman. The proposals at the heart of the legislative proposal are solutions to anticipate these challenges. We do have a few comments to make. Among other things, the PVV has questions about the Council of State's opinion that the section of the proposal on the exclusive right should be deleted. The Council states that this is not sufficiently motivated and that the MBO has long established self-regulatory mechanisms aimed at maintaining small-scale training relevant to labour market demand. Does the Minister have so little faith in the Foundation Collaboration Vocational Education Business Life, the SBB, and does she have so little confidence in the committee's macro-efficiency that she intends to introduce this statutory exclusive right? Because it's quite a measure. Then why does she have so little faith? I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We have also looked with interest at the opinion of the Council of State that many problems arise in less far-reaching cooperation than the Cooperation College. There are many forms of cooperation, and why not, often born of need. There are also problems with the registration of pupils, the exchange of data and so on. The Council considers it desirable that we also consider whether the solutions found in this legislative amendment to the formal cooperation colleges can work for the less formal forms of cooperation. We must avoid, the PVV says, that at the end of the day there is only one solution: the solution in the form of the cooperation college. We believe that it should remain attractive for schools that are not yet ready for formal cooperation to remain independent, while maintaining their own identity and profiling. How does the Minister feel about that? I'd like a reaction to that. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. We will support the part in which the education inspection finds that training continues to be inadequate can, if necessary, deprive the funding or examination rights by learning process rather than the whole of training, which is a far too rough measure. This is a justified change. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. Then I'll go to Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for the Cooperation College is an opportunity requested by the sector itself to enable the necessary cooperation which is often difficult to achieve in practice. We expect this proposal to also create more new and small-scale organisations close to professional practice. In the report, however, the CDA expressed concerns about unintended side effects of the Co-operation College. It cannot be the intention that the proposals for a cooperation college should lead unintentionally to incentives for the merging of institutions, while we are only trying to make cooperation easier. It is important that there should be sufficient small-scale institutions in vocational education and that is why we have tabled an amendment together with Mr El Yassini to remove this unintended incentive to merge. Then I come to the exclusive right of unique training. With regard to the exclusive right, we have asked many questions in the written report. It is true that it is an ultimatum remedium, as the Minister replies, but we also see that there is criticism of the added value of this exclusive right. Both the Council of State and the MBO Council are critical on this point. The MBO Council is more in favour of self-regulation. On the other side of the spectrum there are a number of small vocational training courses that welcome the introduction of exclusive rights, just like the SME Netherlands, because they think this will help them. I think we all agree with the problem. It is important to maintain small unique training courses up to often old crafts, even if the training is the only one in the Netherlands and attracts so few students that it is hardly financially able to work for the institution. It is important knowledge and craftsmanship that are taught on these courses and they must not be lost in the Netherlands. We think that sometimes unorthodox measures are needed to prevent, for example, the training of reed cutters and reed deckers in the Netherlands. As our roofs are increasingly covered with cheap and high quality Chinese reeds, there is less and less need for the knowledge and craftsmanship of these reed cutters, but for our nature areas the work of these reed cutters is very important, for example for nature reserve de Weerribben near Giethoorn. We should not want to have to get reed cutters from abroad to keep our nature reserves beautiful. On the other hand, with the exclusive right, we are giving such unique training a kind of monopoly position for five years, with no other initiatives for this training being launched by other institutions within that period. The labour market is changing rapidly, including in five years. In this way you can unintentionally prevent another institution from attracting interested students elsewhere in the country because they find the existing unique education too far traveling. The CDA needs a more detailed explanation from the Minister of why this ultimatum remedium is needed. Is it already sufficiently clear that self-regulation, financial incentives and, for example, opportunities that the College of Cooperation will soon be able to offer are insufficient to prevent the conclusion of unique training courses? The CDA would like to provide additional guarantees within that exclusive right. Is it possible to build in an intermediate moment within the five-year period, which will examine whether the exclusive right is still needed? Or is it not necessary and can training be maintained through a financial measure? Or is there a demand for such training elsewhere in the country? In addition, we want to keep a close eye on the quality of this unique training under the exclusive right. Are there sufficient incentives for training to continuously strive for quality improvement? We are considering a motion or amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen. I see Mr Bruins is back, good morning. I call Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is extremely proud of our vocational education. Our country is run by well-educated MBOs. We all know the wonderful examples of the unique vocational training courses, such as the Instrumentmakers School in Leiden or the restoration and restoration courses for carpenter and bricklayer carried out by the RIBO Foundation together with the ROC of Twente. The power of our MBO is also recognised internationally. In 2016, our education system was reviewed by international experts in the OECD System Review. What jumped from that were the praises about the MBO in the Netherlands. I quote: "The strong vocational education plays a key role in the good performance of the Dutch education system," they said. This recognition of teachers and school leaders in the MBO is not enough. In the Netherlands, the MBO schools are well equipped and perform well, with strong links to the labour market. At the latter, the colleges in our country can still suck a little bit. The transition from school to work is smoother in the Netherlands than in most other countries. A strong MBO and a good training offer are simply extremely important. But the world is changing. Occupations are changing and the MBO is also facing declining numbers of pupils. That is why it is important for us to talk today about ways of maintaining unique vocational training and, even in times of shrinking, to keep the educational supply in the MBO recognizable and accessible. Together, institutions can form a cooperation college, which offers opportunities to maintain training, including in regions where the number of pupils is falling. Collaborative colleges offer opportunities to strengthen cooperation with regional business and increase labour market relevance. Cooperation should not lead to a disguised merger. The bill states that a cooperation college is allowed as long as the majority of its registered participants do not attend education within such a college. That is a wide margin, as far as the Christian Union is concerned. How did the Minister arrive at this definition, I ask her. My group strongly supports the amendment which regulates the obligation to notify 30% and the payment of 40%. These are clear and unambiguous margins. But what if a cooperation college grows across the border and too many students from one of the institutions receive education in the cooperation college? A financial sanction is then possible, as the explanatory statement states. Can the Minister please indicate how she would intend to act? The other side is that the College of Cooperation should not be used as a postponement of execution when more drastic measures are actually needed to deal with the blows of shrinkage. Ultimately, institutions themselves are best placed to assess which solution is the best. My group agrees with the choice not to pre-examine requests. But the Christian Union does want to know the effects of this law. The bill does not provide for an evaluation. I have therefore tabled an amendment to put into practice the effectiveness and effects of this law after four years. It will also be possible to see whether the margins proposed by Mr El Yassini's amendment are working properly. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to my amendment. The legislative proposal also provides for the possibility of granting an institution the exclusive right to specific and unique vocational training. The Christian Union agrees with the Minister that the maintenance of small and unique training is of great value if there is a labour market perspective. If self-regulation fails, the granting of exclusive rights can be a last resort to maintaining specific and unique vocational training. Can the Minister explain how, in practice, it will be judged that the exclusive right is indeed the last option? The bill only looks at a cooperation college for two funded institutions, but much technical and specialist craftsmanship finds its way through the non-costed training courses and the business schools. How is the position of, for example, the business schools that have entered into a partnership with an MBO institution in the context of this law? What is the Minister's view of the boundary between funded and non-paid education when it comes to maintaining unique vocational training, also in the context of the debate on lifelong learning which should really start in the coming years? Finally, Mr President. The Christian Union Group believes that this bill can contribute to keeping our wonderful vocational education up to date. That gives students the chance to develop to the maximum. In addition, these professionals are indispensable for our economy and our society. But we're not here with this yet. We would like to remain in talks with the Minister about technical and specialist craftsmanship, our golden hands for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	I may have missed it for a while, but I know that the Christian Union often draws attention to the motives of institutions for starting cooperation. Does Mr Bruins foresee that we will receive a response from the Minister on this point? Does he want to transform that within the amendment he is about to table, or does he want to table a separate motion on it? How's he gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	I think it is very important that the evaluation I propose also evaluates the motivation of institutions to establish a cooperation college. That's very important. I'll wait for the Minister's answers. I can imagine that I am still putting it into the amendment. A firm commitment could be possible. A motion could be a motion. I just need to take a look. In any case, the Acts state that I consider the motivation of institutions to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Currently, there is a rich range of MBO programmes, but this offer is under pressure in the future due to decreasing student numbers. This change of law ensures that training can continue through cooperation or exclusive rights. D66 considers it important to maintain these small courses, for example the aforementioned beautiful Leiden instrument makers School, but also the gold and silversmiths in Schoonhoven, the Furniture College and the unique courses at the HealthTech Academy. In the coming years many professionals will retire in these particular professions. They are all professions for which we ultimately continue to need people. There is also a lot of work in precisely that small-scale unique craftsmanship. In order to better protect these crafts in the Netherlands, education must also be maintained. Then there's the exclusive right. In the event of extreme threat of disappearance, small, unique vocational training courses may be granted the right to be the only one to offer the training for five years as a result of this change of law. In addition, they can also get extra money. With this certainty of survival, schools can then focus on what they are for, namely good education and craftsmanship, rather than on a survival strategy. It will also be possible to strengthen the relationship with business. That's one way. The other side is that, of course, D66 also attaches importance to self-regulation within education. My question to the Minister is therefore how she is going to ensure that exclusive rights are used only as a last resort. More questions have already been asked. How does that actually work? Who decides when and how much extra money these schools get and on what basis? I'm sure that's the minister. How many courses are estimated to qualify for the exclusive right in 2018? Is there a picture of that? If that image isn't there yet, is the Minister prepared to get it quickly? Of course, we shouldn't waste any time. Then there's the cooperation colleges. In order to avoid any decline in the supply of training, this legislative amendment makes it easier for two or more MBO institutions to offer training together. This will enable small, expensive training to continue. In order to maintain a wide range of training opportunities in the future, private-public cooperation could also be envisaged. What's the Minister's position on that? What are the hooks and eyes here and why is this missing from the bill anyway? Mr. Chairman. Cooperation between several institutions often does not benefit democratic representation. That's what we're seeing at municipal level. Democratic representation, participation and accountability are very important. We therefore want students and staff within the cooperation colleges to have equal rights and equal representation, as is the case in the regular institutions. It remains unclear how the participation of students in the cooperation colleges is guaranteed. According to the amendment of the law, agreement must be reached between the institutions, but the institutions are also free to do so. My question is: do the cooperation colleges have the same rules as within the courses? Is it also compulsory to have its own participation council with its own elections, the right of assent on the main lines of the budget and so on? Or do the students get a say in their own institution? Can the Minister explain this? Mr. Chairman. Within the cooperation college there is a separate education and examination scheme. Students need to know clearly where to go with questions, complaints or otherwise, so that they are not sent from the cabinet to the wall. In the evaluation, can the Minister pay particular attention to participation and support for students, particularly students within the cooperation college? Mr. Chairman. For the institutions forming a cooperation college, it is not the intention, according to the law, that the majority of students should be covered by the cooperation college or by several cooperation colleges. After all, the institution itself must retain its right to exist. We as D66 agree with that. There is a standard in the law and there is an amendment by Mr El Yassini. I'm on the next line. If we are going to introduce Hague standards with fairly arbitrary limits and apply sanctions, then that must be very well justified. I would ask the Minister once again to explain why this is necessary. Can she go into this? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr President, thank you. I am glad that I have arrived in the Chamber after an exciting journey. As far as we are concerned, we can be relatively brief today. The importance of this law for the SP is clear. Certainly in the context of declining apprenticeship numbers, throughout education but certainly in the MBO, the need for this law is clear as far as we are concerned. A wide range of vocational training and vocational training is of great importance, and public intervention to prevent training from disappearing as a whole seems to us to be justified. Isn't there gonna be anything left? Yes, a few questions and a single concern. What about the exclusive right of training when institutions decide to offer such training at once during that period? Do they have to wait until that five-year period is over, or can an institution, after consultation, decide to offer training? How does the assessment of whether training can also be started at another location look like? We have read in a number of contributions that quite a few stakeholders consider this to be a fairly serious breach of the freedom of choice of institutions. I do not think that is a very relevant argument. If you, as a government, free up extra money so that a particular education does not disappear as a whole, then I think it would be wise to ensure that this training is not subject to a similar education after a few years. That would be a waste of money. As far as we are concerned, additional investments justify this additional interference. A greater risk, fortunately recognised by the government, is what I called scaling up through the back door, for example, unsupervised mergers. That will be unacceptable for the SP and will continue to do so. You will not be surprised. I'd like to hear from the cabinet again how it's going to prevent this. The bill clearly provides a basis for this. I'd like to hear exactly how the Minister intends to do this. In education debates, we regularly talk about the regulatory burden, whether unnecessary or not. There are still a few points of concern for the SP. For example, it is now necessary to decide to offer joint examination committees. Can this not be offered, for example, by the Examination Board of one of the educational institutions concerned, for example, the educational institution which I suspect will make the site available? I do not assume that the cooperation colleges will lead to the massive construction of new buildings. In any case, that does not seem to me to be the most useful investment in education money. Is it necessary for such a cooperation college to recreate all sorts of things? Because it is not just about the examination committees, but also about quality and financial supervision, for example. Are there any smarter solutions to this than the fact that two cooperating educational institutions have to recreate all of these together, when they have already devised their own structures individually? Finally. As a possible consequence of the legislative proposal, it was mentioned that it may lead to a decrease in the number of places where training is offered. I understand that "possible," but I did have a question about that. In my view, this law is intended precisely to keep open training courses that could otherwise disappear. How can training be offered less often? The intended effect is to ensure that there is at least one place where the training is offered. I'd like to stick with that for now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. That brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. I'll suspend for five minutes, then the Minister can answer your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u27	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mr President. It is good to note that this bill, which meets a number of practical issues in the MBO, raises a few questions but can generally count on broad support. I shall therefore confine myself as specifically as possible to those questions. I would like to mention a number of themes in this debate. Firstly, it is very important to me that this bill also allows cooperation colleges to be innovative within the MBO. Cooperation between institutions can also really strengthen innovation. Secondly, and this has been mentioned by many of you, it is, of course, also an answer to the question of what we stand for in view of the fall in student numbers in the MBO that we foresee in a number of places in the coming years. For me, this is the background against which we are discussing this bill. I will, of course, address the question you raised about the College of Cooperation and the introduction of the exclusive right. Mr. Chairman. Let us also note here that in recent years vocational education has received a strong boost in quality. This is also reflected in the figures of the JOB monitor, which has shown for years that student satisfaction in the MBO is increasing. Of course, it could be even better, but the Education Inspectorate also concludes that the MBO is in the elevator. More young people leave the MBO with a diploma and the number of young people who also flow to a higher level is rising, although I say with Mrs Westerveld that this is not an end in itself, because we need those MBOs very much. The MBO currently plays a very important role in the labour market. This is also evident from the sharp fall in the number of unemployed MBOs. You can also see that MBOs find their way to the labour market very quickly. This is also the conclusion of the ESC in its recent report. Despite these positive signals, of course, there are also points of attention. One of these issues of attention and concern is the declining number of pupils in some areas for some training courses. For me, it is clear that cooperation between institutions can respond to these issues, but it can also promote innovation. The Cooperation College enables institutions to join forces, shape innovation and better involve regional business in education in the region. I see good examples of this in practice. I was at the technical college in Rotterdam on Monday and you can see it all happening there. The technical college is a response to those falling student numbers. You can see innovation taking shape there and you can also see business with enthusiasm participating in it. And you can also see the numbers of students rising. I would like to say to Mr El Yassini that I will be speaking about the numbers later, but this is a cooperation college with 7,000 students. Thanks to this collaboration it is also possible to get so many students in the technique there. A very nice example of that success, and I recommend that you really take a look there, is the RDM training plant that was put there. That's a real-life training facility. I've been in the wind on Monday, too. In the context of the port, students experience what it is to be operator maintenance. That's what makes that training so attractive. This type of innovation would not have been achieved if there had not been such cooperation, because it would simply have been too great a risk for the two separate institutions. Cooperation thus has really positive effects and can be a response to falling numbers of pupils. We shouldn't underestimate that. In the coming years, the number of pupils in the MBO will fall significantly in a number of places, nationally by almost 10%, but regionally we see even greater decreases. For example, in Friesland we expect a decrease of around 16% and in the Achterhoek, where Mrs Westerveld comes from, by almost 21%. As I see it, she is very aware of this problem. This decline is caused by shrinking, but also by a certain avorization in education. The upward pressure really plays a role here. Of course, we also need higher-educated people, but it is still important to continue to say that an MBO diploma is a wonderful diploma that is in great demand. Honestly, on Monday, I was impressed with the starting salaries of those mbos. I think that many of us would really blink from that. This decline in student numbers, which calls on institutions to step over their own shadows. There must be anticipation of that future. Beautiful examples can be seen in the collaboration between Arcus and Leeuwenborgh, not only with the rocks but also with the vmbo. The institutions are thus preventing inefficiency and ultimately the students benefit from it, because that is how we keep a wide and diverse offer. Of course, cooperation between institutions was already possible; why this college of cooperation? There was insufficient room for some points of cooperation. We have seen in practice that cooperation also leads to concrete bottlenecks. This concerns in particular the registration and exchange of student data, but also the supervision by the inspection of the quality of education in cooperation. The bill provides solutions to these concrete bottlenecks. Students remain registered with, say, their own institution, although I notice that some students don't even experience it that way anymore, but are registered with the cooperation college. In concrete terms, the law regulates the possibility of registration at the level of the cooperation college. That is a very important point for inspection in order to be able to monitor properly. Dealing with the student data from a privacy point of view is also not insignificant and a basic requirement for cooperation. It is agreed on: how are the costs and benefits, how does accession take place, how is the lifting going, what does the day-to-day management look like, what does the OER look like? There were a number of questions concerning participation. Earlier this morning, we in the VAO arranged for participation to follow control. When a board of directors receives powers from a cooperation college, the powers of participation automatically follow. Of course there are limits to cooperation. Never more than the majority of the participants of an institution can attend a training course at the cooperation college. I believe that you have said almost all of this, and it is also my intention: cooperation must not be a disguised merger. That is why we have laid down in the law: never more than the majority of participants; "students" we say in the law. Mr El Yassini has tabled an amendment calling for the limit to be reduced to 30% to 40%. Let me explain to you why I am not in favour of this. It sounds very sympathetic, but it is balancing between preventing it from becoming a disguised merger, hence the provision "no more than the majority"............................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr El Yassini is right: 40% can also be very large numbers. See Rotterdam, where the percentages are still far below, but there are already very large numbers of students involved. But cooperation may also be appropriate in the case of small institutions. Then what are you doing at 42%? We have therefore not mentioned percentages in the law, but we have assumed the majority. Yeah, that's 50%. The call comes when it's 40%. Then you're gonna talk to each other, too. But I would like to ask the Chamber: let's keep room for customization. We don't know how that's going to develop yet. The intention with all of us is clear. If it turns out everyone's gonna hit that 50%, maybe you should check it out. But I would like to ask Mr El Yassini: let's see how it works first, give me room for customization and let's wait for the evaluation after four years. With regard to Mr Bruins' amendment, I am quite right to say that you have tabled an amendment for an evaluation clause, which should have been included in this legislative proposal. That was just an omission on our part. But I say to Mr El Yassini: I believe that our intention is the same, not a disguised merger, but I do need tailor-made work. The law is very clear on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u29	Tailoring is of course important. You already referred to the collaboration in Rotterdam, with 7,000 students. I think that's very good. But I would like to highlight two points. You say, "What if it's 42%?" But that also applies to the definition now contained in the legislative proposal on the majority: what if it is 52%? Then we have exactly the same situation, so it doesn't matter. The second point is that I would like to outline for a moment what the figures mean. That means that if two mbo-schools, Mbo-school A and Mbo-school B, each of them...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u31	... have 100 students of which 50 go to one cooperation college and 50 go to the same...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u33	... in that situation mbo A has 50 students and mbo B also has 50 students...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u34	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u35	... whilethecollaborationcollege has 100 students. That's out of proportion. That's what we've got with the majority of them. What the VVD says is, take it back to 40%. Does the Minister not agree that we should send out a signal that this should not be abused and that 40% is precisely a signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u36	Look, if that's the way you describe it. But it may also be 40 or 45 for one institution and 10 for the other, depending on which institutions are going to work together. Hence my earlier question. Of course, I fully agree with you: you have to draw a line. But let's just see how it develops. Our intention is very clear, but it can really be very different in different places. As far as the hard percentages are concerned, what has changed here is going to be in the Acts. It doesn't have to get too big, it has to stay in proportion. But let's also keep room in the law for some customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u37	What are you doing with the amendment, Mr. El Yassini?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u38	No, I have a follow-up question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u39	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u40	My follow-up question relates to Article 11 (1) of the law, which refers to the discretion of the minister himself. What you are saying is quite clear: if one institution has 50% and the other has 20%, then in its totality it is not 100%. But how does Article 11.1 of the WEB, the Minister's discretion, relate to what we are proposing, namely to send a signal but always to give the Minister the opportunity to think about whether or not something can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u41	I find that space better expressed in the bill. If you're talking about most of it, it's clear. But if we are going to say that we are going to lower the percentage in the law, but I may, if necessary, use a discretionary power, I think it is getting a little messy. Here's what we're gonna do. Most of it's just very clear. Underneath there is room to see what is useful. I can very well imagine that we will look at the evaluation in four years' time to see whether that works and where that leads most of the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u42	And now for the opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u43	That is why I reject the amendment. It is good to say here that there is no mandatory nature of the law. That is what I am saying to Mr Beertema, because he had a question about it. Ultimately, it is up to the institutions to find an appropriate solution to the issues they face. They can form cooperation in a cooperation college, but of course they don't have to. There is also cooperation on many other fronts between institutions, other than in the form of a cooperation college. It's okay. It is really a choice of the institutions themselves to do so. They can report that they're gonna do that. The supervision we exercise concerns the question of whether cooperation does not exceed the majority. Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to small-scale training and exclusive rights, I will deal with a number of questions raised by Members in the field of the cooperation college. Mrs Westerveld asked about travel time. Does such a cooperation college lead to a larger travel time for people? In some cases, it will be. I believe that this was also a question from Mr Kwint. It is good to have very clear that a cooperation college can offer education at different locations. For example, the TCR in Rotterdam is already in different locations. It's possible. Mrs Westerveld also asked about the separate place for someone from the cooperation college in the participation. I just need to see where...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u44	That is the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u45	No, it was a question. It wasn't about the amendment yet. That was about another point. Here too, participation follows control. I have said that before, and I will repeat it here. An institution may regulate participation in the electoral rules in such a way that a student of the cooperation college must always sit on the student council of the entire institution. That is a freedom that the institution has. It's not an obligation, and I want to keep it that way for now. But there is that possibility. I can imagine that there are institutions that say: that is wise to do. In other places this may be different, because there might be a little less... It also depends on the extent to which the leadership of the cooperation college independently has control over a number of matters. Sometimes it is enough to arrange participation within the cooperation college. But if the control of a board is less far-reaching, you could say that it makes sense to provide for that seat. That can be done, but that is a trade-off that can be made within the institution. I can imagine that this is part of the advice that gives participation in the formation of the cooperation college.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u46	I hear the Minister say a few times now: participation follows control. Does that mean that if the cooperation college receives a separate director or a separate board, it follows that there is a separate co-determination council at that cooperation college?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u47	Yeah, you can. It's a bit of a puzzle once in a while how to get that shape. But the law is very clear about this: if you leave control in a vocational education institution decentralised or at a cooperation college, then participation must follow. It just follows from the law. As I have already said, as far as the amendment on evaluation is concerned, I leave it to the Chamber to decide. We should have provided for that ourselves. Mrs Westerveld asked me to look at the quality of the evaluation. Of course. The inspection will see to that, too. We also arrange the registration of the cooperation college in such a way that the inspection can take a good look at the quality. We will also look at accessibility. What's the deal? Cooperation also looks at travel times. Mbo students can now also use the student travel product, so perhaps that offers opportunities. Mr El Yassini had another question on cooperation between funded and unpaid institutions. Mr Van Meenen asked for this too. This cooperation is already in a number of places. Sometimes that also has to do with the question of who has the licence for examination. Sometimes it is a good thing that it is in the funded institution, but that education is bought in from the non-costed institution. Cooperation between the public and private becomes very complicated. But that's not what you're asking. I can even see Mr El Yassini looking dirty at it. That leads to too many issues. But I understand there are questions about this partnership. During the inspection we have a hotline for problems and questions concerning cooperation between funded and non-costed institutions. I will now go to the inspection and see what questions and bottlenecks will come into that hotline and whether they will give rise to a number of issues to be settled and made possible. On the basis of that inventory, I'd like to inform the Chamber further. What kind of image do we see here? What's the question? Is there a need for that? Are there insurmountable problems in this respect that require further regulation? I will send you a letter on this as soon as possible, so that you can see where something else needs to be arranged. However, I am very pleased with your understanding that it is not a desirable development in this context. Mr El Yassini also had a question about the flow to practical education. That's not what the co-operation college's meant for. We do think it is very important that this flow takes place. In the coalition agreement, we also agreed that we would make it possible to take part or your entire MBO training at a VMBO school and, as far as I am concerned, also in practical education. For that, I will come to your Chamber with proposals next year. Nor does the cooperation college see that exactly. As I said, in the direction of Mr Beertema, institutions may opt for less far-reaching forms of cooperation. Of course, as long as they operate within the limits of the law. I would like to say once again to Mrs Kuik that we all agree that cooperation must not be a disguised merger. You can assume from me that we will be very vigilant about that. Mr Bruins said that the majority is a wide margin, but training is also very different. I assure you that we will look very specifically at this in the evaluation. Cooperation must not be a postponement of execution. Institutions need to look closely at what is coming to them, what they are looking for a solution for and whether this is appropriate. Not all issues, not all of them shrinking, are solved by a cooperation college. Sometimes rigorous measures will also be needed. But we have the instruments for this in the framework of the Commission's macro-efficiency. In this context, Mr Bruins had also asked for cooperation with non-cost education, including lifelong learning. Yes, of course: non-cost vocational education and training will certainly play a role in the supply we need in the context of lifelong learning. In this context, too, I can very well imagine cooperation between funded and unpaid, but again: not in this form. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the exclusive right. This is not so much about falling student numbers and shrinking, but rather about training which is very unique, often training for a niche in the labour market, for which we need people very badly. You yourself mentioned examples of this: they are reed cutters, they are instrument makers, they are dredging masters who are very wanted; we do not need much of them, but we do need them, but we also need orthopedic shoemakers, for example. We wouldn't miss them, but we don't need a lot of them every year. To give an idea of the number of small courses with less than 50 students per year: this has increased in recent years to 214. So we're talking about something. The ESC has also pointed out the great value of these specialist professionals for our economy. There is therefore a real urgency to maintain these training courses. The Education Council then also pointed it out. Then I also come to the question of why this should be done. I'll go into how it works in a moment. Of course we prefer self-regulation. First, it is up to the sector itself to see how we work this out. But I am system responsible. And as a minister, I think you should also have the tools to exercise your system responsibility. That's what the exclusive right is for. I would like to make it quite clear that that is the ultimate remedium. You're actually saying that it would be very good if the sector did so well together that we don't need it, but I am responsible for the system and I feel very responsible for maintaining these unique specialist training courses that are very important. The legislative proposal thus makes it possible to grant the exclusive right to one institution. In connection with this, we can also combine this exclusive right with a higher price factor, because maintaining a small education is often more expensive. It is also often very specialised training. Mr Van Meenen asked about these criteria very specifically. There is a rather extensive system, procedure for which the law was introduced in 1996. There are eight different price factors that we know in the law, and based on those factors you can walk past these institutions and wonder if that leads to higher funding. In my opinion, Mrs Kuik asked: can't you be satisfied with the higher funding alone? No, you can't, because that could lead to you getting competition in the way. Then institutions can start thinking: if I have such a small education, then I get a higher funding, and I find that interesting. This increased funding should enable the institution that is given the exclusive right to invest in making that training more sustainable. The exclusive right must mean that an institution no longer needs to be concerned with survival alone, but that it can be involved in making training more sustainable. That is why there is the five-year period. That's what I'm saying to Mrs. Kuik. You really need it to make it more sustainable. If you cut that short, you'll be on your own again. Because after two years, how do you keep the new competitors? Five years means about two cohorts of students. It's not that long. Before we come to the exclusive right, the SBB will play its role and advise the sector, and the sector will comply with these opinions. Before my next move, we also have the opinion of the Commission on macro-efficiency. So we do not come to a very lightly award. There are a number of steps ahead of that. As far as I am concerned, they mean that in as few cases as possible I shall proceed with the granting of exclusive rights. Of course, I say to Mr El Yassini, the Chamber will be informed. It is also simply published on the Commission's macro-efficiency website, I believe. It is precisely because it is not an everyday decision that I think it is right that I should inform the Chamber about the question when we are going to grant it. I cannot yet tell Mr Van Meenen how often we see it coming in 2018. I hope that will not happen; I hope that the sector will be able to do so itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u48	Just for the sake of clarity, the exclusive right is an extreme means of salvation. The SBB and the Commission have already failed to achieve macro-efficiency at the time when this is going to play a role. Are we not in danger of starting such training, which involves a whole cohort of students, and then having to be demolished again? Then we're stuck with those students who have to go somewhere else. Can you guarantee that won't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u49	We are going to a situation where we say that this is actually a small, specialist, unique education that we need, and we need to prevent two institutions from competing with each other on this. This will lead to a choice to be made. Training may also need to be concluded on the basis of the Commission's opinion on macro-efficiency. You always try to do that in a careful process, so you can cut it down nicely. But you can't rule out the fact that some students will have to finish their education at another institution. You can also arrange that this can be done at the same location, for example, because the exclusive right can of course be exercised at different locations. In this way, a practical solution can be found for these transitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u50	Okay. We'll have to be very alert about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u51	I suggest you move on. I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u52	I think I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u53	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u54	I have already addressed Mr Bruins' question about cooperation with the business school. I do not think I have yet gone into Mrs Westerveld's amendment to item No. 10. I should have done that when I was talking about the cooperation college. In fact, you would like to add that participation and the parental council must meet from both cooperating institutions before a decision is taken on cooperation. Now there is a right of advice on both sides. Whatever you want, you can but don't have to. I would like to leave it to the wisdom of the institutions and to local participation to settle this or not. I do not have an urgent need to regulate this right now, precisely because institutions themselves must have the space to see what is the most convenient way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u55	I understand very well what the Minister says, but... If you decide to work together, it affects students and employees directly. We say: make sure that legal arrangements are made for them to come together once to see if they can reach agreement on the proposed proposal. It does not seem surprising to me that you are regulating this legally, precisely because it is not very far-reaching but provides an additional guarantee that such a decision will be supported by the students and the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u56	Again, as far as I am concerned, the basis of the law is sufficient. There is a right of advice in both institutions. At this point, you and I differ on the question of how far you should prescribe everything in the law and to what extent you leave some things to the process in the institutions. I am not in favour of the amendment at the moment. If we are to see in the evaluation that there is great dissatisfaction with the exercise of the advisory right in the establishment of a cooperation college, then I should like to look at it again. But I am a little reluctant to come back to all kinds of new obligations around the cooperation college, precisely because we are only now working with new legislation in terms of participation in vocational education in the first year, and it is good to start by looking at how it all works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u57	Then I ask what the Minister's position is with regard to the following example, with two extremes. Suppose a rock in Maastricht will work with a rock in Leeuwarden. There's quite a distance between them. If that is decided, will the Minister agree with me that you should build in the guarantee that at least the co-determination councils are together to discuss this? For example, you could install a distance criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u58	You'll assume that students will have to travel. Look where the collaboration colleges take shape. This will be particularly true within the region itself. The added value often comes from joint innovation and is a clear point of contact for business. So the case may be a bit theoretical. This cooperation doesn't have to lead students to travel, because you can just offer it at two locations within a collaboration college. I can imagine that, if a plan for cooperation does not receive the agreement of both co-determination councils, one of them would be fine and the other one would not invent an institution on its own: well, let's let the co-determination councils talk about it together. Once again, however, I would like to leave that to the wisdom of the institution. You want to prescribe it by law. That is a difference in taste, but I would advise against your amendment because I would like to leave some room here as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mrs Westerveld also asked whether it would be good in the MBO to call "participants" "students" everywhere. I agree with her. The term "participants" has been incorporated into the law because in the past education was also regulated there and it was about adult participants. I would like to see whether we can do some cleaning up of the legislation, because it is really a matter of students, and that is what they should be called. Mr Kwint had another question about the regulatory burden in examination committees. Institutions do not need to set up separate examination committees. It's about the cooperation college. They can also opt for an examination committee of one of the institutions. You can, but you don't have to. If you choose one of those examination boards, that doesn't lead to administrative pressure. But here too there is room for institutions to choose one or the other, depending on what one wants with cooperation and how big it is. Mrs Kuik had a fair question about the quality of the small, unique training courses. She asked: if you have such an exclusive right, doesn't that mean that there is no incentive for quality anymore, because after all, you are monopolist? For this reason, and because I believe that her concern is justified, we will send out a signal at the inspection: if we give that exclusive right, be careful that this exclusive right does not lead to a reduction in quality. That way there is extra alertness. I believe that I have dealt with all the amendments and also...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u61	The questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u62	Yeah, the questions that were asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you. Then I'll look at the MPs. Is there a need for a second term? That probably doesn't apply to everyone. Mr El Yassini is asking for a suspension, which is why I am suspending for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u64	Let's move on to the second term of office. I understand that Mr El Yassini is the only one who wants to make use of this? No? Excuse me, I'm starting all over again. Then I'm just gonna go down the line. Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for the answers. A lot more has become clear. The Minister has been able to give a very clear answer to almost all of our questions. There is one thing we do not agree on, and that is the position of participation. I think the Minister is a little more positive about the involvement of students and staff than my group. Looking at how things are arranged in the MBO, GroenLinks really thinks that a number of things need to be better protected by law. That is why we have tabled an amendment. With this amendment, we want to ensure that before it is decided that two courses will work together, there will be a meeting in which the various sections, i.e. the staff and the students, can talk about it and see if they agree. That amendment has been sent. We just talked about that. I also have a motion. We believe that participation should be properly regulated. The Minister has said a number of things about it, but the explanatory memorandum to this law leaves a lot to be desired. It says that there are several ways in which you can regulate participation. We believe that you can also help with this by giving a little more clarity about how this is done. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a cooperation college has to do with the participation of different institutions;]] [[Whereas there are different ways of dealing with participation;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with student organisations and the MBO Council, to prepare a handout for the participants' councils and works councils on how to deal with the different options for participation in cooperation colleges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34691-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Minister for answering the questions, responding to the amendment and any motions. I'm also very happy that she wants to look at private-public collaboration. She doesn't want to go to those cooperation colleges, but she does want to look at where cooperation is possible, where we may run into them, what we may or may not like and how we look at them. I am tabling a motion with my colleague from D66, Mr Van Meenen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft law encourages co-operation colleges for the public-public and private-private partnerships;]] [[considers that public-private cooperation also increases the volume of supply and the quality of supply;]] [[calls on the government to explore ways of facilitating public-private cooperation in the MBO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr El Yassini and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34691-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u67	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive explanation. I have one more question. I have doubts about Professor's amendment, I'll say, El Yassini. I'd like to invite the Minister to comment on that. What practical problems can we face when we move on to his proposal to introduce the reporting obligation at 30% and to strengthen that framework to 40%? What can we run into? I myself tend to say, "Let's do it." Because we know our pappenheimers a little bit. The better the framework, the safer it is. That is my question to the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u68	Thank you. Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the CDA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer, too. It's a good thing we're gonna make college cooperation easier. I still have a question about the fact that the cooperation colleges should not be disguised mergers in relation to the amendment. It says "most of it" now. That means "mostly, mostly," but that's not really clearly defined. The Minister says he needs tailor-made work and that the definition offers it. The amendment gives her a clear position towards the schools. I would ask the Minister to consider the possibilities offered by the law for applying customisation, even if we indicate a clear limit of 40%. And I think the Minister has a discretionary power, too. I come to the exclusive right for unique training. I asked if we couldn't evaluate after two years. I don't mean by that we should end it after two years. In two years' time, I would like to see a state of play on the subject of the exclusive right. Is it still necessary? How's it going? I'd like another answer to that. Thank you for the commitment for extra alertness on quality improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you. Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. Hearing the debate, I suggest that I have my amendment amended by the Bureau for Legislation and that I add in the explanatory statement that the evaluation will also look at the justification for the creation of the co-operation colleges. I propose that I also include the words 'quality' and 'accessibility' in the explanatory statement. Then we also tackled Mrs Westerveld's point immediately. I was not entirely clear from the answer as to the difference between "50% and discretionary power" and "40% and discretionary power." I think it is the clearer you make the border, the clearer at which point the Minister makes use of her discretion. So I tend to be in favour of the VVD amendment. I found the Minister's argument very clear that participation follows control in the Netherlands. That's how it works in this country. In my view, this does not require an additional measure. In short, I believe that this law is necessary for the maintenance of unique, specialist vocational training, particularly in shrinking regions. The Christian Union will therefore give its full support to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister. Of course, my group will wholeheartedly support this proposal. It makes things possible that can help the MBO further. This is in the interests of everyone, especially the students who take these wonderful courses. Mr. Chairman. We talked about participation at different levels. I would ask the Minister to include in the evaluation, if Mr Bruins' amendment is adopted, the state of participation in the cooperation committees. Perhaps Mr Bruins is prepared, if he is going to amend his amendment, to include the state of play with regard to participation in the cooperation committees. Then we've taken care of it in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u74	I don't think I can stand that. I'm gonna take a look at the minister, too. I see a reassuring nod. Yeah, I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u75	Very nice. I agree with the questions raised about Mr El Yassini's amendment, in particular about standards. I, too, would like to have more clarity about this. The Minister has given an excellent explanation of the exclusive right, which I hope will be applied as little as possible but where it is really necessary to maintain unique small-scale craftsmanship, because that is the most beautiful thing that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Court for its second-term comments. As far as Mrs Westerveld's amendment is concerned, we differ on that point. Referring to his explanatory statement on the amendment, Mr Bruins is going to take some of my working list. We are going to look at participation, quality, accessibility and, also very importantly, the motivation used to achieve cooperation. In this way we can monitor whether the cooperation college is really being used for charity. So I would ask Mrs Westerveld to consider taking advantage of the space and looking at how it is developing before we go back to incorporating new obligations into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u78	Are you answering a question from Mrs Westerveld or are you responding to the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u79	In view of the commitment made by Mr Bruins to include some of the wishes expressed by the Chamber in the explanatory statement to the evaluation, I consider her to withdraw her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u80	That's up to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u81	This is about two different things. We ask that, in order to set up such a cooperation college, the participation fees should be brought together to discuss this decision. The evaluation is about checking how participation is and whether it is properly regulated. We say, also in that amendment, that it must be properly arranged in advance. An evaluation concerns the question of whether participation is properly regulated in the cooperation college. So it's two different things. I'd like to give that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u82	I heard. I shall now come to Mrs Westerveld's motion on item No. 11 on the handout. I think that's a good suggestion. Participation is in full development. I understand from JOB that they mainly need hand-outs for how they can take their supporters into the more mature participation in the MBO. So I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. It's a good suggestion. Mr El Yassini's motion for a resolution 12 is about public-private cooperation. It invites me to consider how this cooperation can be facilitated. We have a hotline and we're going to see where there are bottlenecks and if we can do something about it. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I see Mr El Yassini nodding, I am happy to take it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u83	I look at the Members to see if there is any objection to adopting Mr El Yassini's and Mr Van Meenen's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u84	I am reading the motion again and I do not really know whether I agree with it. Now I do not have the illusion that I am in favour of majority voting, but at least I think it would be wise to record it by vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u85	Then we'll vote on this. Therefore, the motion has not been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Chairman. A number of comments have been made on Mr El Yassini's amendment on the 30%/40%. Mr Beertema has said that he still has doubts about it. I would advise him: in case of doubt, you should not cross. But I understand he's still considering doing that. Should the reporting obligation be 30% or 40%? I also think that this is something in particular where we should leave it to the institutions to cooperate together where they consider it appropriate. Nor is it a question of asking permission in advance. There must only be a signal function when it goes too far. Are we going to hold the majority at 30%, or are we going to make it 40%? I think that's the key question before you. I would like to say once again that this could also be a college of cooperation between small institutions. Now, when I look at what happens in the country with shrinkage in green and technical education, say the combination of green and grey, there is a huge challenge for innovation. Because a lot of green education will have to focus more on technology. That also has huge challenges, it's about shrinking. My impression is that we will indeed need that 40% there in order to facilitate cooperation well, so that we can really maintain a good range of innovative MBOs throughout the country. If you say that I have a discretionary power, I think that's a bit of the reverse. So that's why I chose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u87	A short question and also a short answer. Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr President, I am absolutely going to do my best to keep it as short as possible, because the Minister speaks of certain small cases, we are talking about the cooperation colleges, but there are also opportunities for cooperation outside these colleges. That's the first thing. Secondly, if they are really so small, then we have now decided that small and unique training can be given an exclusive right. So in that respect, if that's really so important, there are several ways that lead to Rome. We say: send a signal, state clearly that the limit is up to 40%. I think it is important that we should be able to give that signal as a Chamber but also hopefully as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u89	This isn't a question, but okay, it was a signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u90	Let me say this about it. You say multiple roads lead to Rome, that's true. Several roads can lead to a good solution for a sustainable and sustainable MBO, even in the future. But if you say "I'll lower this," you'll shut down roads. I hope you're aware of that. I think it is a bit of the reverse to say: if I have to, I can use a discretionary power. No, we try to regulate it in the law as it should be, and a discretionary power is really the exception to the rule and not the other way around. Mrs Kuik's question again in two years' time. As far as the exclusive right is concerned, she asks me if I can look at it again after two years. If you really want to make such a unique education sustainable and make it sustainable for the future, then two years is really incredibly short. It really is a question of getting sustainable, sustainable, beautiful training, even for the future. I think five years is a good time. We will also have the review of the law in four years' time. Then we can see how it works. But I find it risky to shorten the time that an institution gets to prove itself here. I think that's too risky.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u91	I tried to point out that we are dealing with a state of affairs in the meantime because five years is also a long time. In the meantime, I'd like to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u92	Yes, it will be published which institutions have the exclusive right, but if you are going to ask me now for a separate report on an institution how it stands... I have already promised you that we will ask the inspection to keep a very close eye on the quality of training and how it works. If anything goes wrong there, then the inspection fulfils its role, but to start working again with separate reports... We just have a good structure to monitor the quality. I was gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u94	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u95	You were ready? Then I thank you for that. That also brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-4.u96	We will vote on the amendments, the motions and the legislative proposal next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and Members of Parliament once again and suspend the sitting until 2 p.m.
