ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We begin with Mrs Karabulut's question, on behalf of the SP, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, about the report that 25 people have died and 900 have been injured in mass protests in Gaza. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Meanwhile, the death toll has risen to 60 and 2,700 are injured. That is the final state of affairs following Israel's horrific and disproportionate military action against Gaza yesterday. Those who watched the news yesterday were able to see the footage. While, on the one hand, the United States actually drew a middle finger to the international community and the entire Middle East Peace Process through the festive opening of the embassy in Jerusalem, the Israeli army carried out a murder party just a little further away on Palestinians defending their right to return and defending themselves, resisting the eternal occupation. Mr. Chairman. In six weeks, more than 100 people have died and about 12,000 have been injured. Amnesty International has once again condemned Israeli violence because it is excessive, because snipers are not allowed to shoot peaceful demonstrators. According to the human rights organisation, everything indicates that war crimes have been committed. The Minister said yesterday that a lot of people were killed. I certainly agree with him. But the question is whether the Minister is going to condemn Israel's illegal action in clear terms. Today, the United Nations Security Council is meeting because of this massacre. Will the Netherlands take a firm stand against Israeli action? Mr. Chairman. I also call on the Minister to summon the Israeli Ambassador to The Hague. Is that what he wants to do? This kind of crime cannot go unpunished; it must be accounted for. Finally. Does the Minister share Amnesty International's repeated appeal that yesterday's deadly violence shows that it is high time for an arms embargo against Israel? People are killed by weapons often supplied by the United States but also by other European countries. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut asks about the government's reaction to the indeed terrible images of the Gaza/Israel border. Yesterday I indeed responded to that and said that I was shocked by the large number of deaths and violence, the unsuspecting action. I have called on both sides, on the Israeli side, as the Gaza Authority, but also on the organisers of the protests that go from Gaza to the border, to act responsibly and calmly to put an end to this terrible bloodshed. Because this kind of escalation of violence in a peace process that is already in the middle of the day, this way of escalating from both sides, can lead to nothing. Mrs Karabulut then asked if the Dutch Government would condemn this and summon the ambassador. Yesterday, on the part of the Ministry, there was a high level of official contact with the Israeli Ambassador and we expressed our deep concern in that regard. Indeed, the situation on the Israeli border with the Gaza Strip will also be discussed today in the UN Security Council, which the Netherlands is currently a member of. In an earlier debate with the Chamber on this matter, I indicated that I think it is very important that there should be good, thorough investigation. There is the Israeli view that there is the taking of explosives, of weapons, of threatening violence at the border. There is, on the Palestinian side, the view that it would only be about unarmed demonstrators. There's been a hit on the position of a journalist who's been shot. It is very important that we get the facts on the table. I want to get those facts on the table. It is very important that this research is carried out thoroughly in order to make a proper assessment of whether or not there has really been a breach of boundaries here. Again, the images are horrible. The explanation that follows from the investigation must therefore be really sufficient. But I do need that investigation. We've talked about arms supplies in the Chamber before. In any case, the Netherlands is reluctant to grant licences for arms exports. We are also applying this to the Israeli state, but it is not the case that the Netherlands is acting alone on this kind of measure. That is not obvious for Israel either, because Israel is in an area where it is necessary to be able to defend itself with arms. There are therefore very legitimate reasons to purchase and, unfortunately, to use arms. Mr President, in response to these first questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u5	Then Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. Actually, it makes me a little quiet. The Minister says he finds it staggering, the Minister says he finds it shocking, but at the same time the Minister says: I am not going to take any political steps. Of course, the case needs to be investigated. That will also be done in the UN Security Council. Unfortunately, that research is blocked by the United States, of course. But the Minister doesn't need an investigation, does he? He also saw the footage. He also sees Amnesty International's reports. When a footballer is shot in the back of his knees, when an eight-month-old baby comes to die as a result of tear gas inhalation, when more than 100 people have been killed, when Palestine has been occupied for more than 50 years, an illegal wall is being built and the Gazans, 1.9 million people, actually live in an open-air prison, when I ask the Minister through you, Mr President, is the moment when our Minister passes judgment? And, of course, that may be a condemnation of all violence, but here we are talking about the occupying forces, we are talking about 50 deaths on the Palestinian side. It is a giant who flattens all Palestinians at the moment and every time the international community fails to take sanctions, which has been happening for years, you actually give a licence to kill. We shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mrs Karabulut outlined many aspects of the very complex conflict between Israel and the Palestinian territories and also dealt with settlement policy and the situation in the occupied territories. In doing so, she outlines how complex the situation is. It is precisely in this complexity that it is all the more important to have the facts straight. Because, yes, we have all seen the images that are staggering, but we also note that the different parties give a different explanation of what is happening. Israel indicates that there is not only unarmed demonstrators, but also the taking of weapons and explosives. On the Palestinian side, it is said that unarmed civilians and even journalists are being shot at and killed. If the lectures are so different, it is all the more necessary to come to conclusions on the basis of sound research. Hence the government's line of emphasis to stress that that investigation should take place, which has also been initiated and that conclusions should be drawn on that basis. The conclusion that we can draw now is that it is really very important for both sides to stop kicking their backs, but to call for calmness and to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u8	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u9	Again, the Minister is hiding behind an investigation. But what really interests me is why international law is so grossly... It's international humanitarian law: you can't shoot unarmed civilians, you can't shoot sharp, you can't shoot people in the back, you can't kill children, and you can't occupy a country. Why does the Minister not even want to go so far in condemning visible violence in the case of Israel? And, of course, the matter needs to be examined afterwards, which unfortunately will not happen because the United States is blocking it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u10	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u11	Why? Those children are killed with weapons and ammunition, supplied by Western countries. Why doesn't the Minister say: I hate it so much, I'm going to stand behind this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u12	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u13	...and I'm going to plead for an arms embargo in an international context? He'll do something!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mrs Karabulut, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u15	Violence, and certainly violence on the scale we see it now, is always very worrying and therefore always justifies extensive research and accountability. There are two different lectures here about what's happening there. One reading is: a state may use force as an extreme means. The Dutch State also has this possibility, and unfortunately this is also sometimes applied in the Netherlands. That's the one reading. The other reading is: it is completely excessive, which affects innocent citizens. If these lectures are so far apart, it is not enough to draw conclusions on the basis of the indeed terrible images. Then you really need more support. That is also at the heart of the Dutch government's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u17	The CDA would like to see the Minister on behalf of the Netherlands in the United Nations Security Council today still being discussed about calling for a stop to violence in Israel from any side. Israel, of course, has the right to protect its own country, and right to its 70th birthday party. Hamas also has to stop hitting young people immediately to run to that fence. In addition, Israel must also know that not everyone running to the fence is a Hamas member or a terrorist. No one wants that much dead and wounded. So my question to the Minister is: are you prepared, on behalf of the Netherlands, to call for and seek support in the UN Security Council today for a stop to violence in Israel, immediately, so that the investigation that you yourself are advocating can take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr Van Helvert's request is perfectly in line with the plea I made yesterday, and here today, so that will also be the plea in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u19	We have just heard from Mrs Karabulut, and I have also heard those reports that independent research is being blocked by the US Government. With these horrible images in mind, such as an eight-month-old baby who died, my question to the Minister is: what is he going to do to make that independent investigation happen and at the same time stop the violence? 'Cause we're not gonna wait for a conviction of violence until there's an investigation inside. Finally. Speaking highly to the Israelis is of course a good thing, but if we really want to make a difference, we really need to have a conversation with the Israeli ambassador. I ask the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u20	The investigation must first be carried out by the state that used the violence. That's how we do it in the Netherlands when our police or our army use force. So now it's up to Israel to do that investigation. That investigation is ongoing. As I pointed out to Mrs Karabulut, I really need the results of that investigation for further conclusions, including whether or not I am going to let the ambassador come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u21	The images are indeed extremely sad and intrusive. Killing and wounding everyone hates it. But why is the eight-month-old baby, who has already been mentioned twice, taken to a peaceful demonstration, not to a final violent action, which Hamas hijacked? Should it not start with a strong encouragement on the part of the Palestinian leaders not to choose this path of violence escalation? Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr Van der Staaij has heard that I call on both parties to call for calm and not to call for violent demonstrations and to speak denigratingly about the other party. So, as far as I am concerned, that applies to the Palestinian side and to the Israeli side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u23	I think that we can only see that Israel has really committed a massacre in that Gaza open-air prison. Independent research is crucial, and we're not gonna get it. If the violence is on this scale, and the Minister recognizes this immediately in spite of the conflicting stories, then I think it would be wise for him to hear from the Israeli ambassador himself why that independent investigation is not going to happen and when this ceasefire, or at least the cessation of the shooting, is going to happen. That can only be done at the political level. Only then will Israel want to listen to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr Sjoerdsma already gives a qualification to the research before we have seen it. I think it is only to see the research first and then to indicate a qualification there. I have already indicated that the scale of violence entails a responsibility for the Israeli authorities to carry out very thorough, thorough investigations and, on that basis, to come up with its own conclusions. The Dutch Government will, of course, express its opinion on this. But I can't say right now that the investigation will not be sufficient. That makes, in line with what I just said in the direction of Mrs Ploumen, that I do not think now is the time to summon the Israeli ambassador.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u25	I, too, saw the footage on television yesterday. Very dramatic what has happened: more than 52 victims, hundreds wounded. At the same time, we have also seen Hamas' calls that preceded them, that call upon people to use weapons and knives to fight the fence massively, with risks, indeed, on this kind of number of victims. I have also heard that the Egyptians offered Hamas the day before to open the border at Rafah to give air to the Gazans, but they refused to do so because they wanted to keep the demonstration. Will the Minister, together with his colleagues in Europe, urge Egypt to repeat this offer, so that there is at least the possibility, at this time, when there may still be tensions, of giving people room to go to Egypt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u26	As Mr Voordewind knows, I was in Egypt last week. At that time this did not happen, but the good contacts we have there, I will gladly use to discuss with Egypt the possibility of opening up the border there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u27	It's like the Secretary of State came up with some kind of cleverness. We can't summon the Israeli ambassador until the results of the investigation arrive. At the same time, we know that this investigation will probably not be carried out, and so the Israeli ambassador is not summoned. While we do see 60 deaths and 2,700 injuries. Isn't that enough? If there has been such violence and those deaths and injuries have been caused by the violence on the Israeli side, then surely that will be enough to summon the Israeli ambassador? What should happen before the Minister is prepared to do such a thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u28	I normally know GroenLinks as a party that operates very carefully and legally. In the past, Israel has also carried out investigations into this type of violence. Then you can have a judgment on the investigation that's going on. But if such an investigation is ongoing, then it is careless to say "it will not happen" before you have been able to know it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u29	Experiences from the past in this case offer a guarantee for the future, because this is not the first time that this has happened. 60 people were killed and 2,700 injured. I listened very carefully to the Minister. The Minister states: I need backup. I really wonder how much justification you still need, knowing that in the past these kinds of investigations have been constantly blocked by the United Nations by the help of the United States, the Israeli government itself conducts investigations and Israeli ministers call the people shooting at defenseless people heroes. How much justification do you need to proceed with a conviction and an international investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u30	I have already indicated that, in such a complex conflict in which both sides give contradictory readings of the situation, I note that it is also very important to have the facts on the table in this Chamber. At the same time, I do not deny that we are extremely concerned about the very large number of victims, and that there is pressure on Israel, the country which in this case applies that violence with the justification that it is in the defence of the border, to indicate whether it was really proportionate and really justified. But in a situation where both parties give such different lectures, you do need that research to come to conclusions, precisely in order to be effective and credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u31	But, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u32	Second supplementary question, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u33	But this is definitely too easy, because it's not complex at all. We already know some facts. The fact is that 60 people have died and 2,700 people have been injured on the Palestinian side. If I ask the Minister how many people were killed on the Israeli side and how many people were injured on the Israeli side, then the answer is clear. We should not make matters more complicated than they are. For years, international law has been violated. And what do we see? In recent years, successive Dutch governments have never, but never, been condemned, although the facts are known time and time again. When will the Minister or the Dutch Government stop doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u34	Here it is suggested that the situation would be balanced if the same number of victims had been suffered on both sides. That doesn't help, of course. A relevant question is whether the people affected by Israeli bullets were people who were pulling the Israeli theorem armed to the border, or whether these were people who were demonstrating the Palestinian theorem unarmed. You really need those facts above the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u37	The suggestion is awakened that we...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u38	You may correct something, but you may not ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u39	Yeah, this is really to make it right. That was absolutely not my intention. The point is that the Minister states that there is a complex situation. I have pointed out the facts and they are clear. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is no question of a complex situation. It's so clip-and-ready as I don't know what and as bright as I know what.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u40	We've seen the horrible images. There is an unprecedented scale of violence. The Minister mentioned a "scale of violence." I would speak of an "unfamiliar scale of violence." Apart from the investigation, my question is: does the Minister not think it is high time a diplomatic path was found? Is it not high time to ask the European Union in particular to take diplomatic action, especially now that America is in the position with Israel and this conflict as we saw it yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u41	Any chance that there would be to give the peace process a fresh impetus eventually leading to the two-state solution, which could be the only route to peace, I would seize. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that we have also recently spoken with the Chamber about the Middle East Peace Process, which is being discussed on both sides, on the part of the Israeli Government, but also on the part of the Palestinian Authority, now that there is a combination of factors, motivated positions, leadership positions that are under discussion internally, which unfortunately makes it more difficult at present than ever to restart the peace process. But as soon as there is a chance, we will gladly catch it, if there is a role for the Netherlands. As soon as an opportunity arises, of course we will seize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u42	Second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u43	My question was not just about the Netherlands, but about the European Union. The question I am asking in particular is: can the European Union play a different and greater diplomatic role, given the position that America is now taking vis-à-vis Israel, while America has always tried in the past to play a major role in achieving a diplomatic solution? That opportunity is now, of course, getting smaller from the American side. My question is: is Europe not prepared and obliged to step into that gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u44	Europe has the same balance. Of course, we would also like to see a smooth Middle East peace process at European level. We see that America is no longer acceptable to both parties. But because both sides have been so dug in and the position of the leaders on both sides is at issue internally, we unfortunately do not see any possibility of untiring the peace process at European level either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u45	The Minister is right to say that even in the Chamber what is happening throughout the debate is likely to happen, namely that parties take a stand for one party and, without investigation, can proceed to a conviction or only call for an investigation in the direction of Israel. Regardless of the horrible images, the VVD hates them and also welcomes the fact that the Minister calls on Israel to carry out investigations, and I would like to ask the Minister where he sees responsibility with the other party, with Hamas. It encourages everyone to demonstrate, blocks trucks with relief supplies, sets the only gas pipeline that provides Gaza with energy on fire and thus seems willingly to make its own people suffer as a result of this whole conflict. How can we pay sufficient attention to this aspect of the matter in the diplomatic game?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u46	Both parties in this terrible conflict have a lot of butter on their heads. This is true of the situation around the border, but also of Mrs Becker's point of view: the poor quality of the administration in the Gaza Strip and the dramatic economic situation. Mrs Becker knows that the Netherlands is trying to help people in the Gaza Strip along a number of routes, for example with the movement of goods. In the past, we have tried to help build a port. This kind of action by the Hamas regime in the Gaza Strip, which often requires Israel's cooperation, demands that responsibility be taken from both sides, that there should be no escalation and that consideration should be given to the importance of the people, and not to the increasing number of victims of ideological struggles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u47	What I find pathetic is that small children and even a baby are brought into the frontline of a terrorist attack by a terrorist organization. I'm sorry about that. If, in this case, a terrorist organisation, "Hamas," encourages a large crowd of people to cross the border of a country that they know they can't enter, that's already an indication that it's a terrorist attack. That indication is confirmed when you see what forms of violence have been used by the Palestinians. Israel can and must, of course, defend itself against this. This has also been done proportionally by working with tear gas. But if that doesn't help, you're gonna have to act more powerfully by shooting sharp, otherwise you won't keep them out...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u48	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u49	...your limit. Does the Minister agree with me? If he does not agree with me, I want to know what action Israel should take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u50	I have always said that I see irresponsible behaviour on both sides and I therefore call on both sides not to call for the escalation of violence but to call for peace and to give a new impetus to the peace process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you.
