ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	The following questions are from Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks to the Minister for Justice and Security about insufficiently scheduled training hours according to the police union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Last Friday, we were with the Justice and Security Commission on a working visit to the police. There we could experience for ourselves how difficult it is to react well under pressure of time and in complicated situations. We did exercises there to see how to de-escalate and how to make sure you know what weapon you're using in situations, without applying disproportionate force. Such decisions really require training. A certain number of training hours have been agreed per police officer in order to maintain or sometimes raise the level of professional competence. Last June, the General Christian Police Association concluded that the number of training hours in the police was insufficient. Yesterday we read in the NRC that many units do not have sufficient training hours scheduled and that many agents do not participate in these training sessions. This is worrying, primarily for the safety of the police themselves, but also for society as a whole, because we need to be able to trust that sufficient investment is being made in the police when it manages the monopoly of violence. That's why I'm asking the Minister. Does the Minister consider that sufficient training hours for police brutality have been provided? Does he think the cops are making sufficient use of that? And if not, what are the obstacles? Are the priorities not properly set or is this not a priority? The reporting on the lack of capacity is in line with a trend. Several colleagues have taken the initiative in the organisation of work to point out that there is insufficient capacity in detectives and that only one in nine crime organisations can be arrested for lack of resources. Can I therefore ask the Minister to give a full picture of what is really needed now? That will not be possible now, but hopefully in the short term. And, of course, that does not mean that it will happen, because everything costs money, but then we will know which shortcomings are recognized by the Minister and which one he wants to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Madam President. Since the question I had originally prepared myself for is now beginning to get a somewhat broader framework, it might be good to make two general comments before going into the practical question of training hours. I would like to point out that the Dutch police have an extremely well-educated, trained corps. Every year there are training hours. Recently, the number of hours in the collective agreement has increased from 32 hours to an average of 42 hours per year for all agents. At the end of 2017, the police reported that an average of 39 IBT training hours per agent were followed during that year. This means that we are already well on the right track. The exact qualitative content of that training is how many hours to be spent on this and how many hours to do so should we leave to the professionals in the police department themselves. I don't want to go in there. Mrs Buitenweg knows that in the coalition agreement 267 million additional funds were made available for the strengthening of police forces. The first 100 million have already been released unconditionally by me and they focus not only on resources and people, but also on the training of the police. You can be assured that, when we continue to talk about structural reinforcement up to 267 million, we will of course also look at how we can further strengthen training. I know that on 15 March there will be a general consultation with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on the police. I assume that we will then be able to go into this much more deeply and then come back to your entire Chamber to see how we can offer the police more training opportunities and help them further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	First of all, as regards the average, there are also policemen who are not sufficiently trained. Those are the people who go out on the streets and who have to use the tasers and use other means of violence. It is therefore important that everyone is adequately trained. But I don't hear the Minister about that. Does he think it's an exaggeration that the unions say there's not enough training? Is that his qualification? That's what I like to hear. The Minister also says that he wants to confine himself here to training and not give that broader insight. He also says that there will be further talks about the police on 15 March. But the issues on the agenda are building up. I would certainly like to talk a little more about the capacity problems in the police, also in general, because we see them over and over again. Tomorrow we will talk about undermining and what other means and powers we may have to give. I would like to talk very much about this, but if there is not enough capacity in the police force in the meantime, then we have to deal with it first. Enough hours for training is one aspect, but I would also ask the Minister to inform the Chamber by letter whether he thinks that the police have sufficient capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	I sent a letter to your Chamber last Friday to address the so-called undermining crime. It also talks about extra money. This, of course, also addresses the extra effort of the police. This letter will undoubtedly be discussed in greater detail tomorrow. I find it difficult to take an advance on these debates here and today. I would, however, like to inform Mrs Buitenweg that, first of all, I take the concerns of the trade union to some extent seriously and also understand that we must always encourage police officers and police officers to actually take their training hours. I have no evidence that there is a structural situation in which policemen would not have been trained sufficiently. Finally, I would also like to endorse Mrs Buitenweg's point, namely that for the extra resources we have for the police, and in particular for the fight against organised crime, we need to look carefully at how we are going to use them for extra capacity in the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Then there is an interruption by Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	For years, we've been asking questions because cops aren't on time, can't be around or sick because too many hours are being asked of them. For years we have been asking questions about district agents who have to run all kinds of emergency services and agencies where there are not enough people to record declarations. And now we also read in the CID's cry that only one in nine criminal groups in the Netherlands can be dealt with. For years, the Ministry and the Minister say there are plenty of cops. For years, everyone outside the Ministry says there are far too few. Now the police unions are telling us to add 2,000 more people. I ask the Minister: is he going to do that or not, and when is he going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	The answer to that question is: yes, indeed. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that EUR 267 million would be added in structural terms for the police, partly and to a large extent aimed at creating additional capacity for the police. I am therefore in close consultation with the Chief Constable and the Mayors. As you made a work visit last Friday, I have done many of them throughout the country to talk to the people themselves, to the members of basic teams. What do they now feel as the biggest problems? I do not want to say that this is statistically justified, but at least it gives me a clear picture of what is going on on a number of points. So you may indeed follow me on the point that I am going to bet on extra capacity with the police in the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	I would like to know from the Minister whether he takes the emergency cry of the unions sufficiently seriously. Our concern is also that there is insufficient capacity. I do hear some trivial remarks from the Minister. The articles also say that the vulnerable groups in society are undersnowing and that there is not enough time for the police to deal with the crimes surrounding these groups. I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	I am very pleased that this point is being raised, because precisely in last Friday's undermining letter, I drew attention to the undermining crime. That's organized crime, which just moves in the neighborhood and blackmails and puts pressure on the citizens there. That's where labs are being set up for drugs, illegal gambling or whatever. Precisely the vulnerable groups often live in the neighborhoods where this crime gets much easier access. 50PLUS rightly argues that, if we are going to focus on extra capacity for the police, we certainly need to pay attention to the fact that the neighbourhoods that are most vulnerable are really protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	I call Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u14	I wholeheartedly agree with the cabinet's plans to create additional capacity for the police. The signals are clear and clear. There's not enough time to train enough. There aren't enough people to run detectives properly. Only, this is something that has been said for years. Capacity expansion must take place. We are in a position to be sure that there will soon be a huge outflow of police officers who have reached retirement age. Then my question to the Minister is as follows. It is good that there are plans, but I ask the Minister to share them with the committee so that we can work together. As a Chamber, we feel that we are as responsible for security as the cabinet. Is the Minister prepared to share with us the plan of action to get those thousands of men and women more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u15	That it's thousands more men and women, you haven't heard me say. I'd like to be able to keep the expectations in order. Let's start with that. Another thing is that you have just heard me address, through the President, in response to a question by Mr Van Raak, that I think it is very important that I also show you in the coming months that we are working on the capacity of the police and how we are working on it. We will then be able to see, after some time, whether it will actually be effective. I find it hard to say it's been going on for so many years. I would also like to express my support for the previous cabinet which, at some point, started an investment blow in the framework of the police. Otherwise it may seem as if we are just beginning, but we are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you. Mrs Kuiken of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u17	My concern is in the expression "the coming months." The problem is now becoming urgent. In the South of the Netherlands, where it is clearly stated that we must now succeed in organized crime, additional detectives are needed. Around Amsterdam everything stays. Now there's the report from the Dutch Police Union. Only one in nine groups when it comes to genuinely organised crime does not get caught and I do not even talk about all kinds of things. Where is the urgency, I should like to ask the Minister, because I do not think we have months left. I don't doubt his intentions, but I doubt the speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u18	I think that the urgency is indeed with me and also with the chiefs of police and the authorities in the various cities. I also think that we should not wrong the police and the public prosecutor by suggesting that too many things are left behind. However, I take the report from the survey of 400 detectives, which I think is very important, very seriously as we are still talking about this balanced allocation of capacity over the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mrs. Helder, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd take it easy this week, because last week I found the minister right in his heart of knowledge, he said. I will try, however, because I hear the Minister say that he wants to break a lance for the previous cabinet because it has begun to invest. But, Mr. President, the previous cabinet took a billion off first. Then, gradually, as a patchwork, some investments are being made and structural extra money is being discussed. Added up, it wasn't that half a billion that went off. The Minister says: now 267 million will be added structurally. Then I would like to hear from this Minister that he is going to break the trend a little bit, that there will gradually be pieces of money; I know the 267 million. Can I ask the Minister, on the road where he is going to keep the Chamber informed of what he is going to do and what he is going to do, whether the money comes from the 267 million or whether money has to be found somewhere else, so that we have the whole picture in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u21	Madam President, through you to Mrs Helder, I really do not want to sell you tubers for lemons. This cabinet has structurally cleared 267 million for the police file. In addition, the cabinet has structurally released 10 million per year for undermining, combating organised crime in the neighbourhoods. Finally, a special fund of EUR 100 million has been created to deal with this one-off undermining. With these amounts, it is not that we are going to take away some money somewhere else or fill the other with one hole, I would like to emphasise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. A second question from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u23	I have also read the budget well and the 95 million has to be shared by the police with all kinds of other services. That's where the problem is. That's hardly how we can control it. It is very well said that there will be 95 and 10 million, but the overview is not there and then the Chamber can hardly control it. That's what I wanted to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u24	About the 95 million I would almost say make my day, as the Americans call it, so make Mrs. Helder's day. That 95 million is an additional investment in cybersecurity, including cybercrime. We have actually allocated 267 million to the police; 100 million one time and 10 million per year structuralally dedicated to combating this undermining organised crime. And we have another $95 million for cyber security. There's a part of that for cybercrime and so police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
