ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 34808, Implementation Law 4 anti-money laundering directive. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the many and also deep questions that have been asked in the first term. Many questions have been asked about the PEPs but also about the UBOs and a number of other topics, which I will answer as well and adequately as possible. Mr President, I would first like to make a few general remarks with your permission. Then I'm going to talk about the PEPs as the second block. Third, I'm talking about the UBOs and then I'm going to deal with some other questions about the bill. I will conclude with a number of more general issues that do fall within the context of the legislative proposal, but do not apply directly to them. A number of Members have made it very clear that money laundering and the financing of terrorism constitute a serious threat to society and that it is very important to prevent it. None of the members will be called into question. We agree on the goal. The questions in the debate are much more as to whether the means are proportionate, whether this is the best way forward, and some Members will wonder whether it is indeed a step forward. The discussion focuses very much on the so-called PEPs, which I shall go into in more detail. For the record, it is useful to stress that the legislative proposal has been carefully drafted. In the Netherlands, we have given explicit expression to many of the topics that have been here. But it is also true that this is, of course, the product of consultation with all the other Member States. That's just reality. We are talking about minimum harmonisation here, and so I will answer a first question from some of the Members immediately. This means that we, as a member of the European Union, also have to implement this. I will say more about this later, also in the direction of the VVD Group, which asked in particular what adequate safeguards are. I will start with a question from Mrs Vos before I go into the block about the PEPs. She asked how compliance with the GDPR under the Directive is monitored. That is a question that we can all well imagine. I believe that one or two other Members have asked for this too. The Personal Data Authority shall monitor compliance with the processing of personal data and also the data processed by institutions due to obligations under this legislative proposal. The budget for monitoring the AP has doubled in the introduction of the enhanced privacy rules, precisely to meet this. My colleague Mr Dekker, the Minister for Legal Protection, has promised the Chamber that he will monitor whether this doubling is sufficient or that more will be needed. This is for introduction. I will turn to the large number of questions that have been asked about the PEPs. Mr Van Strien and, in my view, Mr Köhler were wondering why PEPs were associated with terrorism and money laundering. Then, of course, you get the demand for the Dutch context. The fair answer is that there is a lot of international research from the United Nations and also from the so-called FATF Institute, which was originally set up by the G7 and ended up under the OECD after 9/11, which shows that so-called PEPs are particularly vulnerable. That has been the inspiration. Especially abroad, you can see that this is true. For the record, I would like to say to Mr Van Strien and Mr Köhler that it is not the case that the Netherlands would not now have PEPs. The French ambassador to the Netherlands is a PEP. He is covered by the current legislation and is therefore already a PEP. A French, Belgian or German politician who has moved to the Netherlands and opens an account, is also included. The form of PEPs is therefore not new. What is new is that the 28 Member States of the European Union are now saying that domestic politicians will also be included. The group will therefore be expanded. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Prast asked whether I also have figures on the extent of money laundering and corruption by PEPs in the Netherlands. No, there aren't. I assume that this will not be a high number in the Netherlands; I think that is exactly the inspiration behind her question. There is no reason to assume that this particular group is particularly vulnerable to this. At the same time, we can see that there are additional risks in PEPs in general, especially in the whole context of the European Union. Then, of course, you end up in the debate where you put the border, because Mrs Prast was quite right to ask. She said something else about whether a Member of Parliament is more vulnerable than, for example, a local director. Perhaps not, in the Dutch context. There too, it is good to stress that if the bank has reason to assume that there are additional risks with an alderman, it still has an obligation to review them further. This legislation identifies a very specific group as a group in which banks should at least take an additional test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u4	I note that we are creating a Dutch law in which we define Dutch PEPs as a potential risk, not because PEPs in the Netherlands are a potential risk, but because foreign research has shown that PEPs abroad, in a number of countries not to be mentioned, pose a risk. That is why we are going to make a specific law for PEPs in the Netherlands, just because Europe is asking for it. That is, in fact, the Minister's observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u5	No, it is always dangerous to allow yourself to be sucked into Mr Van Strien's observations, because this is too short. What are we talking about here? The goal is obvious to everyone, I think. A number of measures are then taken. The measure with regard to PEPs is one of those measures, and I fully understand that it is sensitive; we all understand that, I think. You may ask yourself whether there is a great deal of reason in the Dutch context right now to believe that this should be done in the Netherlands now. I think Mrs Prast's comment on this is quite right: in the Netherlands you may also ask whether, if you would like to take a test, you would have chosen these groups specifically or possibly made a different selection. That is a very relevant question. But whether Mr Van Strien likes it or not, my guess is that he doesn't necessarily like it, we make some of our legislation with 28 Member States. There are also elements in which the Netherlands, carefully formulated, has not been in the forefront of bringing them under that legislation. But it is the reality. Mr. Chairman. Mr Köhler asked what type of free movement was involved. This is precisely about the distinction between domestic and foreign PEPs, which will lapse. It is therefore a question of the free movement of persons; I suspect that he himself had that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u6	My question about freedom of movement was even more general. When it comes to the free movement of persons, how is that explained? Why is the situation in which domestic and foreign PEPs are treated differently, as is currently the case, contrary to the free movement of persons? I can't see the logic of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u7	I think it's a little different. Of course, it has been considered to what extent it is useful to tighten up the provision here. Under current legislation, the French central banker who opens an account in the Netherlands is a PEP, but the Dutch central banker who opens a bank account in the Netherlands is not. On the basis of the principle of non-discrimination and even if you look at this type of regulation, you could argue, I think rightly, that that is, of course, a curious form. I think it's okay to close the hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u8	Why is that a strange form? The FATF's international guidelines, at least their recommendations, make this distinction between domestic and foreign PEPs aware. That's not so weird either. If the Prime Minister of Ukraine opens a bank account here, there is at least reason to say: let's take a good look at that. But if the Prime Minister of the Netherlands opens a bank account here, there is no reason to say that there should be a more rigorous investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u9	Let me not immediately put the Prime Minister of the Netherlands in trouble in this debate, because that results in quite different complications. I simply wanted to be honest with Mr Köhler, but also Mr Van Strien and Mrs Prast. Fair is fair. If you would look purely at the number of Dutch politicians, I would concentrate on members of the First and Second Chambers and of the Cabinet, who, in any event, in our observation I do not know all criminal records in the field of money laundering or in the area of terrorist financing have obviously got into trouble in recent years, then in my view that is a small group. But then we'll be back to the discussion I was just trying to have. I understand very well that international evidence has been found that this is a vulnerable group for these two categories. My observation is, by the way, that this vulnerability among politicians is more in the area of money laundering than in the area of terrorist financing. I think it is logical that you then make an appointment with the twenty-eight of you, also because I believe that the broader objective is endorsed by everyone here and that this legislation is indeed a step in the right direction. I will say a few words about the new directive, which is already taking advantage of us, which I believe will have a further tightening up and a further improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr. Köhler, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u11	I understand the Minister's reasoning, but I can't follow it. Does he want to make that distinction again between the FATF and the EU? The FATF is consciously saying that if a foreign PEP indeed opens horrible jargon in the Netherlands, for example, an account that is a bit suspicious in advance, but that this does not apply to domestic PEPs. The FATF recommendations explicitly do not apply to domestic PEPs. They make that distinction very clearly. By way of derogation, the European Union says that it must be the same for all of us because otherwise it would be contrary to the free movement of persons, which I do not understand. What is the Minister's argument for adopting this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u12	Then, in order not only to use the word PEP, let me also discuss the word PPP. The question here, of course, is where you set the bar. We have set the bar at what Mr Köhler says, I think, quite rightly, for foreigners, and the inlanders, if I may put it that way. So it is true for the French bank president, and Mr Köhler cites the example of a Ukrainian politician. The experience is evident and research also shows that in the past it was even more evident that there could be potential money laundering in this category of foreigners. I think we're all seeing that guy, too. If you really want to do something about this problem and are willing to raise the bar, you include a broader group, including members of the First and Second Chambers and of the Cabinet, however uncomfortable that may be, precisely because of what I was just trying to underline. Again, we had that conversation in the cabinet and I also had it in the House of Representatives. Of course, it is not the case that the cases of MPs or cabinet members who have gotten into trouble are taking advantage of each other. I can see from Mr Köhler's facial expression that I have convinced him forever. I shall continue with a question from Mrs Prast: how many PEPs is it really about? It is about a relatively clear list of functions: First and Second MPs, ambassadors, the management of the central bank and a number of others. If you add that up, you'll come in the direction of 800 people. Then I would like to take the second question, in my view by Mr Van Strien, and I also think of Mr Ester and Mr Knip: who else is in the family sphere? That's the partner, that's the kids, that's the kids' partner, and that's the parents. They are not grandparents, for example, and they are not brothers and sisters. You can also have the discussion about this, which is still proportional and whether you could not assume that someone who wants evil, just his brother, sister, cousin and cousin. That can't be ruled out. I think we all see you have to balance that somewhere. Mr Van Strien asked if I could guarantee that banks would not go too far in obtaining documents, also in the light of feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mrs. Prast, hold down the button, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By my question about the number, I didn't mean the number of people in the core, but how much you'd come up with if you counted who in the environment would have to be investigated, both in the family sphere and in a different way next to associates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u15	We have not made that exact calculation, but I think that Mrs Prast and I can sort of calculate that. If you assume 800 and then assume that you're gonna be okay, what's it gonna be? One and a half parent who is alive, two to two and a half child times one and a half partner, then we can make a calculation and then we get to a few thousand. Just for the record, the average Dutchman has 2.2 children. Here too, I think it would be wise to take the decimals behind the decimal place. Then Mrs. Prast and I will be able to make that sum with quite a lot of precision and we will reach several thousand. That's a lot of them. I think we all feel that the sensitivity is not even with the members of this house and the politicians themselves, but with those who have not asked for it, let us be honest. He is with the parents and, frankly, much more with the child's partner. Because the partner chooses the child, gives the in-laws a gift.We all know that situation and then the in-laws as PEP get a present. Well, congratulations. That's where the real sensitivity is. I'd like to put that number of the few thousand in context. Thousands of people are now covered by this arrangement, because if an ambassador comes here, it is not just about the ambassador himself, it is also about his wife, his next of kin and so on. So it is not true that thousands are now being added to a very small category. There is already a very significant category. Mr. Chairman. I was referring to Mr Van Strien's question as to whether I could guarantee that we would not go too far in getting documents. You can never give a guarantee in such cases, but there is a very clear guarantee, first of all under the General Data Protection Regulation, which I mentioned just now in the direction of Mrs Vos, which makes it clear that it must be necessary and proportionate. I'm sure the same goes for the client investigation. This means that customer data may not be processed if this is not necessary for compliance with a legal obligation. The AP, the Personal Data Authority, will oversee that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Prast asked me a few questions. I thought it was an intriguing question of whether banks could coordinate to reduce the burden. I think that's a very creative question. It is important that the responsibilities for complying with the Wwft obligations lie with the bank itself. A bank can't just leave that to another bank either, but I found it so intriguing that I also want to put the question to DNB: what can and can't be done? Because you can just imagine that's a way to make sure you lower the costs and the, in good Dutch, "hassle" while the result is the same. So I thought that was a helpful thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u16	I have an additional question about the misuse of personal data. Maybe the Minister will be there, but since he has moved on to the next subject, I will only ask that question for a moment. Is it possible to hold the management of an organisation, within which the abuse takes place, liable? I have given the example of a hospital where it remains with a number of warnings to people who have actually gone wrong. I think it will only really help if you hold the ultimate responsible, the UBO within the bank, liable for the misuse of personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u17	Can I come back to that at a later date with Mr Van Strien? In any case, I have some answers in the PPP category and in the Van Strien category. Let me handle it first. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Prast asked what I consider appropriate in relation to the questions for information. Are there any possibilities to screen PEP's neighbors without the effort of the screened self? That is a very understandable question. My observation is, and this is also evident from the conversations we are having with DNB: there is an additional obligation on banks here in a moment, but also here, of course, one can make a shifting. Here too, of course, one can consider how far one should go in turning all sources upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u18	For my understanding, by "one," does the Minister mean "the banks"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u19	Yeah, the bank. And that makes sense in itself, of course. I have dealt with Mrs Prast's question on co-ordination. She also asked about the consequences of not being able to deliver PEP information to banks. In the extreme case, but then we ended up in a case where DNB supervises and that he considers theoretical, a customer relationship could be terminated. But DNB is there to oversee that. DNB is also very aware of its sensitivity. So you only get into trouble when the PEP information is not provided and it would not be justified. Of course, it may also be the case that this PEP information is not provided, purely because someone is about to be caught, if I may put it that way, and they do not want to provide the information. What I think Mrs Prast wants, and what I sympathize with, is that you want to prevent someone from being reasonably unable to provide certain information. Someone is, of course, always able to hand over his paycheck. Honestly, that's not a big deal. In general, someone is also able to consult a mortgage bill. But suppose there are, for example, assets components from a longer past and that that person can't discuss them, then you don't want to do so, so I understand Mrs Prast's situation is that the bank will say: we're very straightforward, you can't hand over that information, and that's why you won't get an account with us. That would be undesirable. DNB will also monitor this. It is interesting to note that it is not the case that discussions with DNB show that there are, of course, a different group of people who are constantly having problems of this kind in the foreign group, quite the contrary. Mrs Prast and Mr Köhler asked if I would report on the possible refusal, with the emphasis on 'possible', I say. Again, there are no signals. But I would like to promise Mr Köhler and Mrs Prast that. We have already said to DNB that this is a concern that lives in my observation in both Chambers of the States-General, so this must also be monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mr Hoekstra just said that there are no known problems with the foreign PEPs in the Netherlands. I understand that, because that is of course a specific category. Now this directive has already been transposed into legislation in a number of other EU countries, and these countries have a much wider category, namely domestic PEPs and their neighbours, whether they are business relatives or family. Is there any information on how compliance and enforcement are going there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u21	I should double-check that. My preliminary experience is that it is not so easy to get that kind of information right up and out of the computer to see what has happened in those other countries. Let me check it out and come back to it in second place, but it is not that it has caused problems in other countries that they have said: what the hell have we started? I believe that Germany and the Netherlands, together with the Netherlands, have said that we do want to have an evaluation clause here. In the fifth directive, we want an evaluation clause, precisely in the specific area of concern that Mrs Prast has addressed. That is something that we all agree with immediately in this house. So although there is no reason to be concerned, it is a subject where the question of proportionality is open and open on the table, let me put it this way. At least you want to evaluate what it's done. Was it proportional? Was it in line with what we were aiming for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u22	The minister says that DNB will always oversee a final decision of a bank, in the sense of "you have not provided sufficient data, so I refuse you as a customer" from now on. My question is: what are the criteria for this? How can a customer know what to meet in order to maintain a banking relationship? Is it transparent in some way? Is this question also being discussed with other European countries on how this assessment is to be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u23	On Mrs Vos' second question: my strong suspicion is that it is, but I should like to ask DNB whether it has been accepted that it is being looked at on this very specific point. On the first point, I would like to make the following point. We are right to think it is a large group when you look at who it concerns. But if you then translate that into the number of people who open a bank account, most people already have a bank account, of course, and how many of them potentially get into trouble, you're talking about a very small number. Let's be real about that, too. Then you're talking about a very small number. In any case, some that DNB and the banks will be able to count easily, if not on the fingers of one hand. It can't possibly be about many dozens, so it should also be easy to keep track of DNB. This means that DNB has the opportunity to talk to banks. On this point, too, I can make an immediate commitment to Mrs Vos. It is good not only to see what is happening but also how often and in what way the information comes to DNB. Perhaps I could also take a question from Mrs Sent and Mr Knip, namely who decides within the bank. The person who decides is the driver or the driver a layer below the driver. That's an extraordinary senior position within the bank. In practice, if you look at a large Dutch bank, for example, the head will be private. That's someone who reports to the board and he'll get those files... It seems like a very large group, but it's not like dozens of those few thousand people pass by every bank every month. On the contrary. So the number will be limited and they will come through that lady's office or Mr.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u24	The question I have to the Minister is to what extent banks have the comparative advantage of carrying out such assessments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u25	That's a good question. I would almost ask another question, because who else would do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u26	It's very annoying, but I'd like to put this down to the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u27	Let me then answer one of Mrs Sent's other questions that I would like to answer. She also asked about feasibility. On some sub-topics, especially when it comes to proportionality and effectiveness, we have to acknowledge that it is still terra incognita. It seems a sensible step, and in general I am really in favour of this implementation, but we do not know how these sub-parts will work out as is often the case with legislation. I dare to be much more firm about the feasibility, because the banks have years of experience with a very broad casuism. Think of the ambassadors I just mentioned. In this debate, politicians from various countries came to the Netherlands to open an account. The banks also say that they are perfectly capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u28	I would have liked to keep my question, but since the Minister is now talking about several thousand times, I would like to ask this before we fix ourselves on those thousands. That simple calculation with 2.1 child and apparently one marriage per life, I believe. Oh, one and a half marriages a lifetime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u29	On average 2.2 child per Dutch, but that's statistics from a little longer ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u30	We have, of course, also associated the business associate. I quote from a reply from the Minister to the House of Representatives: 'The development of the concepts of politically prominent person, family member of (...) and close associate of (...) is characterized by a high level of detail and technical character'. I mentioned that yesterday. I wonder where those several thousand came out of the top hat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u31	I mentioned two of the three categories. I'm not halfway through the PEP block yet; I don't know if that's disappointing. This is by far the largest block, but we are about to talk about the vve that Mrs Prast has staged. I wanted to lock down the PEP myself and their family members. I'll say something about the associates in a moment. By the way, Mrs Prast asked if people could have a second marriage. I think the good news is that this is up to the people themselves in the Netherlands, but when they are no longer partners, they are no longer partners. They will then no longer fall within the scope of this legislation. That may sound positive to Mrs Prast. I put it extremely carefully, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u32	Let me get this straight. The Minister said that the decision whether people are being looked at in more detail always goes through the driver or the level directly below. That's the senior's explanation. Will you come back to that in the PEP block in order to clarify it or do you think you have answered the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u33	I thought I had answered the question in the direction of Mr Knip and Mrs Sent. Mr Knip said yesterday in the debate that this could be a very large group of people. The reality is that we checked that last night, too, that it is not only limited in height, but that it is also not the case that everyone in a bank should be allowed to do so. They are, of course, specific officials. What, for example, does it have to do with a cross-street, someone who is very senior within an organisation, but who focuses on SME loans, and what kind of expertise does it have when it comes to someone getting through the scrutiny of how to open a private account? That is why I deliberately referred to the example of the private director.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u34	I find the answer satisfactory in itself. I can imagine anything, but you understand what the VVD is about. That is why I said yesterday that it will always have to be at management level. I am concerned about the prudence with which the institutions deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u35	Yes, I understand that very much. I think we all see that the more specific you make that group and the more senior you make that group, the easier you can address an individual to what he or she has done in a specific situation. You can ask a. why the one who judged that so and then didn't get the answer: yes, that was one of the dozens of people in my department. And b. it is therefore of sufficient level to be able to assess whether this, all weighing, is prudent. So, frankly, I am senang with that piece of legislation. Mr Van Strien asked whether the choice for PEPs was not an illegal form of profiling. Mr Van Strien will recognize that the anti-money laundering policy is risk-based. Financial institutions have a gatekeeper function. These are also internationally recognised standards. So, in my view, there is no unauthorized profiling. Then Mr.Knip asked why the specifications for the PEP are regulated in an AMvB and not in the law itself. The honest answer is that it is quite a piece of text and that the degree of detail makes us want to arrange it in an AMvB. I would like to add that, of course, this does not in any way prevent careful implementation. I would almost like to say that I also see the detail of this treatment. Mrs Vos and Mr Ester were quite right to ask what the balance was between the privacy of family members in particular and the collection of information. How are you supposed to weigh that in relation to the usefulness of possibly excluding those with bad intentions? That is really the essence of the question here. Is it proportional, not so much with regard to the PEP itself as with regard to the family members, especially the family members on the cold side? Look, internationally, this is really considered proportional. Why? Because family relationships are very often used in concealing money flows, especially those who also sit on the JenV committee. That is the reality. They are very often used for concealing money flows. So the experience has taught us over the past decades what happens if you only involve this in an individual. I can remember discussions with some of these members in an earlier capacity of myself about stromens and the Bibob. If you don't organize that in a good way and you make the group too small, then you just don't solve the problem. That is the reality, but I fully sympathise with Mrs Vos: that is, of course, precisely where the potential is at stake. I think that Mr Ester's question on a family member has just been answered in the direction of Mr Knip and Mrs Sent. Then Mr Köhler asked for the border. Couldn't you draw that line differently: not so much in the case of parents and children, but in the case of euros? That was his suggestion. It could be in theory. The easy answer is: that is not what the directive requires. It is also fair to say that there is no evidence that that would work better. I didn't go into more detail about family members who are being used to hide money flows for nothing. That is, of course, what you see very often in crime and money laundering, so that is not the case. Mrs Prast asked: is it true that local politicians are not included in PEPs? I think I just said a few words about that. That's right. That is where we are following the directive. But it is up to banks to come to their own judgement about a local politician. I can honestly imagine that question. If you look purely at the Dutch context, it is that fortunately we have very little of this kind of problem in an international context, but if you look critically, you sometimes come across an example on a local level that you might be worried about, and I'll make it a little broader when it comes to the integrity of the board. That is the expertise of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and not mine, but that is of course true. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr.Ester asked about the next associate. Mrs Prast asked for this too; I will be with the Vve in a moment. The associated persons are mainly those who have a common interest in an entity, i.e. in an e.g. or something similar. It is true that, by its nature, this is less clearly defined than in the case of family members. So where you can specifically limit it to the family members, you have where it comes from to do more research on the associated ones. It's about close business relationships. They can look different over time, of course. So you can also imagine that that changes over time. But in that we follow the guidance of the FATF. There are also handles for how you should deal with this. As far as the VVEs are concerned, that is a very good question. It has turned out that it is not a very fragile form, as there are many forms in which we have organized things in the Netherlands when it comes to customer research. So I can't imagine a situation in which all these vve's are being refurbished, and then all those members of all those good vve's would be subjected to it. At the same time, of course, a bank may think that something might be going on. Then, of course, it can be that you think: I have to go into more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u36	Do I hear the Minister say that banks themselves have a choice in this, as well as they have a choice in whether or not to screen local politicians? So that doesn't stem from this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u37	No. Mrs Prast asked me in her first term: if a PEP is a member of a vve, will the other members of the vve be subject to intensified customer investigation? I think that's how she asked. The honest answer to that is that it could, but that is not the case. That's exactly how it should be, I guess. You can't really imagine that all the members of all vves in the Netherlands where a PEP participates are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u38	Yeah, we can or can't imagine all kinds of things. I also find it difficult to imagine my 89-year-old mother having to fill out such a list. But at least we know that's what the law prescribes. I am looking for an answer to the question: do banks have discretion in this or not? Or perhaps the Minister says: I do not know yet, because we have yet to establish all this in a high-tech AMvB. That would make it a little more difficult for us to assess whether this law is proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u39	However, more specifically on the vve and in any case on the legal person. These are cases where a legal person, such as an association, has been set up for the benefit of the politically prominent person, the PPP or the PEP. This is, of course, not usually the case with a vve. I would like to be honest and precise about Mrs. Prast. Can I totally rule out that there's never gonna be a vve you should be after anyway? No, I can't. I want to be deliberately honest about the ambiguity that exists at least on parts of this bill. Mr. Chairman. Ms. Sent asked if the financial service providers were equipped. I think I have answered most of that question. The answer is yes. Of course, there is also an increase in the burden, but it is obvious that it is capable of being implemented. Mrs Prast asked whether the screening would be rule-based instead of principle-based. I would say that it was and is based on principle, because the measures still need to be tailored to the risks of a specific case. So you can't work that out in detail by law. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I'm done with the biggest block, the block over the PEPs. I owe Mr Van Strien one more answer. Maybe I can give that in second term, because there's one more thing I wanted to figure out. But maybe he's got other things to ask me after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u40	There's one aspect I've missed a little bit. Maybe you will; I'd like to wait for that. It's about this. We understand that we are working on European legislation because it appears that there are large-scale whitewashing in European countries outside the Netherlands. That is why we must swallow this legislation. You know how contrecoeur that is for my group, but at least I understand that. There is one thing that has not been discussed, and that is terrorism. I still believe that there is widespread whitewashing in other countries; I understand that. But I cannot imagine that terrorism would happen within Europe by PPPs. That this is an approach to terrorism, I cannot imagine anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u41	I believe that we will be back at the beginning of this debate, when many Members have rightly said that we believe that as much as possible or much should be done in the field of combating money laundering and combating terrorism. It is not for nothing that a number of Members have also referred to the newspaper report on suspicious transactions, particularly in the area of terrorism. So that wasn't about money laundering. I immediately agree with Mr Van Strien that, especially when you look at the Dutch context, it is already complicated to see a lot of evidence for money laundering, at least in the past, let alone for terrorist activities by PEPs. Mr Van Strien asks me whether I agree with him that it is likely, including in the European context, that this is mainly about money laundering for the PEPs and much less about combating terrorism. I agree with him, but, of course, the investigation that is being requested from banks does refer to both of these activities. That, I think, is quite right. I would hope, even knowing Mr Van Strien's fondness for the European Union, that he agrees with me that you want banks to continue doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u42	The Minister said he had finished the PEP or PPP section, but I have two more questions. Maybe I wasn't paying attention, but I had asked if it was true that banks buy the lists of PEPs from international or foreign commercial organizations. Is that also going to apply to the extension of the list? That's one question. I lost the second question, but it will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u43	Then put it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u45	On the first question, I didn't recognize that immediately. Mrs Prast did say that yesterday. I can double-check it again and then come back to it in second term. I may also have to come back to this in writing, because I am not sure we know this from all the banks. In fact, she is asking for a prediction to be made of how banks are going to do it in the future with the enlarged group. I'm not sure if I can answer that with great precision in the next hour. If I can, I'll do it, or I'll be happy to get back to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u46	The Minister is at the end of the PEP block. As that group grows, it also gets a little less exclusive. I find that a bit unfortunate, but that aside. The debate is illuminating on a number of points, but also, in particular, on the issue of partners, parents and children in principle. That's correct. The Minister nods. My question concerns children in particular. It seems very trivial, but what is the point of attack when it comes to children? Is there a certain age in mind? Is it about the age or the time when children open their own bank accounts? How am I supposed to imagine that? Can the Minister say anything intelligent about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u47	Perhaps I should first try to add to the categorization that Mr Ester just gave. It is about parents, it is about partners, it is about children, but it is also about the partners of the children. So I would like to mention that last category, precisely because we have just switched that it may be the cold side of the group that feels the most uncomfortable of all. Children have usually accepted at some point that their parents have certain hobbies. Then Mr Ester asks what the point of contact is. As far as I know, that's growing up, but I'm gonna have to check that specifically. Then I'll come back to that. I'm going to the next block, the UBOs. In particular, Mr Ester has asked extensively for this, and indeed Mr Van Kesteren has asked for it. Perhaps first a few enlightening remarks or an attempt at clarification. What this bill does is impose an obligation to find out about the UBO. So when it comes to a church, I say in the direction of Mr Ester, that the bank must know who the UBO is. That is already the case, so that is not new and as a rule it is in a church rather than in the administration of the church. What's new here? The new thing here is that we make it clear to the banks who in the case of churches is the UBO, so the board. But at the moment, Mr Ester will recognize that the church is also simply a legal form in the Civil Code. The directive makes that clearer. Then there is one final piece of the answer. It is also good to say in the direction of Mr Van Kesteren and Mr Ester that the legislation on the UBO register is still coming. So we get another separate bill. In particular, the House of Representatives was very interested in this, but especially related to the soon to come bill on trust offices. I find it difficult to anticipate that bill on the UBO register too much, but I can say with some caution to Mr Ester that the intention is to exclude church societies from that register precisely because it would potentially also register people's religion. But I would like to put it carefully because that is a legislative proposal that we are really still at the very beginning of. Last week I debated the trust offices with the House of Representatives. That bill will come in a shorter time. At the UBO, I think we still have to be patient until the first half of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u48	It's all very well for that. I was also concerned with the specific term "church." In general language this is mainly identified with the Christian variant of the community of faith and beliefs. I also know that there is a certain view of this in the Civil Code, but I can assume that the debate we are having today explicitly uses a very broad definition, including all non-Western religious communities and the broad spectrum of organised beliefs, other than Christian churches alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u49	Yeah, absolutely. I use the word 'church' because Mr Ester used it yesterday, as I see it. What matters is the word "church society." If I remember correctly, that is also the literal wording of the Civil Code. If the legal form is a church society, it is simply part of the Civil Code. We would also have a very different debate here if the cabinet were to distinguish between these nominations. That can't be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u50	I also had a question about the UBO register. The legislation for this has yet to come, but my question was whether you can confirm that the UBO register will include the final beneficiaries at all times. I know that question was also in the Lower House. Surely it is not possible for someone to designate a trust as the director of a company, and that the name of a senior member of the trust should be entered in the register and not the name of the final interested parties. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u51	For the record, I have a few more answers, including the answer to Mrs Vos's question. I would like to make a few introductory remarks about the UBO, because some of the legislation is still coming. But let me immediately ask Mrs. Fox's question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u52	I would ask all parties to try to have this debate, with the second deadline, completed at 11 a.m. We have a very big program today, so I'm also trying to see if everyone can hold back a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr President, I will do a little bit of speed reading. I've made some progress, I tell you. In the direction of Mrs Vos, I say that an UBO is always a natural person. Again, I will come up with a legislative proposal on the register, but that register will only contain natural persons. In my view, this meets her potential concern that there might be covert entities there, if I may call it that. I have had Mr Ester's question on the Civil Code. Mr Van Kesteren asked about the register about means and purposes. The idea is, of course, that UBO information contributes to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Yes, the registration is proportional. I'll come up with that specific bill. That seems to me to be the time for a real debate on usefulness and necessity. The same applies to the bill on trust offices. That will be in a shorter period. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Mr Van Strien's question on public access. I am also going to talk to him about the register and its usefulness and necessity. I think I'm done with the UBO part. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm at the third and the second last block. The last two blocks are shorter. Mr Van Kesteren and others have quite rightly asked why it has taken so long. That's what I can do for myself. It has to do with a few things. If Members say that these are reasons, but not sufficient reasons, then I would also understand. What has happened is that we are talking about the next directive in Europe. That has been an important cause. That's one. Two: the cabinet change has also had to do with it. I have also said to the House of Representatives that I believe that all ministers, but of course I myself, have a duty to ensure that we deal with legislation that has a deadline from Europe within that period. Moreover, I have to give a profit warning right away, because I believe there are still one or two issues on which we are too late. However, I very much agree with the Members who say: if we agree, you should do it. That is in the direction of Mr Van Kesteren and Mrs Sent. Then Mr Ester asked how the core roles of the Ministries of Finance and Justice and Security were divided. That is a very understandable question. For the record: in the Lower House I had the pleasure of parking some of the questions at my sidekick, the Minister of Justice and Security, because I did the debate there with him. This really is a shared policy area of finance and justice and security, where there is, of course, some sort of subdivision. Where criminal law is concerned, it is of course logical that JenV should have that, but there is no formal division. Mrs Vos also asked about the timely implementation. I think I have said all about this, except perhaps one last comment. Sometimes the implementation deadlines are quite short. I see how much time it takes to do it carefully in the Lower House and the Upper Chamber of the States General. Then you're about an x-number of months away. Of course, there is also a preliminary stage. But I will make a real effort to ensure that we do so as often as possible within the time limits set. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Vos said: our implementation is actually too late; what about in other Member States? There is not a complete overview of this, but you can see that other countries have also wanted to wait, precisely because the next directive is already coming. So I don't have an exact overview of it. There will certainly be countries that have implemented it before; let me be honest about that too. But you also see a kind of waiting for what news is coming to us, also because the new directive has already been extensively negotiated and discussed. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ester asked whether this directive also applies to the Caribbean Netherlands. No, not in principle. However, in my response to DNB's legislative letter this year, I have already promised to consider whether the legislation and regulations for the BES should be further aligned with this directive. Given the problem, it is really a logical idea of Mr Ester. I'm of the same opinion. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Vos asked whether the obligations were clear to small businesses. My answer to that is: yes, the feasibility has already been proven. Honestly, it's about additional burdens, of course. Mr. Chairman. Mr Knip asked when the rules would be reviewed, in particular as regards the DNB and the AFM. He also asked if I could promise the Chamber that I will actively inform about this. Yeah, absolutely. I have already said that, in my view, much of this bill is not under discussion, especially as far as the objective is concerned. Much of what I do not think is at issue. But we all see the complex questions of proportionality. I didn't say for nothing that part of it is really terra incognita. This means, as far as I am concerned, that you must always want to evaluate this type of legislation and, where necessary, adjust it. I want to do it in the Netherlands, but I really think it is wise that it should also be done in a European context. Mr. Chairman. A few final questions in the block in general, which actually goes just beyond the limits of this bill. Mrs Sent mentioned the Netherlands as part of the coalition of the unwilling. I would, of course, like to remove that perspective immediately. The issue of money laundering is high on the agenda in the Netherlands. There is no one in Europe to dispute that either. We have other discussions on tax legislation, but there is no question that we are really doing a lot in the area of money laundering. I would also really like to separate it from the implementation question. We didn't want to train it in any way. Nor is it the case that my predecessor or the previous cabinet has tried to do so, quite the contrary. But as I said, I do agree that it could have been quicker and should have been. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sent also asked what we can expect from the government to tackle the vulnerability of the Netherlands to money laundering. That is a very fair question. Combating money laundering and taking away criminal assets is a national priority. It is also included in the Police Security Agenda 2015-2018. JenV has also invested in strengthening capacity and expertise. But Mrs Sent will also understand that I am going deep there in the field of my colleague from JenV. So I would really like to leave that with him, because I do not know the details of that. Mrs Prast asked how many euros are missing out on money laundering. There are all kinds of investigations into the extent of money laundering. It's often billions and billions. On behalf of the Ministries of Finance and J and V, the WODC is currently investigating the nature and extent of the money laundered in the Netherlands. I think we should wait and see. If it's okay, that research will be completed this year. I can give Mrs Prast a more precise answer. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to speculate. I do have some sense of the bandwidth she's sketching. She was talking about euros, tens of euros, that's how she built it up, but I don't think it's going to be in those regions. If so, the flag may be out, but I fear it will be much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u54	I actually wanted to ask the Minister for less than he thinks. I just wanted to ask what we're missing from money laundering by PEPs and their neighbors. I think he said at all in the beginning that it will probably be very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u55	That is another windfall in the debate, which I have already answered, but the lesser, I understand, even. I very much agree with Mrs Prast on what she says about PEPs. I'll just point out that there's no record of that either. I think we all have a strong suspicion, but it hasn't been investigated. I believe that I have had the last block, that of the related issues outside the legislative proposal. I'm at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna keep it a whole lot shorter than the first round. I thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive answers. I'm not going to complain about a few things he's forgotten, but I do notice that I keep finding the whole law bizarre. Basically, a number of European countries have governments where the politically prominent summit is at least partly criminal. That is clearly what European legislation should be for. The first rule of Euromasochism says that the good must suffer from evil. In an attempt to ease the pain slightly, I have two motions. The first concerns the acceptance of PPPs by banks. The President shall: Mr Van Strien, Mr Van der Sluijs, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Peter van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having taken note of the fact that two banks have already stated that they do not accept politically prominent persons, hereinafter referred to as PPPs, or their associates as account holders;]] [[considers that there should be a level playing field for all banks;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit banks from discrimination against PPPs and their associates, on the understanding that all PPPs and their associates providing the statutory information and acting unproven fraudulently should be accepted by all banks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34808-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. I have a brief informative question. Which two banks are those?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u59	It is a daughter of ABN AMRO and a Turkish bank. The second motion concerns the discussions that will undoubtedly arise between banks and PPPs as clients. The President shall: Mr Van Strien, Mr Van der Sluijs, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Peter van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the Netherlands does not have so many banks;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit banks from terminating the PPP's or its account in the event of a discussion and dispute with a politically prominent person, hereinafter referred to as PPP, or their associates on the information to be provided by the PPP or associated respectively, before the dispute has been fully resolved by the Complaints Institute for Financial Services (Kifid) and to the detriment of the PPP, or before it has been officially established that the PPP has acted fraudulently,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34808-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the extremely clear answers to the questions we have asked in the first term. Let me discuss the three points from that deadline. Firstly, we have asked to what extent financial service providers have been equipped to conduct enhanced customer research. The Minister considers that this is feasible by financial service providers, but could not answer the question whether banks have the comparative advantage here. Is the Minister prepared to come back in writing with possible answers to the question where the best way to justify this intensified investigation? Secondly, we have asked the Minister to take away the impression that the Netherlands is still part of the coalition of the unwilling in the fight against money laundering. We welcome the confirmation that we have a duty to comply with deadlines. The Minister has made it very clear that this was not possible because of special circumstances. Finally, we have expressed concern that the Netherlands is among the top three EU Member States most vulnerable to money laundering. We are pleased that the Minister indicates that the issue is high on the agenda in the Netherlands, that it is a national priority, but that it falls within the portfolio of the Minister of JenV. We'll keep a close eye on him. Although the bill with the Minister's extremely clear answers can count on the support of my group, I would like to receive a response to my request. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to stress once again that my group, the SP Group, welcomes many of the measures contained in the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. We believe that efforts should be made, however flawed that may be, to combat money laundering through banks and other financial institutions as much as possible. But that does not apply to all measures. As far as we are concerned, the measures relating to the politically prominent persons, the PPPs, are totally inadequate, even after the Minister's reply. I note that international agreements by the FATF explicitly leave the possibility of applying different rules to domestic PPPs less stringent than for foreign PPPs. There are good motives for that. I note that the EU agrees with this, with just the argument that it would not be in line with the free movement of persons to treat domestic and foreign PPPs differently. I note that this is a nonsense argument. The Minister has merely expressed this, but he has not defended it further. Adding all this up, the PEP scheme is not proportionate. I have only heard the Minister say: yes, we have actually said almost 'they' and this is what we have come to. I did not hear the Minister say: yes, this is indeed proportional if you look at it more closely. I think that's right, too. The question is, in fact, what action does the Minister intend to take to address these disproportionate measures for the PEPs as far as possible? I would also like to point out that, as far as we are concerned, the PEPs are not primarily about the representatives of the people. We ourselves would like to turn in all these papers. That doesn't bother us. According to the Minister, this is 800 public people. There are 225 parliamentarians and so many more public people with all their family members. The minister comes to about 5,000 people, as he charged us without finishing the end. I still have the question how does this relate to the calculation of additional customer surveys in the draft execution policy Wwft 2018? On page 26 there are between 10,000 and 30,000 clients for which additional investigations are to be carried out by the new law. The implementing decision is the AMvB that is always being discussed, isn't it? In order to address the disproportionate measures for PEPs and their relatives, I asked whether we could not also apply the €15,000 limit for opening and maintaining bank accounts, as with financial transactions. There will be no need for enhanced customer surveys under these circumstances. That would considerably reduce the problem, including for relatives. The Minister has only replied: it could, but it has not been chosen. I want to ask him if he still wants to choose. In the course of the further work which is still open, as in the case of the draft implementing policy, does he still wish to give substance to the fourth directive, so that at least those disproportionate measures can be justified? Finally, I would like to say a few words about the evaluation. I have asked a number of specific questions about this. On a number of points, I have asked whether the Minister would like to report in a number of years on how this is going to work out in practice with these PEPs. He drew one of these questions together with a question from Mrs Prast and said: yes, I do. Can I take it that he is prepared to submit a report to the Chamber in a few years' time on all the points I have asked for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the question that has just slipped my mind in my interruption. I had asked in the first term whether the Minister could promise that he would not allow banks to refuse customers simply because they are associated with a politically prominent and therefore financially unattractive. So I am not talking about an integrity question. The Minister has not responded to this. I interpret that in such a way that he doesn't want or can commit to it at the moment. I thank the Minister for his reply. He has clearly taken note of the questions that live here. The Minister's answers have made it clear to me that there are still a lot of uncertainties, including with the Minister, about what this law will mean in practice. Among other things, the Minister must wait for information from De Nederlandsche Bank and for other information on details regarding who is now part of the business associates. I think we can agree on the purpose of the bill; now I am speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. However, there are many questions left, in particular about those who are close to the PEPs. The Minister has already indicated that he wishes to answer some questions in writing. He would help the legislative process by answering the questions that remain, together with his colleague from Justice and Security, on the basis of information to be collected and sending these answers to the Chamber. On this basis, we could, if necessary, continue or conclude the debate. At the moment, I find it difficult to provide my group with an informed final opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for answering my first-term questions. He has clarified a number of things. The problem with this draft implementing law is and remains that much of the impact on AMvBs needs to be regulated. This applies in particular to the policy on politically prominent persons. However, the response has made it clearer which family members are targeted: spouses, children, partners of children and parents. Here, after all, is the danger I pointed out in the first place, namely that innocent family members are being burdened unnecessarily. Think, for example, of the case that parents abuse their children to launder money. You don't have to think about that, do you? This once again highlights my question of what exactly is meant by children and what the point of reference is. Is that the age? Is that the age at which you can open a bank account? I'd like to hear that in second term from the Minister. It's still a tricky issue. The Minister indicated that he wanted to deal with this very prudently. We will follow that further regulation closely. My group strongly supports a firm anti-money laundering policy. We really need to do everything we can to ensure that our financial system does not interfere with the world above and below, especially when it comes to financing terrorism. After all, there is a lot at stake. We can therefore support this fourth European Anti-Money Laundering Directive. The European Union has added value on these issues, too. In that sense, I disagree with Mr Van Strien. But supporting this directive also creates obligations. The Netherlands must make every effort to shake off the negative image of tax haven. Fortunately, the OECD concluded last week that our country has made progress, but that same week a study was also published, see the website of the IMF................................................................................................................................................... All this makes the cabinet's commitment to the implementation of this Anti-Money Laundering Directive credible only if, at the same time, the cabinet uses decisive policy to say goodbye to the Netherlands as a tax haven and tax port of transit. These tax millstones must be thrown away and the tide must be reversed. The fiscal agenda of Secretary of State Snel, which we discussed recently in this house, is a good thing, but now it comes to implementation. The Christian Union Group will closely monitor the government on this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Knip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mr President, first of all, I would also like to thank the Minister. He has exhausted himself to answer our questions as clearly as possible. There are limits to this, also in view of the effects that have yet to be achieved; we understand this very well. I can confine myself to one point. In my intervention in the first term, I used the word 'practical' to point out that our group wants the managers in the banks who deal with this matter to be very prudent. I have used the word "practical" here with some caution, because in jargon the financial supervision of De Nederlandsche Bank, the supervisor banks, is prudential supervision. That means a lot of supervision. My approach is correct: leave the managers in the banks responsible for this very prudently to take decisions on that intensified investigation, but also, above all, look at how far that goes per person, per PEP and so on. I was just triggered by Mrs Prast's intervention. It was about the vves for a while, but that's not what I'm worried about. She asked at the time, but she didn't ask whether it really was a discretionary power of the executives here. Because yes, it's risk-based and not rule-based, so that includes that it can also be discretionary. If the Minister can confirm for a moment that the power is to go a little less far in these investigations if there is no reason to do so, then very much so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Cut. I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mr President, thank you. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. My group's concerns about this law are about privacy, possible misuse of data for other purposes such as commercial purposes; in short, in the implementation of this law. There we still see many vulnerabilities of which it is not yet clear whether they are being tackled. The Minister states that the budget for the Personal Data Authority has doubled in order to carry out the supervisory task properly. Can the Minister indicate a little more how he sees that the authority can do this properly? Will he monitor this? Will this also be explicitly addressed in an evaluation? I had another question about the GDPR. Article 15 gives the data subject the right of access, but this may not be applicable under this law if the institution considers it necessary. Can the Minister indicate why an institution can do so? What criteria apply? How will an institution's decision, for example a bank, be monitored that a customer is not allowed to access information? I'd like another answer to that. The Minister says that this law is also enforceable for small institutions, although it obviously takes extra time and manpower. Will the feasibility, including for the smaller institutions, be monitored, monitored and involved in an evaluation? The answer to my question is who will end up in the UBO register. The Minister says: in the final register of interested parties. That will always be a natural person. Do I understand him correctly that it is not possible for a senior member of a trust office acting on behalf of the real interested party to end up in the register? I have another question about the EU countries, namely how the directive has been implemented elsewhere, whether we can already see the effects in those other countries and whether there are actual data and figures. A motion for a resolution was recently adopted in the House of Representatives. Can the Minister state whether he is indeed going to ensure that this overview and those figures are made available so that we can learn more from each other? I have asked the Minister if there is always a pending procedure for all AMvBs. I'd like to hear an answer to that. The evaluation. It's obvious. I have already said at various times that a thorough evaluation is really very important to monitor the possible vulnerabilities contained in the law. Will the Minister keep his finger on the wrist at this point, even during the ride? When can we expect this evaluation? Finally, I will advise my group to support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I note that the Minister needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u74	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Members for the remaining questions and the general satisfaction, perhaps not on the legislative proposal but at least on the answer. Some have at least reconciled with it, I think. There were also a number of new questions in the second term and a few questions from the first period that remained. Let me try to answer it as best I can. A few things I might take off in writing, because it's a subject you won't get over talking about. Mr Van Strien asked me about liability. Of course, in the event of a violation, you can always impose a fine. That's obvious. In the event of an economic offence, the prosecution may also prosecute, but that's up to the prosecution. It is not for me to take any further action. I thought Mrs Sent was satisfied with the feasibility, but she wanted to know more about the comparative advantage. She asked me to do that in a letter. Of course, I would like to promise her that, in which I really want to highlight that the feasibility is not a problem, I also say in the direction of Mrs Vos. I have more questions from Mrs Vos, but I also say straight away that I will certainly take the piece of feasibility with small businesses, because that is just a relevant piece of the puzzle. Mr Köhler, if I may put it that way, was a little short-sighted when it comes to my view of proportionality. It is precisely in all transparency that I wanted to outline to the Chamber that there is a part of this law that perhaps we would not have thought up with each other only for the Netherlands, but that I do think that the legislative proposal as a whole is proportional. I also believe that this is a step in the right direction for the European Union and therefore also for the Netherlands. The weighting of proportionality for the SP fraction is, of course, up to the SP fraction. Now I rarely feel inadequate but I still wanted to mark that I think it is proportional.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u76	I did not go into the proportionality of the legislative proposal as a whole, because we do not doubt it. It concerned the proportionality of the measures on domestic PEPs. I heard the Minister say in the first term why they were taken and that you have doubts as to whether they are applicable to the Netherlands, but that is all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u77	Here too, we have to be very precise. On this point, too, I think it is sensible that, in Europe, where we have very different countries with different problems, we should all take this measure together. If we then zoom in on the specific Dutch situation, we assume that this directive had not been there at all and that we would not make such agreements in a European context, would we then mark these groups specifically for the Dutch situation and not other groups? Then you'd probably come up with something else. That's the nuance I tried to bring in. I also think that the idea that you do qualify PEPs as a higher risk category is highly justifiable in the international and European context. That distinction, with that layering, I wanted to make. Mr Köhler also asked about the euro border. He repeated the part of my answer that was not chosen, but I also said something about stromens. On the contrary, I have dealt with this in some detail, not in a direct reply to him, but in the direction of Mrs Sent and others. Wider in crime, but also in money laundering, you can see that people are going to cut. They cut it up in all small portions and then they make sure that they get under the radar. So I understand Mr Köhler's idea that the introduction of a border would be an alternative, but the reality is that if you cut well enough as a money launderer you can get back under that border. This is therefore not seen as an effective means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u78	But that would also apply to those transactions. For financial transactions, not in cash, there is a limit of €15,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u79	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u80	Up there you always have to look sharper as a couch and underneath it doesn't always have to. My question was why this does not apply to a bank account of, for example, a child.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u81	Of course, the cash determination is true: there too you can cut. It is not for nothing that that border has been introduced and lowered. You can see you can cut there, too. Mr Köhler says that that border is arbitrary in some sense, because why is it 10,000 and not 5000, because you are simply cutting further? He is, of course, right in his own right, but the methodology chosen to zoom in on the person instead of opting for a financial limit seems to me to be justified. Mr. Chairman. Mr Köhler also asked about the report. He said: the Minister said a few things about reporting, but not everything, so I assume that all of Mr Köhler's points will automatically be included in the report. I thought that was a really big move. I can reproduce most of what he said in the first term, but not everything. I think it is a good thing that I send another letter to the Chamber in which I make explicit what points I will at least evaluate. I believe that I have exchanged views with the Chamber that we are all curious about how this will work. Not for nothing have I used the term "terra incognita." So I'm not gonna fly that narrow, I'm gonna fly it wide. But I do not want to say in advance that I am going to do everything that Mr Köhler has in mind anyway, because I cannot reproduce that in that detail anymore. I'll admit I'll fly it wide. I have therefore answered the questions put by Mrs Sent and Mr Köhler and come to Mrs Prast. Many thanks to her, too. I have tried in the first term to answer her many and very understandable questions as well as possible. I have a few more questions and a few more general comments. She asked me to agree that banks should in all cases accept the PEPs, even if they are not financially attractive. That is a different basic principle, namely that banks themselves are about their customer acceptance. In full width, that's just true. If Mrs Prast asks me if I think there are sufficient safeguards to ensure that exactly what she does not want does not happen, then my answer is: yes, absolutely. I tried to say that in the first term. That point was very explicitly exchanged with De Nederlandsche Bank. The Netherlands Bank will monitor this very explicitly. And although on the one hand it is quite a large group, with those new PEPs and everything around them, on the other hand the number of cases that will occur per month is probably very limited. This does not become wildly complicated for De Nederlandsche Bank. I really imagine that DNB is going to have an immediate conversation. I agree with Mrs Prast that I will include in my contacts with the President of De Nederlandsche Bank that this is a concern I will have DNB look at in particular. By the way, and perhaps that is the last piece of the answer in the direction of Mrs Prast, let us think the other way: given what has changed in the debate, given the sensitivity of the PEPs to the banks and given the level of nerves at which we invest this, you also have to realize what you are getting yourself into when you say only for commercial reasons of a PEP or a family member of a PEP: I do not really want that. Then you also immediately enter into a discussion with DNB, in a very sensitive discussion. Whether it is very likely that this kind of casuism may occur, I doubt it. DNB is, I think, there the lock on the door. Once again, I would like to say to Mrs Prast that, in my biweekly talks with the President of the Netherlands Bank, she should explicitly highlight this. Mrs Prast further asked whether it was true that banks use lists of commercial organisations. That's right, but it's not and it can't be the only source. It's meant to support client investigation. It is good to mention the General Data Protection Regulation. It applies here. Mrs Prast also asked what the experiences were in other countries. I think it is wise, precisely because this is new in other countries too, that I should now be informed, this part with the Chamber. Mrs. Vos asked about this, too. I suspect that there is a wider interest in Europe, especially in Germany, for example, in knowing its effectiveness. We're gonna have to monitor that. That is what Europe is going to monitor, and we will share it with the Chambers. Mr President, I have answered Mrs Prast's questions. She also asked if we could postpone. I would find that an unfortunate figure, precisely because the majority of the House has rightly urged me that we are already a little late and that we should want to implement here. I would hope that the safeguards in the form of DNB, of evaluation, would be aware, by the way, that the upgrade of the directives, if I may call it that, is imminent, with a specific evaluation clause again, Mrs Prast, perhaps not entirely, but at least sufficiently reassuring. I think I've answered all of her questions now. I promise her that if anything remains from the first deadline, I will ensure that this is answered in writing. With her permission, that will come after the vote. I imagine that this is a subject that we will continue to discuss in the coming years, given the importance and also given the sensitivity. So I'd like to be available for that. Mr President, I am with Mr Ester, who is still early on to consider the scope of the term 'children'. I'd like to be more specific there. As with the definition of "church societies," which Mr Ester and I discussed in my first term, we join the Civil Code. That is what children are about by birth, recognition and adoption. That categorization is important to make. I made the distinction by age myself, that's right. But it is more than that, because this also applies to underage children for whom an account has to be opened, for whom the parent is responsible. In terms of children, therefore, the system is connected. That is widely understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u82	This seems to me to be a key issue in the discussion. This is, of course, a very vulnerable group. I already gave an example of the possibility that malicious parents could launder money through their own children. Of course, we do not want that. Can you promise a little more? You were talking about monitoring the whole thing. Can you promise that this really is an explicit evaluation criterion, given the vulnerable position of children?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u83	I'd love to. Mr Ester is right, because this is exactly what happens all the time. Those who have online banking and children under 18 will recognize it: you will see your children's accounts taped under your own bank account. In the Dutch case this all comes in the same tax return, but of course it is a very easy and obvious way to launder. Of course, children can hardly resist this. Especially when they're really young, they don't even know about the existence of that account. So I'm happy to say this. I agree with Mr Ester as regards the vulnerability of children to be used as a stroman in this way. Mr. Chairman. Mr Knip rightly drew a distinction between the case-law and the case-law. That was meant to be more than linguistic instinct, as I understood it. Prudential supervision is the supervision of De Nederlandsche Bank. DNB thus simply ensures compliance with the guarantees. Mr Knip also knows that the AFM in the Dutch twin peaks model is then for behavioural monitoring. I very much agree that the directors who have to assess the way in which the case is handled should do so prudently. They do that risk-based too. I would not like to bring Mrs Prast's 89 or 98-year-old mother back into the debate, but one might imagine that risk-based assessments could also be used in such cases. That's, I think, exactly like...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u84	It's 89, I think, not 98.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u85	89 or 98. 89. It is quite right that the manager of a bank makes a risk-based assessment and acts accordingly. That's a discretionary power. Mr. Chairman. I come to a few last, very understandable questions from Mrs Vos, whom I would also like to thank for her support. She asked me to include the issue of the Dutch Data Protection Authority in the monitoring. Yeah, absolutely. It is therefore a doubling of the budget, but if necessary it is more than a doubling of the budget. That, I think, also indicates that we are very serious about that. We do not often say that we are going to double the budget, as I say with my hat as a treasurer. But I'd really like to take it with me in the monitoring. The current figures are not yet available, but I would very much like to share them with the Chamber. I also say in the direction of Mrs Vos that, in addition to the European evaluation, I will also evaluate myself. As previously promised, I will make a list of the elements on which I will evaluate. I shall come back to the Chamber on my own. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Vos asked about the right of access. Under the GDPR there is a right of access. That right shall apply in full to information contained in the client investigation. There is only an obligation of confidentiality with regard to notifications to the FEU or the FIU. That's a specific exception. I think that's understandable, too. Mr. Chairman. I have one more point perhaps to clarify. The AMvB was sent to the Chamber on 6 April. Many of the Members have also asked questions about this, because many of the questions were about the subdivision and the sub-categories. They were in there. I think we've done that properly under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mr. Köhler, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u87	This is perhaps the appropriate time for the Minister to answer my questions on that point in the second term. They were on page 26 of the draft implementing decision, which we received on 6 April. If it is too detailed, I will also be happy to reply in a further letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u88	That sounds like a great plan, because you were going to write a letter, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u89	Mr President, that seems to me to be a wonderful plan. I say that to Mr Köhler. I've got quite a bit of this information in my head by now, but what's on page 26... I have a hunch, but don't let me speculate. In my case, that's dangerous. Mr. Chairman. I have therefore also answered the question about the evaluation in the direction of Mrs Vos. I have two final points to make. I have promised to monitor small parties. The other point concerns the UBO. I agree. It's about the ultimate Beneficial Owner. That's a natural person. I suggest that we discuss this in much more detail in the legislative proposal. But that is absolutely what it is intended to do. Mr. Chairman. I believe I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u90	The motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u91	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, something was chewing. I'll get 'em. There are two motions by Mr Van Strien and I have got one now. The first motion is the motion with letter H. I understand what Mr Van Strien is saying, but I must advise against the motion. I have already promised the Chamber that I will talk to the banks if it appears in the future that PEPs would be refused an account for reasons that we should not want. Every time it's important to make that distinction. The refusal of an account can certainly have a very good reason. In my view, the Court is right to be concerned about the potential situation of refusing a PEP on improper grounds. The second motion, the motion with letter I, I must also advise against, because banks are already obliged to respect their duty of care. There is also extensive case law on this and it follows that banks should not immediately cancel an account. The customer must always have the opportunity to clarify his position. In view of that existing obligation, an additional prohibition is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u92	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-3.u93	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote this evening at the end of the sitting on the bill and the motions for resolutions. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment in anticipation of the Minister of Justice and Security.
