ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the policy debate on the state of the rule of law. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today the state of the rule of law, or at least that part of it that remains. 'Cause where do you start? Killers who cut ankle bracelets and are untraceable? At the failing TBs system? T.B.S. refusals who, after a few years, are allowed to take another probationary leave? With 3,000 criminals still serving 120 days in prison? By the mixing of the upper and lower worlds? With the narco state that detects the police? In the fear culture that prevails with the police, where critical agents are pushed into the disease law? With journalists who can't do their jobs in certain neighbourhoods? In prisons leaking like a basket? What about the willingness to report that went down to zero? Mr President, I'm sure you can see that this is going to be an unenthusiastic story. In the run-up to this debate, we have met and listened to quite a few experts in expert meetings. However, there was also someone in between who mentioned climate change and who had invented his own chair. I'm just gonna take it for granted that he got lost unintentionally in the catacombs of this house. From the judicial chain came quite a bit of criticism. That criticism was mostly about money. A high workload puts the quality under pressure and takes a long time for cases to be dealt with. That criticism is shared by my group, but the judiciary is also using this long lead time to impose lower penalties, ignoring the interests of the victims. For them too, a long lead time is burdensome. As an satisfaction, a heavier punishment would be more defendable than a lighter one. It turns out, therefore, that the judicial chain still has a greater eye for those responsible for victims. Take the example of the Veenendaal leaders who kicked two boys out of Arnhem. The life of these boys' families has gone completely upside down, totally to the gallemies. And what does that judge think? "You know what, I'm doing a 180-hour community service." And that is when the directives stipulate that no work penalties should be imposed on this type of serious crime involving serious personal injury!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u3	I was just listening to colleague Dercksen. Does he consider it a principle of law that, as a procedure lasts longer, the penalty should increase? When I listen to him like that, that's actually what he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u4	Well, let me establish that the punishments are getting lower. As far as I am concerned, it is ignored that the victims suffer from a longer lead time of a trial. So that's not taken into account if you're going to pass lower penalties, and I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u5	So the answer is actually yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u6	That's what I'm talking about; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u7	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u8	Yeah, that's why you're in a different party than I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u9	It was also just an enlightening question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Just as continuing with this 180-hour community service in the event of serious physical injury: how can it be convicted in violation of the directives, but also in violation of Article 22b of the Code of Criminal Law, other than what has been written down there? How can community service be imposed in the event of serious personal injury? It shouldn't be. I would like to know from the Minister what he is going to do about this, whether he has a view on this. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. The centralisation of the courts was also discussed at the expert meetings, while police stations have already disappeared from municipalities. With that, the government sends out the signal: figure it out for itself. There are initiatives to bring the judge back into the neighbourhoods and in the municipalities. That's a good signal. But very much did not come up during those expert meetings, for example, that we have been fooled for decades with so-called falling crime rates. Every year it got safer again. Should you believe those reports, there would be virtually no crime anymore, but the lid went off the cesspool and even the police had to admit that the willingness to report had fallen to zero. Let me give you some figures from the police and the D.A.'s office itself. Of the 4.5 million crimes, 960,000 were finally registered. They'll end up at the CBS. This leads to prosecution in only 170,000 cases. That's 4.5%. Then you shouldn't be surprised that the willingness to report goes backwards. That is not surprising if 57% of the declarations are dismissed anyway. That's 70% of the online returns. The resolution rate is also falling rapidly, to just over 20%. The police say we're going to be a narco state, whatever its definition, and thousands of detectives need to be included. Makes sense, because if you want to press charges, in many cases that's gonna get out of your head: "Would you do that? Then the unsub knows you. Is that wise?" I know the examples from practice. And if you're a victim of a crime that's not a priority, then you're fucked. If you call for dealing minors, the police won't come. A stolen car in Kanaleneiland is still being picked up, but there is no postage of who stole that car, while daily puff squats are being organised in Germany from Kanaleneiland. How is that possible? What do we want with the rule of law if this is the practice? In the outskirts, the police have completely withdrawn. There a lonely boa, armed with a coupon book, has to take up on criminals who do shooting exercises, on drug criminals who dump their garbage and on armed poachers. Does the Minister agree with me that there is hardly any rule of law in the outside world? And if the police are coming, they have to come from so far that it really doesn't make any sense anymore. If you don't believe me, I have the contact details of the boas involved available. Mr. Chairman. One example that has reached the media in recent years is illustrative of everything that is wrong with the rule of law, a low point in the functioning of police and justice. A lady from Hoorn who was raped and severely abused by a status holder, an asylum seeker, literally looked death in the eye. When she ended up at the police station with the sperm still in her hair, she wanted to report it, but she had to think about it for another week or two. How does it exist, Mr. Chairman? I would also like to hear from the Minister how such a thing exists. Why the unwillingness to take on a case? Why is it not recognised that it is important for the search to proceed directly to action? Can the Minister explain to me again how that two-week directive is supposed to work before you can report it? Why does it go wrong? And what's the Minister gonna do about it so it doesn't go wrong anymore? The lady in that case in Hoorn had to track down the killer herself. The unsub stole her phone, and she was able to track him down. Eventually, I would say: despite the rule of law, rather than under the rule of law, he was arrested and sentenced for no less than eighteen months, six of which were conditional. Again, the unsub looked death in the eye. Rape someone with brutality, and he gets a mockery sentence from a 12-month D66 judge. Why shouldn't there be minimum sentences when judges fail so blatantly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u11	I object to this. Our justice is neutral, independent. It does not matter, not even in this Chamber, to break that principle in a debate on the rule of law. I would ask the honourable Member not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u12	In the rest of the debate, I will return to the functioning of the rule of law and whether it works exactly the same for everyone. Perhaps you could suspend your judgment until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u13	No, not on this subject. This does not give a pass, I say to colleague Dercksen. I used the asking form and now it's in the asking form. It doesn't give a pass for a judge to rub a political color in a debate. The judge is independent. You do that deliberately, of course, I know that. But it doesn't pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u14	Yes, you do. I think it's just passing. I've seen in surveys some judges vote. Then I'm not very far from the truth with "D66 judge." In addition, I've heard a judge on television say that PVV's are not welcome at all to be judge at all. This comes back later in my play, so I referred to it as being "bad." That's what judges say openly on television! That is not a pass, I would like to say to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u15	I agree with what Mr Backer said. I would like to ask the speaker if he is aware of the fact that we have an independent judge and have a separation between legislator, administration and judiciary. This means that the legislator, the administration and also the parliament do not have to interfere with the courts. So you're not gonna sit on the judge's seat. How do you look at that? Do you think you can play judge here? Then you have understood nothing about the democratic rule of law, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u16	Suddenly I'm thinking about Venezuela, now suddenly, with an SP'er at the microphone. But that aside. Of course it is. Only, we are legislators here. That means that the judges are supposed to implement our laws. I remember one of the judges in the same program in which one of the judges said that PVVs could not become judges, said the following. "We have agreed that for certain offences there should be no more community service, but that there should also be a prison sentence. What are they doing? People say: oh, they've already spent the night in the police cell, so we're still doing community service." I think this is an incorrect interpretation of what we have said here, the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u17	I note that Mr Dercksen is going to sit on the judge's seat again. We can make rules, we can make laws. There are, and if you think the law is wrong, you have to change it. But you shouldn't sit on the judge's seat. If that's what you're talking about, you're really violating the basis of our rule of law. If you continue to do so, you will be guilty of undermining the democratic rule of law. That's what you do, regardless of who...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u18	It is good that you say: if you are talking about that. That's not what I'm talking about. Let me give you an example in which judges themselves give an interpretation of a law that we did not mean as such. I'm sorry about that. In addition, we are in favour of minimum penalties. I hope that we may be in favour of minimum penalties for serious crimes. I object that if serious crimes are committed, judges impose community penalties. I just asked the Minister to take a look at that. That's how we're in the game, and I'd like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u19	I find it really unacceptable for a Member of Parliament to think that he can sit on the judge's seat and continue to do so. You must not touch that, otherwise there will be no democratic rule of law. The judge knows exactly what's in the law. The judge's considering it. Each individual case is carefully considered. The judges work on that and when they reach a verdict, it is not up to you to go to court, to appeal or anything else. Don't touch that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u20	What's up to me is up to you. Let me give you some examples in which judges deviate from what we have meant here in the law. That's what I'm establishing. If you do not allow it, that is a pity, but that is what I am going to do, perhaps further on in my speech. I'm sorry about that. I object to judges imposing community service.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr Dercksen's comment on the judge, even in a debate on the state of the rule of law, shows exactly how he and his group feel about the judge. From my group I say: that is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u22	No, the state of the rule of law is certainly not good. I am only on pages 3 or 4, so I hope to be able to illustrate that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u23	I would like to distance myself from what Mr Dercksen has said, including the party political colour of judges. My question is: how does he appreciate the separation of powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u24	How does he appreciate it? There is, and it's good. I do think that we should check whether the laws we sign and issue here are being implemented. But may I ask you a counter-question? What do you think of a judge who says publicly on TV that PVV's shouldn't be a judge? How does that relate to the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u25	I would ask you and Mr Dercksen to conduct the debate through the President and not directly to each other. The use is: through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u26	Yes, Mr President, I agree with you, and I'm sure as hell going to try. Mr Dercksen says that judges must implement laws. That shows exactly where I think it's going wrong. We have a power of justice and it is independent of the executive. The judge's supposed to weigh. It's independent of statements on TV. But what Mr Dercksen is saying now turns the judge into an executive power. I'm gonna distance myself from that. I think that violates the trias politician, who he also claims to uphold. I hope he'll want to reflect on that at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u27	I hope you will take the rest of my speech to your attention. Maybe you'll come to a slightly different judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u28	I agree with what Mrs Bikker said. My group too distances itself from the D66 judges that Mr Dercksen is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u29	That's good, I do!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u30	But what I would like to hear from the PVV Group in the debate we have been having for some time now on the same subject is whether it supports the principle of independence of the judiciary. That is one of the pillars of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u31	I do not have in my text that we do not support that, as far as I see it. You can count on it. That does not alter the fact that we are allowed to judge and believe that penalties for certain offences should be different from those for which they are currently committed. That's what we're a political party for. I hope that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u32	My group is concerned with the political preferences of judges who do not matter when it comes to justice. That is what my group means by the concept of independence, as a very important pillar of the rule of law. That is what my group is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u33	And I would say: if only the political judgment of the judges didn't matter. Mr. Chairman. We're going back to the case in Hoorn. After the asylum-Somaliar had been arrested, despite the rule of law, Secretary of State Dijkhoff took the opportunity to make a big deal of profiling in a case in which everything went wrong with the government, from declaration to sentence, all the conceivable. He thought, "I'm just gonna grab my press moment." He'd get this asylum seeker evicted. But I think this unsub is still in the country and he's still eating on our wallet. If I ask what is going on with this criminal, when he is expelled from the country, the Minister will be hiding behind individual cases that he cannot say anything about, so let me broaden my question: what is the Minister going to do about picking up and expelling criminal asylum seekers, illegal immigrants? Does the Minister do everything in his power, from locking up in detention centres under the most austere regime to sanctions against countries that refuse to cooperate? Or is he too busy picking up terrorists, now two in Turkey, those who joined ISIS and fought against our people, our F-16 pilots? For that, the cabinet is arranging a passport. If things are a bit disappointing, we cannot even prosecute these terrorists in the Netherlands, because Turkey has already done or is still doing so. Why isn't the Dutchmanship being taken away from them? Why give passports to those who have a dual nationality? They also have a Moroccan nationality. Have Morocco give them a Moroccan passport. Why does the cabinet not have anything to do with security in the Netherlands? Closer to home, near the azc near us, shoplifting is carried out daily. The police come, take the men, drive to the end of the street, let them go again, and they can hike back to the azc and try again a day later. Are those the guidelines, I ask the Minister. What impression do you think that makes in terms of the rule of law? Mr. Chairman. We're spreading billions on undemocratic, regentesque Brussels. We spend billions of dollars on non-working development aid, on Oxfam-Novib's sex parties, on Unilever friends, 1.6 billion dollars, but there's no money for the Dutch Forensic Institute to track down crime, to track down perpetrators. Then you shouldn't be surprised if society doesn't take you too seriously anymore. What the police do have money for is organizing eiftars; a ton in Amsterdam alone. Fucking crazy! In Apeldoorn, the police recruit youngsters for an eiftar. How crazy do you want it? Can the Minister explain to me why he doesn't have money for the NFI but he does have money for eiftars? Will the Minister promise me to put an end to this immediately? We have separated the church and the State in this country and certainly also the horse of Troy and the State, because there is a Moroccan network with the Amsterdam police? Is there also an Antillian or a Dutch network? That Moroccan network leaked information to terror mosque Arrayan, disrupting a terrorist investigation. What did the Minister do about it? Have measures been taken or are our safety sacrificed on the altar of diversity? How else can it be explained that, according to the government, an Israeli restaurant in Amsterdam was a so-called confused man? How the hell is that possible? Everyone saw there was an anti-Semite going on, a Syrian, a terrorist. Then how blind can you be to insist that it was vandalism? Here in The Hague from the same sheet a suit. An Allahoe akbar screaming throat cutter, even from Syria, would be a confused man and the mayor knew nothing of a terror report; she who is responsible for security in the city. Mr. Chairman. I have a strong impression that our directors are confused and quite serious. The politically correct road viewers face the consequences of their own policy of mass immigration and bow to Islam, but write a critical piece about an azc on Facebook and the police are at your door. In Amsterdam illegals creaking from building to building and the government led by VVD mayor Van Aartsen is fine with it. One rule of law is not the other. The cabinet declares the smoker war, catering entrepreneurs are the cigar, but coffeeshops and shishalounges where crime thrives, are kept out of the wind. Drive 1 kilometer too fast and there's no escape. One rule of law is not the other. If gays are attacked with concrete shears calling homophobic statements, then the Public Prosecutor's Office states that it was not established that it was a homophobic attack. A building in Amsterdam with a Charlie Hebdoposter was set on fire by a Syrian traveller and only by fire detectors no one died. But according to the D.A., there was no terrorist motive, just arson. So the unsub's already out there. By the way, the whole thing was covered up by both the municipality and the public prosecutor until a wake-up reporter found out about it. Why didn't the D.A. investigate the illegal demonstration of Turks in Rotterdam, but why did the Friesians who didn't want their children's party ruined by the extreme left? Turkish wedding tones are left untouched, but if a few heroic Frisians do not want a children's party to be spoiled by extreme left at the invitation of the Labour Mayor's Party, then suddenly there is no expense spared, then suddenly there is sufficient capacity. One rule of law is not the other. Mr. Chairman. I told you, politics is in the courts. I gave you the example. Judges say unspoken on TV without any embarrassment that PVVs shouldn't be able to become judges. Mayor Marcouch, now mayor of Arnhem, wants Muslim neighborhoods but no PVVs in the police force. But make a few islamcritical cartoons, like Gregory Nekschot, and a SWAT team will come and take you off your bed at night. One rule of law is not the other. Mr. Chairman. In my hometown Rotterdam a demonstration was held in 2014 for the terrorists of Hamas. One of the speakers said that he was pro-Hamas until the Zionists were expelled; this fits in with the Hamas Charter. "The Zionist dogs," he literally said, because those were the modern Hitlers. In my city where my parents had to hide from the bombings of Nazi Germany, the National Socialists. Perhaps Mrs Duthler can pass that on to Mr Schaap with his crazy books. Unhidden anti-Semitism, chairman, loudly welcomed at the Schouwburgplein through a hundred headscarves. How far did it get in my city? And when questions were asked about this anti-Semitism in the Rotterdam Council, the public prosecutor answered through the mayor, the mayor of the salafist, we know in the meantime. The D.A. ruled that where the speaker was talking about Zionist dogs "(...) in this connection, it was a group of people who were determined and formed by a political connection known as Israelis. This means that the statements do not fall under any of the rules of discrimination since they do not concern a group of people because of their race or religion." The speaker did not speak the word 'Israel'. The D.A. takes the liberty of twisting the statements and lying about them. It acts as if the speaker with Zionists also means the 20% Arabs in Israel. Was the state attorney perhaps afraid that there would be a fuss within a certain community, like here with hatesheik Fawaz Jneid? He didn't get an anklet because that might cause a fuss. So that's how deep the D.A. bows to Islam, but if someone walks unflatteringly over Arabs, he'll be prosecuted. Not to mention the other political process. So one rule of law is not the other. Former police commissioner Joop van Riessen says on TV impudently that Mr Wilders must be destroyed. How pure you want a call for violence, but the man is not called upon. In fact, the man is still festively invited to the NPO to promote his books. How can we, I ask the Minister, trust the rule of law if five years after the murder of Pim Fortuyn, someone calls for the murder of a politician? How can we trust the rule of law if the D.A. doesn't do anything? Can the Minister explain to me why these statements did not lead to persecution? How can we trust that rule of law if Lady Justitia has apparently exchanged her blindfold for a headscarf? I would like to hear from the Minister how he will ensure that everyone can have confidence in the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a quote from columnist Roderick Veleo: "The weakest do not live at the bottom of society, but at the top. They have managerial positions, usually an excellent salary and a lot of influence. The latter makes their weakness a risk to others. (...) The weakest are recognizable by a wealthy appearance and the tendency to fear and submissiveness. The social top layer is densely populated with these types." I couldn't put it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the purpose of the D66 Group's contribution, I have two themes. These are also the topics submitted to the experts on 6 February and which were discussed with them. In doing so, I also do justice to their willingness to come here and to the quality of their contributions. I'll finish with some less well-ordered topics. Mr. Chairman. The principles set out in the coalition agreement Trust in the future show that we are moving in a direction which the D66 Group also has confidence in, of course with the distance that a political group in this Chamber has in relation to a coalition agreement. But there's clearly been another turn. The name of the department has changed, which is more than symbolic, I hope to make that clear later. Of course, it could have been just called Justice, and Security could have gone to BZK. Anyway, it's the way it is. Of course, the public expert's discussion we have had is more self-evident for representatives of the Order and of the Council of Justice than for the President of the Supreme Court, but he was there, which was very much appreciated. He referred in his contribution to the Rule of Law Index. This index is interesting in terms of scores as well as in terms of understanding the issue that is at the heart of today's debate: the rule of law. Contrary to the broad prosperity monitor that we recently saw on Accountability Day, the international educational comparisons of PISA and the EU scores coming back in the European Semester, this index leads to a fairly anonymous existence. At all events, the legal equation of performance is not very common. Still, it's not insignificant. When I hear Mr Dercksen, we are on the wrong track with our rule of law, but if you compare it with other countries, at least the objective analysis, but also the subjective one I am going to talk about, turns out to be a little different. It is always useful to look at developments in the world around us. And that EU scoreboard is also very useful, not only for ourselves, but also for countries such as Hungary and Poland to see how our fellow Member States are doing. I have studied this index once in preparation for this debate. You can see that the elements of the rule of law are, of course, recognizable: the definition and respect of fundamental rights, the separation of powers, which has just been mentioned, the independence of justice, the principle of legality, and, of course, the government as the executive, subject to the law. That's all coming along, sometimes a little Anglo-Saxon, but it's all in there. Then there is an aggregated outcome and there are different scores. So where do we stand? It seems to me that, comfortingly, you might say, it is also useful for the pitch of this debate, that only Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland are ahead of us. We are in a respectable fifth place, 10 places above Belgium, 45 places above Hungary. For example, in the further analysis of the leading group, it is striking that on one subject, which is quite curious, I find "regulatory enforcement', the law is enforced. I should also like to look in the direction of Mr Dercksen. We're on one. In the section "How is safety guaranteed" we are at 20. That's why it's an aggregated outcome. It's the last thing that intrigued me. So the Netherlands scores well, and to quote a statement by my colleague Rinnooy Kan on the education equations: we are doing well, but why aren't we doing better? Mr President, why aren't we doing better? That is a question I would also like to put to you. The Monitor Brede Welvaart again showed that the citizen has a high confidence in the institutions. We also know the measurements of the citizens' perspectives of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. But how is it possible that security scores like that? I do not immediately draw the conclusions drawn by Mr Dercksen, but there is something about the inconvenience of the citizen between what statistics are and how something is experienced. The easy explanation we have just heard is: the government is failing in a broad sense. And, on the other hand, the statistics are not reliable either. I think it's a little more complex. In the Lower House, this premise is also widened, not entirely surprising by Mr Dercksen's colleagues, that in criminal matters in particular there is no longer a willingness to report to the citizen. He just mentioned a number of 4.5 million that I can't bring home at all. But I do think that we should discuss this subject and I would like to invite the rulers to reflect on it and to indicate how to reflect on it. I can also imagine, without getting the story that I have just heard, that in all the fuss about the national police the affair around the chairman of the works council is all the Ministry's attention. This, of course, has an extremely bad appearance in the press. Not only that, of course there is still the whole point of access to justice. I think some of my colleagues will be talking about this today, and I am looking in the direction of Mr Ruers. On access to tax, civil and administrative matters for the low income groups and those who live just above the legal aid threshold. There are, of course, in all these reports, from the Van der Meer and HIL committee, the Hague Institute for Innovation of Law, also matters that we know from a closer perspective, such as the administrative examination without hearing and hearing. It could all have an impact on the perceptions. And then there is another category that I think is a bit different in this whole. That is the question of those with reduced capacity. Those with a accumulation of problems, low literacy, language barriers, things that may not be directly traceable to insecurity, but where there is a real fear of poverty. If you don't have a lot of rack, the scarcity is close. Then the margin of manoeuvre for setbacks is very small. And there is, of course, a source of uncertainty. This could be found in the statistics. Not an easy and unicausal explanation, I suspect, but it is of the utmost importance that we discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr Backer often talks about perceptions. Studies about perceptions are generally smooth ice. Someone wrote a nice piece about it this weekend. But the alarm bells didn't ring any bells that Mr Akerboom made when he presented his annual report to the police? You are saying that our rule of law may not be at sneaky heights, but it didn't come up with a very flourishing picture of what the police chief himself put forward when presenting his annual papers? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u37	I value his judgment very much. In the coalition agreement, as I said, 275 million extra has been added to the public prosecutor's office and to some extent to the police to hope to do something about it. I also thought that was what the Minister was aiming for, but I can also put the question to him through you. Of course, those are real problems. The police have many challenges. You just mentioned the narco affair, the cases in illegal weed growing. But some things can't be solved one-on-one with an additional intervention in the volume and powers of the police. Of course, for some part there is also the experiment with weed cultivation that my group has advocated. That is also what has been achieved in the coalition agreement, in order to deal with things differently than we are trying to do now in the classic way. So yes, the matter is serious, something must be done about it. It's not just about perception, it's about facts. I'll talk to the judiciary about it later. And we take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u38	This experimental thing with the growing of weed is, of course, very curious in itself, where this cabinet declares war on the smoker, but let me not dwell on that. The few hundred million you mention, which I actually expected from the Minister at a later stage in this debate, is, of course, totally inadequate to do anything serious to meet the cuts in Rutte II. That's a limited catch-up. I do not think you really weigh Mr Akerboom's words very well, because they really do ring the bell. He's calling the doorbell seriously. We're losing security, we're losing power on the street. I gave you an example of a boa, but that is the daily practice of a lot of people trying to guard security in the service of the government. They're more or less desperate. You say, "We'll add a few million dollars and then we'll be fine." That is totally inadequate. That is my lesson from Mr Akerboom's communication of the week in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u39	I take note of your summary of my words. Of course, that's not what I said. But let's leave it at that. I've responded to it. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on. I am asking the rulers, and I think there is another question that comes indirectly from Mr Dercksen about what is causing this inconvenience, what could be better and what could you do about it? Then I come to the first issue of the experts, not Akerboom, but the experts of the judiciary in this case. They have sent out a strong signal that the judiciary has occupied its base well, but that the water is on the lips through a accumulation of demands. These are: firstly, an innovation of material law; that is, of course, normal, an ongoing development of the law, fortunately but I would say. Secondly, cuts imposed by the macro-budgetary demands of the previous cabinet. I also refer to the debate we had here two and a half years ago after the Franken motion and the Scholten motion on financial concerns. Thirdly, the introduction of the four legislative proposals, adopted in this house on 12 July 2016, of the Quality and Innovation of Justice Programme, KEI in popular terms. And fourthly, innovation of formal law; the part of it was the revision of Civil Procedure. It squeaks and it cracks. That was already demonstrated by the Leeuwarder Manifest, but my group has the impression that the bowing bamboo of the loyal profession of the judiciary has gradually become a standing forest, which says: we are doing our very best, but if you want something more now, then cut us down, we are no longer bending. That seems to me to be positive from the judicial point of view, because this is how a discussion should be conducted. In all independence, but you have to be able to say things to each other. It has also emerged from that expert discussion, including from the judiciary, that experiments could help. It's about experiments that have to do with the question of how to put together the separate circuits of debt issues, tax issues, confused people, so the ggz problem, in order to deal with these issues. When I look through the jargon, chain partners, experimental clauses, machine learning and all those things more................................................................................................................................................. However, there must also be a bandwidth. It can only be done if there is some space in the normal daily program. This is not there if the current financing model is based on output and fully applied for saving purposes. It is actually a double pliers: output financing and austerity targets are just in the department's basic path. We all know how that works. In the conversation it also emerged that what our predecessors may have been the President when already a member of the Chamber feared when the Law on the Judicial Organisation in 2005 and the Financing Decision was passed. As soon as budgetary need arises, the artisan estimate of time will be replaced by the question of how much money there is in the cash register. Then the chain of law will work according to the adage of former Minister Jan de Koning: if it is not possible as it should, then so be it. But the 'kan' is not determined by legal but budgetary conditions, and that is the wrong criterion. Looking beyond the border, I would like to know from the ministers how the Dutch legal chain is comparatively doing in Europe: budgetary, financial, transit times and, specifically, the costs of justice. I've already discussed the relative position. In order to get out of this dilemma, a separate budget for the judiciary has been advocated from several quarters, by analogy with the High Colleges of State. Is that an option the Minister is considering? What are the advantages and disadvantages, and what should be the decisive factor in this consideration in the interests of the rule of law? We have a great deal of reserve in the case of yet another round of savings and a round of efficiency measures in the chain of law, in which the parameter of justice or the quality of justice is at stake. Then it doesn't get better, but it gets worse. In the case law, throughout the triad and also in the legal profession, it is mainly about people, about their rights and their injustice. The unpredictability of the session is not always measured in small time units. There are strange stimuli in that system. Then the risk arises of a technically driven organisation, in extreme even with algorithms to determine the business flows, because it could of course go faster. It is important to ensure the context and balance the triad. I would welcome a critical evaluation of the financing model. I also know that incentives have been given by the Justice Council. I would like to hear the views of Minister Dekker in particular in this case. From all the documents that have been passed around the current budget, I understand that there is no money available now, but we have a finance minister who has the heart for the rule of law. I hope that the Minister will announce later that something will be added to the spring note. That would be wonderful. In the search for improvement points I can't avoid the setbacks in the execution of KEI. We were already very critical in this house in 2016 and then not so much about the idea of KEI itself as digitalisation is in fact a modernisation as it is about the combination with budgeted cuts. Mr Van der Steur defended it with passion, but we had a great deal of reserves. Unfortunately, that has not proved to be without reason. I would like to know from the Minister the current state of affairs. There's already been a whole letter circuit. We all read those letters. At first, I felt like there was a fire. That turned out to be not so bad in the end, but the report "Rodrigues" indicates that something is not right. The key question to the Minister is: is the administration of justice in danger? If not, where does it pinch the most? I am not talking about technology; I have also read that ICT architecture needs to be replaced. What is the most important thing in the consideration of the next steps to be taken? I'll look back at the state of law side of the case. I come to the second issue that we discussed with the experts, and that is access to justice. I just said something about it. The themes are, of course, linked. In the case of access to a dehumanised production plant, the case law dries. However independent, the courthouse becomes a Potemkim village or in the Russian Potjomkin village. You know the concept of President, of course, that is just a façade. On the second subject, the invited President of the Order made a point that should be addressed here. We've discussed it before. Mr Ruers has mentioned it on a regular basis. The profession of social lawyer is ageing, not because the younger lawyers are not social, but it is becoming increasingly difficult to invest a sandwich in that profession. The reports by Barkhuijzen, Wolfsen, Van der Meer also mention this. The whole funding has to do with that too. It doesn't need to be mapped anymore. We all know there's a problem. On the part of the Order, a number of suggestions have been made to improve: differentiation in legal aid and more focus on the problem. This also fits with what the courts said about experimental possibilities. I have seen that this is also the policy idea of the cabinet. Does the Minister see opportunities in the experimental law to deal specifically with the problem of social law? I do not want to anticipate too much because the preliminary draft is in consultation. I can see that the door is very wide open to all kinds of dispute resolution without a procedural representative. We'll talk about this later. We must, of course, maintain a balance in speed, simplicity, low-threshold and ultimately in justice. E-Court is also fast and low-threshold, but there are doubts about that. I was just talking about the Order, but of course there are great differences within the profession. This profession is important in the whole of the rule of law. A development is the Zuidas lawyer: high-quality service very specific to the financial domain and acquisitions...................................................................................................................................................................................... But what does this high specialisation do with the broad basis of the profession? Are the highly specialised young lawyers more widely available in other sectors of law, possibly including in social law with the subjects of rent, social insurance law, labour law and right of asylum? If the financial training capacity is not available in the smaller offices, this should be guaranteed at the larger offices. Is there at all a view of the future of the legal profession in our country by the Cabinet? I'd like to hear it. If that vision is not there, I hope it will be developed. I have a similar question about the flow in and out of the judiciary. Is continuity guaranteed and where are any bottlenecks? I'm not talking about political signature. Are working conditions and career prospects still competitive? We were just talking about getting better, but before you know it, it could get worse. Is this a matter of the Minister's attention? The sector is under intensive consideration. Last year I myself was on the Day of Justice in September in Utrecht. I've seen a very interesting scenario exercise done. That is good, but has that also resulted in a long-term vision of justice? Was it discussed and shared with the Minister? Old judges were asked in the framework of the council and the documents about their image of the future judge. I quote Mrs Adriana van Dooijeweert, who has been chairman of the Human Rights College since September 2015. Before that, she was chairman of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs and nearly 30 years of judge. She says: "I hope and think that in about 20 years' time justice will look very different." I quote from her contribution: 'We really need to ensure that the judiciary becomes much more diverse, otherwise you lose the trust of society'. By more diverse she does not mean the male-female relationship, because we know that it is well in order in the judiciary, but more diverse in many respects, of course there are also people with a migration background. Is that how the Minister sees it? I'd like his vision. In the Council's future view on justice, my attention was also drawn to the importance of the institutions of the rule of law. Not surprising, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a question about the diversity of the courts. Is that an end in itself for Mr Backer, or should we perhaps also have some quality requirements on it? Shouldn't we just use that as a leader in the appointment of judges?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you that we are here at a point where Mr Dercksen and I agree, namely that quality must of course be paramount. But in the case of equal quality, there is also a reasonable amount of debate about diversity, and the total composition of the college should also be considered. Then that is an element that needs to be taken into account, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u42	Quality is therefore at the top; that is good, but what will it do with the justice system if people of various plumages join? Does that make any other statements? What's your purpose in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u43	In the rule of law there is justice about citizens and society is pluralism. That is apparent from this debate alone. Perhaps the diversity in this Chamber is less, but society is multiform. On the other hand, it would be crazy if, in an important appeal to the judiciary, there was a dominance of one of the groups in the Netherlands of any colour, background and nature, given that I agree with your point of view that we have the same starting point for quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u44	Finally, Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u45	I think that is an important starting point. It should be the only starting point. It doesn't matter if someone is black, white or green. It's about whether it has the qualities. In some professions, more white people are represented. In some occupational groups more dark people or more women than men are represented. That's the way it is; so let's not interfere with the quality and let the quality alone guide the justice system. I think that is particularly important in the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u46	All right, Mr President, I think I asked the questions, but if that is not the case, I would ask if the ministers share this picture of diversity and perhaps also the point that we have added to the debate on the interruption. Yeah, I did ask the questions. I had arrived at another point, namely the Council's report on justice. In that report it emerged whether the constitutional review is not a miraculously missing link in the Dutch system. It has always been a special phenomenon in our country that Article 120 Constitution is not under discussion. There have been attempts to do so, and I shall look in the direction of my colleague, Mr Strik, but they have not yet come this far. What are the ministers' views on this? Would the idea of constitutional review be a useful addition to the rule of law? There is a constitutional court in many countries. So it's not a strange figure at all. Mr President, I will conclude. It requires a great effort on the part of the cabinet to compensate first for the deterioration resulting from the long-standing downward trend and from the way in which justice and the rule of law were discussed, and then to turn its policies and funding in the right direction. The fraction of D66 is convinced that it is possible, but it will not come by itself. That is certainly the conclusion that we have drawn, heard the experts and given the various investigations and reports we have consulted in this debate. It's necessary and it's important. Because the opening spirit of my contribution and the interruption I have caused shows that the D66 Group remains committed to open society and its protection lies in the democratic rule of law in a way that is generation-proof. Hence my question about the future of important players in justice and law. Mr President, my group looks forward with interest to the answers of the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The tradition of periodically contemplating the State of the Law deserves to be honored. The need to assess how developments in law, administration and the judiciary relate to the objectives of the democratic rule of law is repeated. The Netherlands is doing well on the international lists of the rule of law, which has just been recalled, but we do not have time for complacency or indifference. We know from history and see around us that the rule of law is never a matter of course; he constantly knows more threats than incentives. During the expert meeting, the striking words of our late colleague Willem Witteveen were rightly quoted: "The rule of law is not a quiet property, not a house in which we can sleep carelessly." Discussions in Dutch society often revolve around the demand for Dutch identity, as if fewer and fewer people know what our DNA is, which connects us. For my group, the democratic rule of law is at the heart of our identity. But many people no longer seem to take the principles inherent in the democratic rule of law as a starting point, not even in their search for Dutch identity. I am thinking of the separation of powers and independence of justice. We just saw a striking example of this. But I am also thinking of equality of law and legal certainty, democratic legitimacy and public accountability, recognition of individual citizenship and the role of the government in protecting civil rights. This worrying trend is not falling out of the sky. Indeed, many administrators and politicians do not always clearly follow these principles or give them priority, let alone convince citizens of the importance and reasons for their strict compliance. In order to reflect on the democratic rule of law, we will therefore have to examine all the actors within the system. The checks-and-balances within the trias politicians only work in a pure division of roles where everyone takes their own responsibility. Roll-over blurring is particularly evident in the legislative and executive powers. People's representatives who, for example, do not fulfil their role as auditors and counter-players freely and sovereignly, including through tight government agreements. The government that weakens the legal protection of citizens under the guise of countering judicialisation, for example in the field of spatial planning, the production of gas in Groningen but also partly in the social domain. Public-private cooperation, market forces, informalisation and even decentralisation sometimes make the government less accessible to people who want to address it. The legislator who does not comply with the principles of law by repealing the Advisory referendum Act without the possibility of a referendum. A government that does not adequately protect citizens from improper use of their personal data and sometimes contributes to it itself. The European legislator who fails to make the legislative process transparent, despite the explicit commandment of the Court of Justice. All these practices are alienating to citizens, who need protection against abuse of power and who need a reliable government in order to exercise their democratic rights. It is precisely at this time that it is important for citizens to know the authorities by their side, and not against themselves. We already know many uncertainties that make citizens feel they are losing their grip, including through technologicalisation and globalisation, further privatisation and flexibilisation. The government should support them in strengthening their direction over their own lives and the society in which they live. This requires thinking from a citizen's perspective and a sense of duty about the role of the government in relation to its citizens. In administrative developments where citizens' interests were one of the starting points, cost efficiency and other considerations seem to prevail. Think of the decentralisations that have been implemented in care and well-being and participation. Because they were accompanied by major cuts, the intended customization and integral work became directly more difficult to realize. As a result, particularly vulnerable people do not experience the benefits of decentralisation, but rather seem to have more difficulty finding the way to the right aid. This is in line with the worrying conclusions of last year's WRR report entitled 'Knowing', which is about the degree of self-reliance of citizens. The WRR notes that a large group of citizens, including those with good education and good social status, can get involved in situations where their self-reliance is insufficient. However, the government's policy is based on citizens' own responsibility, based primarily on the rationalistic perspective. This makes it unnecessary for many people to fall between shores and ships and makes it even more difficult for them to bear their own responsibilities. The WRR therefore advocates a realistic perspective that provides people with a grasp of their own direction, but which also enhances the legitimacy of government and policies. The impact of the government approach may be illustrated by the current debt industry, where companies buy up claims and thus haunt the debtor for years, and again and again with even higher accounts. Many debtors can no longer go to the government and, if they are already in a debt restructuring process, their dependence on commercial directors usually does not help them to get their lives in order. They often only get further into isolation. The ideal of self-conscious people who make their own choices, let alone the ideal of the intended participatory society, is therefore further out of sight. Do the ministers share our perception of these developments? What are they talking about? How is the government going to ensure that people are supported in conducting their daily direction in an increasingly complex society? Mr. Chairman. In a democratic rule of law, a self-conscious government stands for its citizens and offers them legal certainty and the opportunity to stand up for themselves, including the government itself. This includes that human rights not only work as an instructional standard for the government, but that they can also be invoked by citizens if they feel that the government is not fulfilling its obligations. The Dutch Government should therefore also give its citizens access to individual complaints under international conventions. This Chamber called on the government to do so in a motion years ago. As far as we are concerned, this was the case for the optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Disability Convention and the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. For years the government has shrouded itself in silence about this and ignored the repeated appeals of this Chamber. Your predecessor finally agreed last year to submit a law of approval for the ratification of the optional protocol to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In doing so, the Council of State would also be asked to give an opinion on individual complaints under the other two conventions. So far we have not seen any movement, but a new cabinet gives new opportunities for fulfilling commitments. Can the Minister state how far this bill is going? Mr. Chairman. With a government that seems to withdraw more and more, legal protection and the fight for the rule of law are increasingly being brought to justice. That judge sometimes doesn't hesitate to do so; think of the Urgenda case, for example. At the same time, the judiciary is dependent on that legislative and executive power to fulfil its function, and there are serious concerns about this, as our expert meeting and the preparation for it have shown. The judiciary is strongly driven by cost-efficiency, while high-quality and independent justice is not measured by speed and quantity. The declining budgets put serious pressure on the quality of justice, according to research. There is too little time for a case and it takes too long for a case to be dealt with and for citizens to be given the verdict. Too few new judges are trained. New developments are on the judiciary's own account. For example, the judiciary is not compensated for additional pressure resulting from new legislation and the investment in the digitisation of justice also turns out to be a cake of its own. While judges, from their professional point of view, have little control over major operations such as the revision of the judicial card and KEI, evaluations show how little added value has been and how much goes wrong. Implementing much-needed innovations while the rack is out and saving is made in advance is also a question of failure and, in any case, of failure to achieve the goals. I'm sure judges would love to. So give them space in time, money and control. Let's make quality and professional standards leading again. Good justice is not a product, let alone a functioning rule of law. Does the Minister recognise the current problems and, if so, what solutions does he envisage? Partly because of this tight position and partly because of other measures restricting access to justice, the courts experience substantially less influx of cases. Citizens experience too high financial thresholds, so they have to do without justice. The prosecution is dropping more and more criminal cases, which means that citizens do not receive all the necessary guarantees. Companies experience access to efficient justice as too limited and find their way to alternative dispute resolution, such as e-courts. However, the latter are not subject to the same criteria, such as hearing and hearing, transparency and other principles of law. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that the standards of our procedural law will also be met in these forms of dispute settlement? If we want to give the judiciary the necessary professional space, then we will have to bear in mind the policies of recent years, such as the introduction of integrated management and the Council for Justice, the scaling-up of courts and the abolition of canton courts. Have they indeed contributed to independent and accessible justice, not only for the sake of fair decisions but also of legal form and public enforcement? We must also be prepared to reconsider the system of output financing and assess whether an independent budget for the judiciary would not be much better, precisely in order to protect the rule of law. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Is he willing to develop a vision on this? And will the Minister, in the shorter term, be prepared to examine the current bottlenecks and assess the implications of funding that should be provided in the Spring Note or the forthcoming budget? Innovation space is advocated from all sides, and more specifically calls for closer proximity to citizens in terms of greater accessibility and more tailor-made work. Effective justice requires an individual assessment and approach, and support for citizens' decision-making. Those are cases that the canton judge just excelled in. Thus, while the government seems to have placed judges more at a distance from citizens, the call for court judges or peace judges, as they call them in the Belgian system, is increasingly louder, not least from the mouth of the judges themselves. From the recognition that by far the largest group of seekers of justice never gets to a judge, they want new practices and innovations to bring them closer to the people. These people are often deprived of impartial and expert dispute-solvers, and this directly affects their confidence in the rule of law. There has now been positive experience with the House of Law and the court of procedure, and the government agreement states that experiments will be carried out with the district court. Of course, these matters are mutually exclusive, but I would like to be even more clear about the precise level of ambition of the Minister. On what scale are these experiments carried out? Are the experiences with the court and the Belgian court of peace involved? And in what time does the Minister intend to give it structural space? Does he expect to be able to do so within this cabinet period? Mr. Chairman. I have just referred to other factors restricting access to justice. In part, it concerns the increase in registry fees, but it also concerns limited access to legal aid. I am thinking of small businesses and, in any case, of those who have too high a threshold for legal aid insurance. But other groups of low-income legal persons also face limited access to funded legal aid. The government has written in the coalition agreement that no jurisdiction is excluded from legal aid, and that is profit. But as far as the scope and criteria are concerned, we are still in the dark. According to the government agreement, the revision of legal aid should remain within the existing budgetary frameworks. There seems to be a problem. The Van der Meer Committee concludes that there is serious delay in the maintenance of the legal aid financed. If the number of additions does not decrease, the budget will have to increase significantly to keep up the reward. At the end of November last year, the Minister announced that he would allocate six months for further consultation and exploration with the field. What has been achieved so far and what measures can we expect? Is it not, in the end, a political choice that must be made for an accessible system of legal aid, a choice that may cost unavoidable money? Mr. Chairman. Another agreement in the agreement also poses a direct threat to access to justice for asylum seekers. The plan to abolish their legal aid prior to the IND's intention to reject the decision will affect the quality of the decision, particularly in view of the eight-day asylum procedure uniquely short in Europe. The Netherlands has always mentioned legal aid prior to the decision to justify this rapid asylum procedure. It could have been carefully because legal aid was involved from the outset. That was even so convincing that Switzerland has taken over the system completely. Legal aid was even the decisive argument in the referendum on the rapid asylum procedure. And now the government itself is threatening to abolish the guarantee but not the speed of the procedure. This cannot be done without impunity, it seems to our group. An important argument has always been that high quality will reduce the number of appeals and follow-up requests. Will the government make an impact assessment on both quality and number of procedures before implementing this plan? Mr. Chairman. I mentioned earlier the growing loss of grip for citizens due to the rapidly evolving technology. Politics must have an answer to that. For example, future algorithms can search more in one day than many lawyers and lawyers in their entire lives. Virtually infallible lie detectors can see in our brains in the near future using fmri-scans whether or not we're lying. Even facial recognition will soon be impossible to imagine in many areas of government policy. In order to securely organise and secure further digitisation of our rule of law, the greatest challenge is to remain in control of technology. Especially when it affects fundamental human rights, the global free market is not the right party to have power. Algorithms are anything but neutral or value-free. Take software programs that assist judges in the United States and calculate whether a suspect is going to make another mistake. They appear to be totally discriminatory. The algorithm predicted correctly in 60% of the cases if someone went back into error, but the margin of error was twice as large in black Americans. Big data is also used in the Netherlands to distil risk profiles: in the case of residential fraud, financial fraud and the use of police. Does the government agree with us that it is very important that there should be control and transparency when the algorithm affects fundamental fundamental rights of our citizens? In addition, public services are increasingly dependent on algorithms developed by private parties, making it difficult to determine what choices have been made and what effect that has. Companies now often fail to understand the build-up of their algorithms due to sensitive business information. Does the government agree with GroenLinks that the government and the citizen need to understand all the underlying information of an algorithm built by a private company if that affects fundamental or human rights? Knowledge is power and deserves democratic legitimacy and control, especially when it comes to knowledge about the interpretation and application of laws and rules. But in this context, the growing power of the large, often American tech companies is also worrying. We all know them: Facebook, Google, Apple and Amazon. They are richer and more powerful than many countries on earth and have hidden monopolies in their markets. After all, data is the new gold. Is the government prepared to gain more control within the EU framework, possibly in cooperation with the US, over these data flows of US companies to protect our citizens and to break their monopoly position? What opportunities does the Minister see for defending the interests and rights of citizens vis-à-vis these companies? Mr. Chairman. The Rathenau Institute concluded some time ago that increasing digitalisation puts pressure on important public values such as equal treatment, privacy, autonomy and human dignity. It is high time to recognise the fundamental impact of digitalisation on society and ensure that public values and fundamental rights are safeguarded in the digital age. My group therefore welcomes the Minister's announcement to investigate the impact of algorithms and the safeguarding of our public values in the digital age. Are these investigations conducted in inter-departmental coordination? Is the role of supervisors also involved in these investigations? And what planning does the Minister plan for the coming years: is he committed to making use of the studies for a cabinet vision and for the possible introduction of measures? How does the government involve Parliament in the necessary reflection on the governance of social and ethical digitisation issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u49	I share a great deal of what you, Mrs Strik, call about the impact of digitalisation on the rule of law. I also share your concerns that a few large tech companies actually control all our data and thus also the information we get to us, by whom we are informed and how we are informed. At the same time, I hear you asking about developing a cabinet vision, even this cabinet period. I take it for a moment that this cabinet period is going on for a very long time, but in a cabinet vision, I wonder: doesn't that take a little longer, shouldn't we take action faster, because digitisation isn't waiting for a cabinet vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u50	That is true, a vision can be a long-term process. It can go faster, too. That is why I want more insight into the agenda of the ministers. I would be very sorry, and indeed not in accordance with the urgency of this problem, if we have a vision at the end of this cabinet period and it is up to a subsequent cabinet to implement it. I really hope that we will have an ambitious, yet realistic answer from the Minister. I therefore share the sense of urgency expressed by Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you. I share that ambition with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Home, garden and kitchen digitization also require a greater sense of urgency in the cabinet. ICT problems continue to haunt the government, as a recent study by the General Court showed. In no less than nine ministries, the security of the computer systems is raging. At the Ministry of the Interior, the back door for cybercriminals and malicious hackers was even wide open until last month, discovered the control authority. I hope that there will be no further explanation of the fact that these shortcomings are also linked to the rule of law. Finally, Mr President. Lists are beautiful and it's good that we're higher in line, but they shouldn't blind us either. There is a lot of work to be done and a lot of reflection is needed. In that context, I hope for strong and ambitious answers from the ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A Roman priest, a righteous man, who sighs annoyedly: "This is not my rule of law anymore." His church, in Tilburg, was desecrated by the recording of a porn movie. Obviously without permission. Porn actors made obscene recordings in, among other things, the confessional booth. Nothing to do, the prosecutor said, and the minister shared that conclusion, so he also reported the Senate. According to the letter of the law, perhaps correct, but actually too crazy for words. Are churches outlaws then? Is it really just legal to make dirty videos in buildings that are sacred to believers without permission? And what if this had happened in a mosque? At the expert meeting held in this building, Madame said. Wiertz, President of the Brabant Court, said: "There is only a rule of law when people feel that they can make use of it." If this notion was not violated in the case mentioned, I ask the Minister. The Minister states in his letter on the subject that additional legislation would be possible at municipal level. That's good. Is the Minister prepared to engage actively with municipalities and actively promote this? Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber has often spoken with Ministers of Justice about the democratic rule of law and about access to justice. I am thinking of the budget debate with Minister Van der Steur at the end of 2015. A question was then raised which was also raised recently by one of the speakers at the expert meeting organised by the First Chamber on this subject. The speaker in question was Mrs Prins, President of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. She quoted in her contribution from a WRR report on the rule of law: "Normals and values are not self-executing. The rule of law includes an ethos, an ethos of self-evident behaviour and expectations. Maintaining the values of the rule of law is like maintaining a friendship. From time to time, she needs to be confirmed and renewed. In the event of neglect, the main values fall into disarray and fall short of what is considered desirable. Sometimes they are completely lost." That is why the question is: what are the assumptions of our democratic rule of law, the ethos thereof? What is this democratic rule of law supporting? What's her content? We are not talking first of all about the level of registry rights, about the number of courts or about subsidised legal aid, about careful procedures or about representativeness, no matter how important. The question then is which people should shape the rule of law. What are they like in life, with what values, norms and ideals? What moral compass are they led by? In our present society, with a solid secular majority and emerging non-Christian religions such as Islam, that is a serious question. The current morality in our country is in many respects a negative morality, in that sense the mirror image of the original Christian morality. Remembrances of the Christian past have often been replaced by their counterparts. Think of the protection of life, the protection of what is holy, marriage, sexual morality or the place of Sunday. Certainly, we have long known the separation of Church and State. But that divorce was always accompanied by full churches. In this sense, Christian morality and legislation in the public domain remained closely interwoven. It's gone. Christian faith has evaporated from the sphere of education, education, politics and culture. What are the consequences of that? Is our democratic rule of law conceivable without Christian morality? According to Thorbecke, to quote anyone, no. "Christianity has permeated our entire society, all our institutions, education, and our association and civilization." And of course Thorbecke it is only a small step to the VVD. Nor has the VVD placed the significance of Christianity on our rule of law. In Article 3 of the 1959 VVD's programme of principle, a while ago, but also not very long ago, the following statement states: "The Party is deeply convinced that the foundations of Dutch civilization are rooted in Christianity. She is aware that it is above all the Christian spirit, which made our people realize the value and freedom of man and his responsibility and which has determined the standing of our people in the world. It therefore considers it an inexplicable requirement that by strengthening this spirit moral uprooting and spiritual nihilism be overcome. She is fully aware that the moral principles of Christianity are adhered to by very many, who do not profess Christian religion." For the record, this is the VVD principle programme and not the SGP of 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u55	I would like to draw Mr Van Dijk's attention to the new programmes of principle that have since seen life. Programmes from after 1959, in which the Christian-Jewish tradition is still mentioned, but not as extensive and not in a 1959 translation. At the end of the debate, I would like to share it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u56	I would like to thank the honourable spokesperson. So you can see that not every innovation is an improvement. I'm gonna finish my speech. I can't help it, but I'm still in the VVD. I really like that party, too. Frits Bolkestein said it like this: "We can say, hi, we are not Christians anymore. But does that hold in the long run? Where are we in fifty to eighty years?" That was Bolkestein and Bolkestein's sharp question: "How are we without this faith in fifty years' time?', Still waiting for a substantive answer. The Christian-Normative principles have been abolished, but what principles do we now support our democratic rule of law? What moral code carries our democracy? What technique does a secular order actually have to transfer moral values and code of conduct so that our civilization remains intact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u57	I would like to express some courage to Mr Van Dijk by pointing out to him the existence of old values which actually existed before Christianity and which support much of the morality in society. I think that when I look at the social-liberal principles of my own group, they also find their basis in them. Many of the humanists in the Netherlands also have that basis. So the exclusivity that you are now claiming for the right path, I understand that from your background and the group you represent, perhaps goes a little too far and the conclusion that is attached to it, perhaps as well. I would like to link to this observation a question that Mr Dercksen asked me surprisingly. Would this also mean that the composition of the judiciary should be a Jewish-Christian tradition in your view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u58	I would like to begin by thanking Mr Bakker for his encouraging remarks and also because D66 wants to promote the necessary, but that aside. Mr Backer spoke of a kind of exclusive claim that I would like to impose on this as it were. Let me therefore really stress that I certainly do not want to argue that if Christians now have a majority here again, or in the judiciary, we have a model society, we have a model legal state. That's not the point. In that sense, the question I would like to raise is not an original question at all. Other non-Christian thinkers have also raised them; I mentioned Frits Bolkestein. I do believe that Christian faith has been extremely formal for the implementation of our rule of law, society and the way we deal with each other. The question is - now that it has been lost in the broad sense of society - what has replaced it and what is now the moral code? I am indeed concerned about that and hence my question. I also mean this seriously as a question and I welcome the interruption. To what extent is our democratic rule of law conceivable without those assumptions that are always very clearly coloured by the Christian tradition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. I'm not picking up an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u60	Your final question, indeed, what does that mean for the composition of the judiciary and so on? I think that's a very difficult question. This simply applies first and foremost to the need for a judge to operate within the framework of our current democratic rule of law and thus not to demonstrate his own personal religious et cetera beliefs. Here: quality is leading. The judge also takes an oath on the Constitution, legislation and the like. That's how he's supposed to operate. So in that sense I also like to stay far away from the religious, personal backgrounds of the judges, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u61	I would believe that the principle of separation between church and state is leading. Does Mr Van Dijk share that principle? This is probably a rhetorical question, but I'm asking him anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u62	It's a good question. I also share, of course, the principle of the separation of church and state. I say in one breath, however, that in our view both the church and the state are only really in place if they also want to listen to the Bible. That is my political conviction, which I also like to express. But at the same time, indeed, the church has nothing to say about the state and the state should not interfere with the internal affairs of the church. But that's not exactly the point I want to make here either. My point is therefore about the assumptions of the democratic rule of law. I tried to say something about that. More specifically, I asked Minister Van der Steur at the time to be responsible for the relationship with the churches in order to discuss this issue with the churches. At that time he generously promised, and he even made a serious start on it. He attended a divine service of the reformed church in Gouda, where the church council also spoke, attended Sunday school et cetera. My specific question to the Minister is whether he accepts that commitment from Minister Van der Steur and would also like to enter into this discussion with the churches on the principles that underpin our democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. I would like to put my finger on two persistent issues that should not really occur in our rule of law. The Netherlands has a small Jewish minority. However, a minority faced with frequent anti-Semitism. Jews are extremely overrepresented as victims of discrimination and feel less and less at home in our country. "A wise Jew always has his suitcase ready," writes Leon de Winter somewhere. An unacceptable reality in our rule of law. In the Second World War Jews had to wear a star; now they have to leave their yarmulke at home. Diversity is very fashionable today. See for example the rainbow flags at city halls. Isn't it high time for an annual anti-Semitism flag at city halls? Does the minister want to consult with municipalities? Crimes against Jewish purposes must be unequivocally condemned for their anti-Semitic character. Isn't it a first-order mistake for an Arab refugee attacking a kosher Amsterdam restaurant to be treated as a simple vandal? We are talking about imported hatred and against it our rule of law should be strong. Now the prosecution will undoubtedly pay a great deal of attention to this, but will it be sufficiently visible? And does that also have sufficient deterrent effect? The same applies to the threat to politicians. We have become used to politicians like Geert Wilders being almost permanently threatened and offended across the street. Here again, I'd like to believe that the D.A. is on top of it. But what do we see of that? Can't it be different and better? Why, for example, are not some of these cases being swept together and dealt with from time to time in one major criminal case, surrounded by the necessary PR? I call this a show trial, but of course not a show trial in the sense of a fake trial, but a grand process with the cameras showing that we do not tolerate this kind of frequent offences and crimes in any way in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u63	So far I am very pleased with Mr Van Dijk's contribution. That can be said at some point. Now he says he has the impression that the Public Prosecutor's Office is on top of it where the attack on that kosher restaurant in Amsterdam was concerned. Where does he get that from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u64	I conclude from this in particular that, frankly, I have no reason to say that the public prosecutor considers these kinds of things to be gambles. I know, your statement is indeed: they go too easily over it. I'm simply not that far. I don't believe that. I still have a great deal of faith in both our judges and in the Public Prosecutor's Office that they deal with this kind of matter in conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u65	Well, I haven't gone into detail about this case, but I think it's true that the prosecution has already taken a number of steps that can only condemn this man as a vandal and not for what it was much more. So how much they are on top of it, I dare put my doubts about it. Maybe we can pass that question on to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Dercksen. I also started my block towards the Minister: the question of whether it is not a mistake of the first order et cetera that someone is treated like a simple vandal. So I put the question to the Minister, and so we know him. I am also counting on a clear answer. So I was talking about wiping up criminal proceedings to show that we do not accept anti-Semitism and treat it harshly, in order to show that threats to politicians can never happen unpunished. In short, my question is: what are the possibilities of making criminal proceedings a clear and terrifying statement? Finally. More than a year ago, this Chamber spoke to the Minister about the withdrawal of the Dutch identity of terrorists. At that time this Chamber also accepted a motion, the motion in part No. 34356 H, in which the Cabinet was called upon to come up with alternatives to the rather bizarre construction that the Minister must automatically challenge his own withdrawal decision, even if that is contrary to the purpose of the person concerned. The Chamber has, I know, never heard anything about this again. How was this motion carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman. Today, the state of the rule of law is central. There is little discussion about the definition of the rule of law, but the state of the Dutch rule of law is all the more important. I repeat, at the expert meeting of 6 February 2018, Mrs Wiertz-Wezenbeek quoted the quote by law-abiding scientist Witteveen, who has just been proposed by Mr Strik: "A rule of law is not a peaceful property, not a house in which we can sleep carefree." This is so strikingly reflected because it is in line with the numerous changes in our society and beyond, which many fear will put pressure on the Dutch rule of law if we do not continue to pay the necessary attention and care. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to focus on the position of the judiciary and on the position of citizens in the rule of law. From 2010 onwards, the case law had to cut, inter alia, through the introduction of output financing, which meant that the budget made available depends on the performance delivered. Soon, the principles of output financing proved unrealistic; the time per legal act for judges proved to be far too short. As a result, the workload on the case law increased enormously, which did not improve the quality of judgments. Digital legal litigation was introduced under the project name KEI, which stands for Quality and Innovation, in order to work more efficiently and cheaply. KEI had to greatly simplify, standardise and digitise work processes and procedures across four different jurisdictions. But this digitization wasn't on its own. The Court of Justice has adopted something that has often been warned against in the past, namely a combination of far-reaching automation coupled with an in-depth reorganisation. The initial budget of the KEI project was EUR 7 million, but the KEI project has already cost EUR 200 million. With KEI, the case law would have saved 270 million a year, but only 7 million for 2018 is in the budget. So this only accounts for a fraction of what was intended. According to the NRC d.d. 13 April last, with the headline "Now no extra money digitisation case law," the Minister for Legal Protection considers it irresponsible to continue in the way that is now being advocated. But is the Minister, I would ask him, prepared to make additional funds available for smaller digitization projects when the conditions he has mentioned are met? In addition to the KEI project, the reorganisation of HGK was introduced (revision of judicial card) which meant that the number of nineteen arrondissementsparkets was reduced to ten arrondissementsparkets. The insufficient budgets for HGK and KEI were so high on the total budget that far too little money was left for actual justice. What have these developments meant for the citizens? Is access to justice still sufficiently secure for all those who need it? Does the reduction in the number of arrondissementsparkets also constitute a physical barrier for the vulnerable citizen to achieve his or her rights? Will further digitisation of litigation not lead to further misunderstandings among citizens? We have a group of 2.5 million low-literate people in the Netherlands and also large groups of older people who are not used to dealing with computers. For them, this digitalisation constitutes an even greater threshold for achieving their rights, according to practice. The original objective of achieving easier access to justice through digitalisation appears to be illusory. It is not easier for citizens and often produces an opposite effect of what it was intended to do. The savings made in recent years on the system of funded legal aid are taking their toll. In the report by Herman van der Meer, President of the Amsterdam Court, entitled Other Tijden, it is clear that the social lawyers have much more work to do on matters than they are paid for. The result is a drop in social law. The NRC wrote on 17 May young members: "Cabinet underestimates depth of the crisis in legal aid." Our group is asking the Minister how he intends to resolve this crisis. Moreover, the current system is, as it were, a division between population groups, between people who can claim it and those who are just above the border to be eligible for it. For the latter group, the high fees and attorneys' fees are often reason to waive the corridor to the judge. This is often about people who work in small and medium-sized enterprises, but also the growing group of people who work in small and medium-sized enterprises cannot afford financial procedures. They must necessarily accept the violation of their rights. This is, of course, a very undesirable development because the trust of citizens in the rule of law is essential in order for it to function properly. When the case-law is no longer able to meet the citizens' requirement to provide accessible, rapid and affordable justice, it is possible that third parties, mostly commercial institutions, will be able to jump into the gap created. It's already happening. What about e-Court? There is a danger that so-called pseudo- or parallel justice will arise with all the undesirable consequences of that. After all, it is unclear who is behind these statements, and there is no question of transparency. Is it the Minister's intention to extend this development of pseudo-justice further? If so, does the Minister not consider this to undermine the principles of the rule of law? If not, what is the Minister going to do against the developments surrounding e-Court? Ms Westerveld, Professor of Social Insurance Law at the UvA, stated in her contribution on 6 February that digitisation of justice should be required, but that the vision of the Ministry is not recognised by those who have to implement it. She proposes to start a think tank with professionals from the judiciary and people from ICT who together make a format for how justice can be more efficient. What is the Minister's position on this proposal and does he recognize himself in her criticism? Another much-heard complaint was that until now there has been insufficient thought about whether new legislation can also be digitised properly. Mr Van Tongeren, General Deacon, and Mr Sterk, Vice-President of the Court of Justice, stressed at the expert meeting that new legislation often did not reflect on the framework within which it was placed, whether this legislation was necessary, whether sufficient funding had been made available for it, and whether the organisation which had to apply the law had been sufficiently equipped to that end. In determining the budget by the Ministry, no or insufficient account shall be taken of the implementation of new legislation at a later date. An example of this is the enhanced position of a victim in criminal proceedings. The granting of the right to speak means that more time must be available at the hearing, so that costs more money. Literally, mr. Van Tongeren: "Legislation is prepared and written without considering whether the underlying organisation can handle it and what its effect is in practice." The latter was meant at whether something is feasible, but also whether it can be digitized. I would like my group from the Minister to hear what he is going to do with this criticism and what he thinks about the applicability of digitalisation in future legislation. The Justice Council has repeatedly argued that there is an urgent need for a budget for innovation to continue to follow the rapid changes both for social innovation and for technological innovation. The board has been warning about financial deficits for some time now. For a number of years, the Council has been asking for a structural additional budget of EUR 50 million. This money is needed to ensure the quality and accessibility of justice. Is the Minister for Legal Protection prepared to comply with this request in the Spring Paper? On the world index for the rule of law, the Rule of Law Index..................................................................................................................... If the Minister for Legal Protection does not intend to make additional money available, this could be disastrous in view of the already existing shortcomings in the case law. If citizens are unable to receive proper assistance and refrain from legal representation because of excessive costs, there is a risk that they will stand up against the rule of law because they are estranged from it. That must be prevented at all times. The house of justice must be maintained and that costs money. But how does that rhyme with the next statement by a minister spokesperson quoted in the NRC of 16 May last? "The Minister is not going to change the current financial frameworks. After the summer he comes up with a strong directional perspective on the revision of the legal aid system. Which direction exactly goes in is still unclear." 50PLUS would like the Minister to give a hint of the veil and indicate what this review is going to look like. After all, the summer is approaching with raging paces. We look forward with interest to answering the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u69	I listened with great interest to Mrs Baay's contribution. Among other things, she expressed concerns about access to justice, especially for people who are not eligible for funded legal aid. I hear you asking questions about the Minister's response to reports from, among others, Van der Meer, but what solution does the 50PLUS Group see for the group which is not eligible for that funded legal aid, however, seeking access to that case law, but because of the high costs that often leave behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. This could include, for example, a reduction in registry fees. That could also be access, which was advocated at the expert meeting, to bring the right a little closer to the citizen through, for example, the court of arbitration. Mr Lennaerts is very much in favour of this. I refer to Belgium, where good results have been achieved, which makes it much more accessible to this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Four years ago, the first policy debate on the State of the Law took place in this Chamber. The spokesman for the Labour Party, our unfortunately deceased former colleague Willem Witteveen, argued in his contribution to this debate over and over again after several years. My group is pleased that during this parliamentary term too, the Chamber is giving itself the opportunity to reflect on this important issue and is now in favour of continuing to do so in the future. The rule of law is of great importance to my party. It must meet a number of requirements. For example, any public action must be based on a general rule which is applicable for repeated application and must be a separation of powers, with in particular an independent judiciary. Reading the report from the debate in 2014, I noticed that the main points at the time and now are very similar. Access to justice and justice, the level of registry rights, the worrying situation of subsidised legal aid, the fear that cost control seems to go beyond access to justice, the placing of police forces in one ministry, OM and case law and the KEI project, are subjects that were explicitly addressed at that time and they are all of them unabatedly up-to-date. Mr President, it has been said before: our rule of law is at a high level. We live in one of the most stable constitutional states in the world. And again: on the world index for the rule of law, the Netherlands has been in the top with a fifth place for years. But the rule of law is not static. I also like to quote Willem Witteveen, who says: "No quiet property, no house in which we can sleep carefree." He expressed that extremely strikingly. It is an achievement that needs our constant care. Several speakers discussed the state of justice in relation to the state of the rule of law at the expert meeting. After reading the report of this meeting, my conclusion, as a 'newcomer' in this area, is that it is not easy and that there are many legitimate concerns about the state of justice and the distance of citizens from that case law. Citizens should be able to trust that the government protects them on the basis of established laws and rules, and if they do not, they should be able to go to independent courts. And that trust is under pressure. All contributions, as well as the Council's annual report on the case-law, give the impression that the case-law, as an independent power against legislator and administration, is running against its borders and that access to justice and justice are under considerable pressure. One of the speakers at the expert meeting expressed the following strikingly: "there is only a rule of law when people feel that they can make use of it." This has already been mentioned by several speakers. Does the Minister share the sketched picture? Are the concerns expressed by many also the concerns of the Minister? Mr. Chairman. The WRR report "Knowing is not yet doing" shows that "thinking power" is not the same as "doing power." "Knowing" does not automatically mean "doing." The report makes it clear that there is a big difference between what the government expects of its citizens and what they do. Not because they don't want to, but because they can't. The WRR notes that the government wrongly relies too much on the self-reliance of citizens. A similar conclusion can be drawn from a study by the University of Groningen, which shows that low literacy is an important cause of debt. Almost 2.5 million Dutch people, two thirds of whom are immigrants, are low-literate and therefore do not understand their accounts. Half of the people with problematic debts appear to be people who have difficulty reading and calculating. Not paying bills is often not unwilling, but powerless. And in the aforementioned report of the WRR it can be read that the largest creditor of the Netherlands is the government in all its various qualities. In my group's view, this means that the government must have a realistic perspective of what it can expect from its citizens and take this into account in policy, legislation and access to facilities. If this is not done, the gap between higher and lower-skilled will widen and citizens' confidence in the rule of law will be further reduced. It also means that the government has a duty to ensure proper access to the independent judge. Not only for citizens who know the roads and can arrange them themselves, but for the large group who cannot. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the important points for my group within the two issues agreed in the Committee on Justice and Security. First of all, the importance of an independent case-law. Within the trias politicians, the three state powers must relate equally to each other. In this context, we believe that a budget of our own for justice, separated from the budget of Justice and Security and established separately by the Second and First Chambers, is appropriate. Why, according to ministers, should the budget for justice be part of their ministry's budget? Does this not affect the independent position of the case-law? I would like to endorse what Mr Backer has said about this. In this context, my group once again raises the issue of the bundling of police, prosecutor's office and justice within a single ministry that we consider undesirable. In October 2015, Mr De Graaf tabled a motion on this point, which was adopted by this Chamber. Unfortunately, Mr President, this has not led to the desired result. We are calling again for attention to be paid to this point, given that the coalition agreement does show a lot of intentions with regard to security, but much less is devoted to justice. And although this cabinet has its own Minister for Legal Protection, it does not remove our concerns about over-emphasising security at the expense of justice. I would like a response from both ministers on this point. There are major financial problems in the case-law. For the first time, red figures are written in the 2017 Annual Report of the Court of Justice. Renewals, such as the KEI, are paid out of own funds and the reduction in the number of court cases and the way in which the case law is financed reduces the amount of money received. My group considers this extremely serious, in the interests of citizens and businesses seeking justice. We have to note that, in addition to the Council for Justice, the Minister at the time was far too optimistic about the KEI project. In his letter to this Chamber, the Minister writes that stopping digitisation is not an option. In the debate in the Lower House, however, he also stated that it was a choice of case law itself to fill in previous austerity orders with future revenues. Now that these benefits are delayed, the Minister of Justice wants to hear what possible solutions can be found. What solutions does the Minister himself see? Doesn't putting the ball back in the courts mean cutting back? My group cannot escape the impression that the Minister is putting forward a major problem in this way and that the citizen seeking justice is at risk of being the victim of it. Is the Minister confident that the words of the President-in-Office of the Council for justice, 'the innovations will ultimately bring great savings', will become reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u73	I would like to ask the PvdA spokesperson to address the question of what, in her view, are the advantages of an independent budget for justice. What are the consequences when the budget is exceeded? In the current case, there is always the fallback option of the Ministry of Justice, but not in that case. I would like to have an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u74	I have placed this in the context of the importance that my group attaches to an independent position of justice vis-à-vis the other powers. In this context, it seems obvious to us that the budget of justice is not part of the budget of the Ministry of Justice, but has its own budget. Of course, when drawing up this budget, the benefits and costs of that budget will have to be carefully assessed; this is no different in other areas. But the importance of a budget of its own and a budget of its own, which is also taking place in both Chambers' decision-making, is of importance to my group in the context of a pure separation of powers. Mr President, I was in the middle of my speech on the problems of Quality and Innovation. I would have stayed with the question of whether the Minister is a little naive. What has he learned from previous ICT projects, such as national police? In my group's view, it cannot be the case that cuts do not allow necessary innovations within the judiciary, that registry rights should be raised again, or that the quality of justice is affected because even less time is available to deal with cases. In general consultation in the Lower House, the Minister stated that "the bottom of the equalization reserve is in sight and that this calls for decision-making in the Spring Note." That sounds hopeful. Can the Minister explain what he means by this? A third point is the lack of judges. The expert meeting has once again shown that the workload is high, that judges run against their borders and that, despite the additional judges appointed in 2017, the lead times are not shorter. There are vacancies all over the country. As a PvdA Group, we have been able to make a small contribution to alleviating the need by handing over a highly valued and expert member of the political group to the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court, but unfortunately the problem has not been solved. That is why the Minister is asking what measures he is going to take to remedy the shortage of judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u75	It is a contemplative debate, but it is also a political chamber. You say that you have made a small contribution to the loss of Mrs Beuving. That's too bad, but all right, the contribution is there. But the Labour Party has been in the cabinet for four years. You referred to a debate that took place four years ago in which these matters were noted. We've been four years. Of course, you could have made another contribution to this. Why didn't that happen? Does that have anything to do with prioritization? What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u76	That's a political question. I am particularly focused on today's problems. I have not been to the expert meeting myself, but I have read the reports. One of the things that struck me in that was the high workload in the judiciary while the lead times are not getting short. This means that the issue of how to put the judiciary in order is a matter for us. Maybe we should have done something about that in the last few years. It wasn't exactly the position I was in, but I think it's a fair question. Moreover, I believe that you have raised this point yourself. You are right to ask the Minister what he intends to do about this. My final point in this connection is that increasing the number of judges in the view of my group is a limit and that it will also have to be examined to what extent our judicial system needs to be adapted. That brings me to my fourth point. Several speakers stressed the need for innovation within and outside the judiciary. In the report "Human and just: Is the rule of law there for the citizen?" The researchers of The Hague Institute for Innovation of Law give an idea of a legal sector that is caught up in old rules of the game. It is about the lack of innovation, about the disappointment of citizens seeking justice, about inefficient justice that, although it resolves a conflict but does not solve the underlying problem, and about the Ministry of Justice and Security that does not direct the process of renewal. It also addresses a number of bottlenecks that would hamper innovation: within the Council of Justice, the Ministry and the Dutch Bar Association, there does not seem to be a common vision to go massively further with the experiments under way. In addition, the necessary resources are lacking and legal obstacles are hindering. That's a big deal. Does the Minister recognize this extremely serious picture? Does he agree with the researchers that innovation is necessary? Not all disputes call for a judge's ruling. New forms of dispute resolution, which have a low threshold, can lead to a quick and comprehensive solution of a problem, facilitate access to justice and thus increase citizens' confidence in justice. In this context, I like to use my experience in Winschoten, the city that in 1995, when I became mayor, had a flourishing and widely respected canton court. Until the beginning of this century, there has been a network of canton dishes in this country. Also in Winschoten, center municipality in an area of about 60,000 inhabitants. In 1811 the city was designated as the seat of the Justice of the Peace, a concept that may be heard more often in this debate; I look at Mr Ruers. Dispute settlement was done by canton judges who lived in the region and were respected persons in the local community. Then there were canton judges from the city of Groningen who were no longer connected to East Groningen, more and more cases were done in Groningen and an increasing part of the building became empty. Winschoten became subsidiary, then seat and in 2013 it was decided to close down because it did not pay to adapt the building to mandatory security measures. The sad consequence is that citizens and businesses now have to travel to the city of Groningen. Mr. Chairman. Several experts have pointed out that physical proximity is important and that being able to walk in for many citizens to discuss your problem is a better way than by telephone or digital contact. My group is therefore charmed by Mr Lennaerts' idea of setting up cantons of between 50,000 and 60,000 inhabitants with a self-employed court judge, who is the general practitioner of the legal world. Former judge and former MP Recourt goes one step further and calls for a second-line provision to be made of the judge by creating a first line, similar to health care, in the form of a counter where the best solution is to be found for a specific case and from which discipline that can best be promoted. In Recourt's view, that should not necessarily be the judge, but could also be a mediator, a behavioral expert or a divorce expert, for example. These are interesting proposals which can also help to reduce the need for recourse to the judges and to improve the balance in the working stock, which now causes blockage. Initiatives are also being taken within the judiciary itself to achieve socially effective justice, not only by cutting through legal knots, but by trying to really solve people's problems. Think of the neighborhood judge, the successful court judge in the North of the Netherlands, the debtor judge, the integrated approach to domestic violence in Rotterdam and other initiatives. Mr. Chairman. My group is extremely interested in the Minister's view. Does he share the need for innovation? In the view of the Minister, is a distinction between first and second-line provision, as we know it in health care, a good development? And is he going to direct this process? The Minister recently announced that he would launch experiments with the District Court after the summer. At the moment, the internet consultation is already under way on an experimental law. That is good news, but the Minister's intention raises a number of questions for my group. What goals does the Minister intend to achieve? When did the experiments succeed in his eyes? How does the Minister assess the initiatives I have mentioned by Mr Lennaerts and Mr Recourt? It became clear at the expert meeting that, in view of its precarious financial situation, the case law has no money to pay for these innovations, which the Minister also wanted. How will the Minister finance and support these experiments? Mr. Chairman. It has often been mentioned that there are concerns within and outside this Chamber about the high registry fees. Those who can pay for that can go to court, for citizens who are not broad, that is much harder and sometimes even impossible. Examination by the WODC and the Court of Justice, among others, has shown that the high registry rights do not lead to people making the way to justice. Conversely, the success of the court of arbitration shows that it is possible not to settle disputes at a low rate of €40 at a low rate. In an interview in the NRC, the Minister indicated that he was not convinced that higher registry fees were too high a threshold for people. In the same interview he indicated that it must be clear to people that few things in life are free, not even the judge. These statements by the Minister have surprised my group, to put it mildly. Can he indicate on the basis of what investigation he arrives at these statements? Can he also explain why the Registry fees should be higher than the actual costs? Is he prepared to investigate for himself the relationship between the level of registry rights and access to justice? Mr. Chairman. In the debate held on 20 February on the inclusion of a provision in the Constitution on the right to a fair trial, my group colleague Mr Sini asked whether the Minister shares the concerns of the PvdA Group that the cuts in subsidised legal aid put both access to the law and the remuneration of lawyers under pressure. And if that is not the case, whether the Minister is prepared to investigate to what extent low-income people are unable to go to court. Minister Ollongren promised to direct these questions to her colleague Dekker. I assume that this has happened and I would like to hear the answers from this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u77	For a moment, I thought Mrs. Vlietstra was ready. I thought I'd hold my question until the end. But she's not quite done yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u78	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u79	I'm sorry about that. Let me come back to the canton of Winschoten, which closed in 2013. That was one of the years Rutte II was in power. That was the cabinet supported by the Labour Party. It is good that you criticize this, but it is the policy of your own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u80	The decision on the phasing-out of canton courts has already been taken much earlier than in 2013. I honestly don't remember which cabinet that was under, but that was at the beginning of this century, if I remember correctly. I wanted to report the consequences for access to justice. It is not only financial reasons that contribute to this, but also physical distance from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u81	I notice that that concern was shared in this Chamber. I think Mr. Lennaerts has made himself very popular in this house. I think we all share that development. Of course, the cabinet could have stepped on the brakes when it was judged and determined. Your cabinet, Rutte II, came to power years before that and could have said: we will stop decentralisation. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u82	I take note of this remark. I'm going to the last part of my story, about the funded legal aid. The question about the level of remuneration for the social lawyer was answered by the Van der Meer Committee. It comes to the conclusion that the fee is below par and that at least EUR 127 million is needed in order to guarantee a reasonable income for lawyers who are dependent on their income on the legal aid they have financed, and I would like to add that I would like to keep it for the social lawyer. At the expert meeting, we heard that the social lawyer is running out and that offices are falling down because they are not making it financially. Two weeks ago, the Dutch Association of Social Lawyers suspended consultations with the Minister because she no longer trusts the outcome of the talks, now that the Minister maintains his view that there is no money. "The system collapses, increasingly passionate lawyers stop providing funded legal aid," said the USAN in its press release. That sounds extremely serious. Needs are high. Does the Minister agree with us? When will he finally come up with his vision of subsidised legal aid and its financing? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. My group is concerned about the state of justice and its implications for access to justice. For people with less capacity, but also for SMEs andzzp'ers, justice is often too expensive, too complicated and too far away and innovation is still insufficient. We look forward to the Minister's vision and response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I can give Mrs Bikker the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The State is bound, the King is bound by the law. The roots of the rule of law go far beyond the creation of our Constitution. Think of the Old Testament prophets, who with their incessant sermons on justice when there was injustice and hypocrisy, were the permanent inconvenience to the ruling kings. Or think of over eight centuries ago. A meadow near the famous Windsor; just in the news lately. Eight centuries ago the Magna Carta was established there, with freedoms, with a stand-alone position for the church and for justice. Or closer to home: the Act of Abandonment of 1581. A nuclear moment in our history. In it, the king's power is compared to that of a shepherd. She stretches as far as the herd benefits, but should never degenerate into tyranny. Today we are having a debate on the state of the rule of law, in the blessed circumstance that we live in a free and safe country. The basic principles of our rule of law have good papers. They root deep and are sometimes heavily fought. It is good to occasionally think about what a precious legacy our country has with it and to make a modest contribution today, if possible, to continue that line. In an international perspective, the Netherlands is a privileged country, but that is no reason to sit down complacently in the benches, or to limit the development of the rule of law only to the focal points of history. Maintaining and never underestimating the value of the rule of law is crucial. There's some late maintenance on parts. There are social and technological developments to which we must relate. I therefore see this debate mainly as an opportunity to look at the maintenance that is needed and the developments that are taking place. I look forward very much to the vision of our two leaders at the Ministry of Justice and Security. First of all, my group appreciates the fact that since the previous debate, justice has once again taken precedence in the naming of the Ministry. She is the carrier of safety, and never the other way around. In recent years, Europe has been confronted with shocking terrorist attacks, with young people who radicalised and were attracted to the lure of jihadist groups in the Middle East, who are willing to bring brutal chaos into our society. It requires a lot of our politicians and security services to avert this threat. We should be grateful for that. At the same time, this also means a search for new laws and regulations where, on the one hand, the clashes of the protection of individual freedoms with the guarantee of security on the other hand are regularly visible. The anti-terror laws, the extension of the powers of the mayor, the new law on intelligence and security services are laws that bring us to the edges of the rule of law. Yes, the pursuit of security is legitimate and terrible events such as the terrorist attacks in recent years call for a resilient and vigilant government. But no, not all risks can be ruled out or worth any price in giving up freedoms. Yes, the state has to act against violence, against injustice, but no, that does not remove all the threat. If the state wants to take away all the threat, it becomes totalitarian, it is no longer a rule of law we are proud of. Then larger groups come into the picture for potential danger; think of travel data, football supporters, ethnic profiling, there is much to name. The self-reinforced effect is that the government is considered even more responsible for excluding all security risks. For example, Professor Beatrice de Graaf puts the finger on this vulnerability of our security thinking. How does the Minister judge this paradox? Many of the laws adopted in this spectrum contain an evaluation clause. Could it not be useful at any time to carry out a study that looks more closely at what counter-terrorism legislation actually makes a more significant contribution to our country's security and what more proportionate form it will have to take? What is the contribution of effective proportionate instruments, including decentralised ones, to intervene in time so that we do not only advance the weighting between promoting security and protecting freedoms and security, but also do justice to the effects that are actually there and we also get a clear indication of whether there are unintended effects and lessons that we can draw from them? I very much look forward to the Minister's response on this point. In addition to this safety legislation, I also see an increasing tension in monitoring the privacy of Dutch people when it comes to their digital trade and walking. To what extent can a national state, whether or not at EU level, offer a party against tech giants? Have we not thought too much here from the freedom of the market and the individual responsibility of the citizen? Do we have the impact and vulnerabilities of these data giants sharp enough on the retina? How does the Minister ensure that technological developments in this area do not pass by the legislator? Those who read back the debate four years ago will unfortunately have to see that a whole series of issues have not yet lost their relevance. There has been late maintenance and structural solutions have not been found. I refer to access to justice, the effects of digitalisation, the culture of efficiency in justice, which may be too different for the quality of justice, and the increasing workload that is being observed. These are themes which were again mentioned during the expert meeting in preparation for our debate. I would like to take them for a short walk, and I can also agree with some of the questions that colleagues have already asked and may ask later. First of all, access to justice. Everyone must be able to find justice without distinction. Several studies in the past year by, for example, SCP, Ombudsman and WRR have identified the gap between the low-skilled Dutch and the highly educated Dutch. The trust in justice and therefore in the idea that you can find justice when you are wronged is high in the Netherlands. But further study also shows that this is much and much lower among low-educated Dutch. That is a point that deserves real reflection. So I am thinking not only of the financial thresholds, but also of the way in which procedures are implemented. It is, of course, a good thing in this context that the Cabinet will not further increase registry rights. The long-term discussion on the future of the subsidised legal aid will have to come to fruition in the lines of the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the interim report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I am very curious to see what direction the Minister sees within the budgetary framework. Because it is important that a solution is found here. For my group the test will be whether there is an equivalent position for every Dutchman, regardless of the level of education, in obtaining justice, especially when we consider that many procedures run against an always better equipped government that can afford a long-term procedure. When reflecting on access to justice, the question is also whether we learn lessons from people's experiences with justice. I think that the experiments with the district judge, but also the expansion of the possibilities of mediation, can be a contribution. The emergence of commercial justice is, in this light, a matter of concern. Justice is not a product with profit margins. On this point, I would also like to hear the views of the Minister for Legal Protection. Four years ago, the effects of digitalisation were largely assessed positively. In the meantime, the Quality and Innovation Programme (KEI), which saw the modernisation and digitisation of justice, has been launched by the Minister. The Christian Union Group is deeply concerned about these developments. At the same time, we think that the House of Representatives has a role to play in the investigations of exactly how this happened. We may talk about this later in this Chamber, but in the light of the debate we are having today, there are three derivative questions. We see that the Council no longer has any power for justice. What does this mean for the innovative capacity of justice? What effects does that have? Second. The Court of Auditors notes in its 2017 accountability that the work stock in the courts has a negative impact on the progress of the procedures. The developments surrounding KEI make it fear that this will not change for the time being. That would be very damaging, and the Minister will consider it undesirable. Can the Minister promise that he will also inform this Chamber of his intentions to change this? Third. The main question that the beaching of this project presents us is clearly expressed by Tjeenk Willink. He drew attention to the management culture that seems to be leading and asked whether the content of the judicial function should not be restored to leadership. Should we not talk about what society expects of a judge, what is needed for high-quality justice and for accessibility? I would like to ask the Minister what reflection he has in mind at this deeper level. Is he prepared to challenge the case-law on this point and thus leave the judges to speak themselves? During the expert meeting the work pressure and care for quality and maintenance of quality were frequently discussed. Is this not the time to further promote this quality and innovation in a way that is strengthening? Mr. Chairman. Not only in the case law, but also in the case of the prosecutor and the police. There are still signals coming that give cause for concern. The rising work stock at the state's attorney's office, the under-capacity of the police, they're solid examples from the past week. In July 2016, on behalf of several parties in this Chamber, I tabled a motion that specifically saw the presentation of these structural challenges so that in a new cabinet period sufficient resources and clear policy intentions could contribute to the resolution of the problems. But the reports in the past six months make the eyebrows frown if the analysis was sufficient. Or has it become too complicated to talk about risks in view of all the setbacks that the Ministry has already known? I would like to encourage ministers to continue working on a culture in the department that allows for timely reporting of setbacks. The choice was made to leave the Ministry large in size, but to improve manageability with two directors. I very much hope that the coming years will be convincing in that. There is still much work to be done on this issue. The coalition agreement has increased the financial scope, but it is now also important to have and maintain the challenges and to fight them firmly. What priorities do these ministers set? What do they themselves see as the greatest challenges? Mr. Chairman. I realize I haven't signed up for one minute. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. A debate on the state of the rule of law determines the freedom, security and the reliable government we have. At the same time, this time presents us with major challenges. I mentioned the tension between security and freedom. Other developments can also be identified: globalisation, the influence of technology and social media companies and the emergence of social media, including forms of a contemporary shrapnel-oriented............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I know that other colleagues will say more on this point and look forward with interest to their comments on this point, but these are developments that we cannot ignore if we want to maintain our rule of law for the future as well. Mr. Chairman. I began my contribution with a reference to the ancient customs and moments the King once bound to law. They had an important power of expression. They indicated that the king's power is limited, in size and in time, and also a gift. They are the roots of our democratic rule of law, for which we are grateful. Our Constitution, with its new general provision, is an economical expression of this. The state of the rule of law will only remain a vital state if we initiate new generations into that value. What ambition does the cabinet have in that regard? I know there's a regiment who once did a lot on Education. Well, youth has the future. There's a chance here. My group sincerely wishes the ministers wisdom and blessing in serving our rule of law. And, of course, we look forward to the vision they are about to present. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I'm looking at the clock. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
