ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the Trade Secrets Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	A very warm welcome to the Minister and to his officials, who I do not see but who are undoubtedly there. We have five speakers today, with Mr Alkaya of the SP as the first speaker. You have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are discussing a proposal for a new law implementing a European directive which lays down rules on the protection of trade secrets. Healthy companies invest in building unique knowledge and skills, to innovate and remain competitive. This often also ensures the development of the employees, who in turn make the company great. But society also benefits from better functioning companies and better products and services. So we all benefit from companies investing in innovation, research and innovation. Of course, it makes sense for companies to want to protect valuable knowledge and skills. By laying this down more legally, we ensure that it also remains interesting to invest in people and in building unique knowledge and skills within companies. Nevertheless, I felt it necessary to discuss this bill together in this Chamber today and not to deal with it as a hammer piece, for the following reason. Thus, while companies have legitimate reasons to protect unique knowledge, skills and information that they have built by investing from the outside world, there are still issues within companies that benefit society from the fact that these things come out. Think of illegal activities, products or services that could endanger public health, human rights violations or damage to the environment. It is precisely in these matters that we are in the best interest of them to come out. Unfortunately, we are often faced with abuses in companies, which are often either brought out by employees who are confronted with these abuses internally, or by investigative journalists. This law should not unintentionally set unnecessary thresholds for whistleblowers and journalists acting in the interests of our society by bringing out such abuses. Unfortunately, this is the case in the current legal text. The definition of a trade secret is quite broad in this current legal text. In summary, all information that is not yet publicly available is valuable to the company and must also remain secret and can be regarded as business secret. I get that broad definition on the one hand. Because not all forms of unique knowledge and skills that companies build can be captured in patents or something like that. For example, the explanatory memorandum refers to technological knowledge, such as manufacturing methods and recipes, but also to other data, such as customer and supplier information, business plans, research reports or company strategies. These things, too, you ideally want to protect against, for example, economic espionage. I get that. At the same time, with such a broad wording, without additional protection for whistleblowers and investigative journalists, we run the risk of failing companies even less quickly than is the case today. So we all benefit less from that. Fear of long trials and high claims may deter employees from bringing this kind of abuse to light. In such a lawsuit, such a large company is often stronger than an individual employee, who is also dependent on the same company for his income. This crooked relationship just scares off. I can imagine anything. Then I must quickly think of a statement by Johan de Witt, who said: what one can obtain through the shining of the sword, is not necessary by searching for the beating with the sword. That is the kind of deterrent effect of the new law that we simply need to adapt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	Before you proceed, Mrs Van den Berg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	At the beginning, Mr. Alkaya said that companies can grow through innovation and new things. Now I hear him say that a large company has a much better position than the employee, whereas this law is intended to protect SMEs. I would like to hear a reflection from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Also in the case of an SME's, I can imagine that if you are an employee of an SME's, you would prefer not to be in a court of law against that SME's. That is of course less the case with a large company because you often have to deal with an army of lawyers and you do not want to deal with years of trial and high claims. However, an employee of an SME would prefer not to face his own employer in a court of law. I can very well imagine that this scares off, even if it is not a large but a small business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	An SME can also be a company with three people employed. The starting point of a trial is that I think it is a really wrong assumption. Again, for us, this is precisely the protection for small SMEs. I think Mr. Alkaya has some other perceptions of that and I would like to give that to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	We have plenty of time to discuss it today. In my opinion, the current legal text under Article 4 provides that the standard practice of cases is actually the course of justice, that the way whistleblowers and investigative journalists are excluded from such cases should be automatically assessed by the courts. I would like to make such a course of justice less standard practice. I shall come back to that in my further text. So we have to avoid such a lawsuit as much as possible. Even though it is sometimes unavoidable, it can have a deterrent effect. If we can do that by amending the legal text, then we must avoid it as much as possible. I have therefore tabled three amendments to give extra protection to journalists and employees so that abuses in companies can be brought to light. That concerns first of all the amendment on item No. 11 that makes the abstract definition of action in the general interest a little more concrete, namely by referring to the House for Whistleblowers. Whistleblowers and investigative journalists have been able to contact the House for Whistleblowers for advice and protection for a year, which came on the initiative of the SP. The relevant law defines that the public interest is at least at stake in the event of, for example, breach of a legal requirement, danger to public health, danger to the safety of persons, danger to damage to the environment or danger to the proper functioning of public policy, service or undertaking as a result of improper conduct or omission. It would be a good thing for employees to assume that if they find one of these abuses, they will receive additional protection. I have two further amendments to further enhance the protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	I think that the amendment to item No. 11 very sympathetic, but I would like some further explanation as to why it says "as referred to in Article 1 (d) (2) of the Whistleblowers' Act." Are there other situations similar to that Wet Huis for whistleblowers that you want to bring under that general interest? Could you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Sure. Firstly, I think it is right for staff to assume that if these matters are on the agenda, they can at least appeal to them. But other cases are also conceivable, for example human rights violations. This has more to do with international companies, multinational companies, which would not be covered by this, but there are also very other cases that could be envisaged where workers should be able to assume that if they do not have a fair level of protection, they will be given extra protection. If we have already agreed on an additional definition that is at least a breach of social interest, I think it is right that they should at least be able to assume it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Veldman also has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	I have listened carefully to Mr Alkaya and I would like to look at the portrait of this amendment. Now, let me get this straight, he wants to record an additional reference to the Whistleblowers' Wet House. Then I wonder what exactly is the point and the necessity of this, as there are a number of rules in this law. If anyone thinks there's an error and feels like a whistleblower, they can report to the House for whistleblowers. What does this add specifically, other than that we may encounter each other very often if we include in every law a reference to the Wet House for whistleblowers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	The law on whistleblowers of course regulates that a whistleblower is entitled to advice and investigation. For this, you can go to the House for Whistleblowers. It's arranged in the Wet Huis for whistleblowers. This law also states that the judge may reject a case if one acts in the public interest. And that's pretty abstractly defined. If we remain in this abstract definition without referring to a definition that we already have in another case, namely the House for Whistleblowers, we run the risk of being able to look at the courts for definition issues as well. It seems to me that it is good for workers to assume that they enjoy extra protection here, even if they bring out business secrets, for the matters for which they can go to the House for whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	That means you see it as temporary. At the moment when the judge defines something as a public interest, you cannot simultaneously as a whistleblower to the House for Whistleblowers. I'm not getting very clear how you see it: either instantaneously or at the same time. Where exactly do you see the bottleneck?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	The current definition in the law for whistleblowers is applicable to when someone can contact the House for Whistleblowers. It can therefore not be applied when someone brings out a trade secret. At least, they could still go to the House for Whistleblowers, but that would not automatically be excluded for a lawsuit because that person would have brought out a business secret. I would therefore like, because of the same definition issue, where someone can count on him to go to the House for Whistleblowers, that someone on the same matters is also equally excluded from a trial, and therefore cannot go to court in the same case with his or her own employer to prove that it was in the public interest. For we have a definition issue and, in my view, by referring to that existing law, we are only providing clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And then there are the two amendments to give substance to what this additional protection will be. The first amendment, in part No. 7, regulates that journalists and whistleblowers are no longer regarded as infringers according to the definition of this law and that in an unexpected course of justice, i.e. if a company nevertheless goes to court, the company must prove that the employee who went out and claimed to be a whistleblower, thus acting in the public interest, did not do so but acted in a personal interest. The burden of proof is thus reversed. This makes a court case less plausible and makes a company less likely to go to court, which seems almost a standard situation in the current legal text. The following amendment provides that misconduct, errors or illegal activities cannot be classified as business secrets under this law at all. I think this amendment speaks for itself. I do not believe that this directive is intended to give extra protection to illegal business activities. I wonder what the Minister thinks of these three amendments. Finally, a question on another subject. There are still many employees who are faced with competitive clauses from the company they work for. Such terms are also based on the fear that unique knowledge and skill will reach the competitor. On the other hand, this can be a significant obstacle for workers seeking another job. What is the Minister's view of the trade unions' criticism of the terms of competition and does the Minister share the view that the terms of competition in which the definition of "business secrecy" goes beyond what is stated in this law should be annulled? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD. You have ten minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. Every company, almost every company, does have sensitive information that cannot be disclosed, business secrets. And those secrets, of course, allow competitors to take advantage of them. So entrepreneurs are like the death that these kinds of secrets end up on the streets. Unfortunately, we have to note that, for example, digital espionage with an economic motive is growing ever more. And so it is important that companies, if they are dealing with theft of business secrets, may fall back on proper legal protection. However, secret technical know-how and strategic or commercial business information cannot always be protected by a patent, a design right or, for example, copyright. The Netherlands does not yet have any explicit legislation on the protection of trade secrets. Trade secrets are relatively weak throughout the European Union and it is therefore good that an EU directive has been drawn up and that it is now being pursued in Dutch legislation. Mr. Chairman. This law is a good step in better protecting secret information from companies. The Directive removes fundamental differences between EU countries in the protection of trade secrets, as specific legislation to protect trade secrets will soon be required throughout Europe. The VVD strongly supports the idea of further regulation in which research and development for new products, processes, services and know-how in which business secrets are applied are better protected. Mr. Chairman. On a number of points, I would like to tighten up the law a little bit more, not so much on the scope of the law, but on the course of law when a case is served on the basis of this law. The judgment in a court case often involves a court order for costs. The losing party must pay the winning party an amount for the costs incurred by the winning party. This is mainly about attorney fees but of course may also include a number of other costs. There are now roughly two types of court order. The so-called liquidation rate, a very low amount, or the IPR rate, the IPR rate, where there is a higher amount. The present legislative proposal provides for the lower winding-up rate to apply to business secrets lawsuits. That's what the VVD likes to see differently. It is a little unfair that if your business secrets are violated and you start a lawsuit and you then win that case, you still have a large part of the costs. If you're gonna win the case, you're gonna have to get the court fees, too. Does the Minister agree with me in principle? Mr. Chairman. I am aware, of course, that full reimbursement of costs entails the risk that access to justice can be more difficult. You're less likely to start a trial if you're at risk of losing, and you're still at high trial costs. So this actually calls for customization. And the nice thing is that such a practice has already developed in intellectual property. In a way, I would like to join in that. I therefore propose an amendment to the law so that the losing party can be judged more than at the liquidation rate in the costs incurred by the winning party. The difference I propose with regard to intellectual property is that it is not mandatory. I propose that it be left to the court to order the unsuccessful party to pay reasonable and proportionate costs. Depending on the circumstances, this allows the court to offer tailor-made work on a case-by-case basis. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he agrees with this amendment to the law. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a second point. The bill regulates the protection of business secrets in a court of law. This protection applies only to a lawsuit specifically dealing with trade secrets. For example, a company is suing another company for stealing a business secret. In these situations, the court will decide that the business secrets will not be disclosed during the trial; otherwise, of course, the information will still be on the street. They are therefore protected during the legal proceedings. But, of course, there are also cases in which the primary proceedings are not about a trade secret but about trade secrets. In those cases, you do not want trade secrets to be visible to all parties during the public hearing. That is why I propose in an amendment that the judge may say in those cases that not everyone but only a limited number of people, for example only lawyers, can see the trade secret. Does the Minister agree with me that with this amendment we are just improving the protection of trade secrets? Mr President, one final point: the attachment of evidence. The existing enforcement directive on intellectual property rights, such as patents, trademarks and copyrights, is not fully incorporated into the EU Trade Secrets Directive. Within the European Union, we did not agree on the level of enforcement between, for convenience, the northern and southern Member States. However, Member States are free to include this in their national legislation. For IPR rights, such a special regime has been established, making it possible to seize evidence. For the purpose of maintaining trade secrets, the evidence is actually even more important, because it is not a tangible product. Fortunately, there can be evidence in the Netherlands by way of a detour as a result of case law. But while we are dealing with this law, it would of course be nice to regulate it directly. The Minister has chosen not to introduce this directly into the law. As I understand it, he is not doing so because we are working on a broader revision of the evidence law. Is that right? Is a wide-ranging review of the right of evidence currently under way and, if so, when can the Court expect the new legislation on this matter? Is that the burden of proof? Legally, rather than by case law, in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	I await the amendments and the opinion of the govern ment, but I have a more general question. Mr Veldman stressed the importance of the directive and the need to improve the protection of trade secrets. Work is underway at European level on a proposal to introduce screening or at least harmonise screenings when it comes to taking over companies, for example by Chinese state-owned companies, including from the point of view of protecting business secrets or certain technological knowledge. How do these things relate to each other at the VVD? Isn't it important to protect companies at that point too and not just by this route?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u22	That is actually a question I expected from Mr Van der Lee tonight. Tonight, in this Chamber, we will talk about protecting companies from takeovers. I shall return to what we are talking about this morning, namely Dutch legislation based on an EU directive to ensure that trade secrets are better protected. We want a better legal guarantee for that, so that companies that feel their business secrets have been stolen have a legal basis that they can fall back on. It is very good that we are creating a level playing field in Europe. We are now converting the EU directive into national legislation for this purpose. Of course, it makes little sense to regulate it very well in the Netherlands when we see that it is not regulated in other European countries or badly. There's a lot of cross-border traffic. Companies are not always only trading in the Netherlands. This applies to the protection of companies against takeovers, perhaps to a certain extent. That is why European thought is being given to which sectors are of vital importance and to whether we can work together on this. We're not ready yet. It's in college. I think it's wise to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u23	I think I'm gonna go through with this tonight. Many Member States have taken a number of steps in this direction and are further ahead than the Netherlands. The Netherlands seems to be on the brakes. I think it would be a good idea to ensure a level playing field throughout Europe on this issue too, but we will continue to do so tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u24	That sounds like a great challenge to me. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. Mr van der Lee van GroenLinks has the floor. He has eight minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also sees the importance of a good framework on business secrets. It is good that, by implementing this European directive, there will be more harmonisation in this area. It is important that, in addition to the interests of companies, which are rightly stressed, the interests of employees and the general interest are represented. So we simply need to find a good balance. In my opinion, the proposal before us does not take sufficient account of the right of workers to change jobs. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants workers' mobility to be reduced as little as possible by this bill. A competitive clause prohibits workers from taking up work elsewhere, often for a few years after the end of their employment. This is in principle an obstacle to the mobility of workers. The trade unions therefore propose to prohibit the competitive clause when the relationship clause and the confidentiality clause are regulated. Mr Alkaya pointed that out as well. This may be linked to the definition of a trade secret in the present legislative proposal. In this way, business secrets are just kept secret, but employees are freer to work wherever they want. That seems to be a good idea for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, and I'm sure that's true for all the groups in the Chamber; but that's what we're waiting for. Employers must be adequately protected against breach of trade secrets, but workers should not be affected. It is therefore a good solution to make the non-competition clause impossible while ensuring that trade secrets are sufficiently protected. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that. Whatever needs to be regulated are the possibilities to raise wrongdoings. Mr Alkaya also spoke about this in detail. There are a number of exceptions in the law that allow whistleblowers or journalists, for example, to raise wrongdoings. However, the real impact of this law remains unclear in some respects. What abuses, for example, should be addressed? Suppose a person wants to come out over an organizational sphere where one does not correct one another if mistakes are made. In some sectors this may have major, even fatal consequences. Does this law now give sufficient freedom to come out of this without anyone coming out of it having to appear in court and fear for his job or any other sanctions? Can a person who is not an employee of an organisation come forward with the same point of view, or can that lead to legal proceedings? Another possible weakness is that there may be a huge amount of evidence to be gathered before a failure can be made public. According to this law, almost everything is a business secret and an organisation can sue a person when that person discloses business information, which can have significant negative consequences for that person. My group is concerned that this might deter whistleblowers. To give an example, let's say that an employee thinks that there may be cartels in the company where he works. This information now falls under the heading of trade secret, because one of these information is not generally known, two of them have commercial value because it is secret, and three the company will have taken measures to keep this information a secret. At the same time, of course, we also want to prevent the formation of cartels and we have even set up a whole supervisory body to monitor them. But are you allowed to take that outside, or are you risking an unsolicited corridor to the judge? Is it reasonable now to expect a reporter to prove that there is illegal activity and that these evidence is always as hard as I just illustrated in this example? How can the employee determine this with certainty? How can he prove it? What is the general interest in this? In general, the Competition Authority will first have to establish that there is an illegal activity. After all, the employee is not the judge. He can raise it, but he doesn't have the conclusive evidence. In the meantime, does the employee run the risk of being brought to justice by his boss? Can the Minister also comment on this specific example? Mr. Chairman. I still have great concerns about what this law does for the rights of workers and whistleblowers. I hope the Minister can take that road. I am also very interested in the Minister's response to Mr Alkaya's amendments. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I call Mr Paternotte of D66. You have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr. Chairman. Otto von Bismarck once said: "There are two things in the world that you absolutely do not want to know how they are made. Those are sausages, and those are laws." The Trade Secrets Protection Act is a textbook example of this. That is not a reproach to the Minister or to the legal lawyers of EZK, because they have done a very good job. But that is good, because it was a struggle in the Brussels factory to get the European Commission's original mess into a decent directive. In fact, not for the first time, the Commission was completely blind to the interests of large companies. It was described in detail in a report by researchers from Corporate Europe Observatory. The authors of the Commission proposal had almost daily contact with business lobbyists and lawyers, none of whom represented the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises or, for example, through an NGO, the interests of whistleblowers or investigative journalists. The lobbyists helped the Commission to draw up the legislative texts and the Commission in turn helped lobbyists with the strategy to lobby and convince the European Council and the European Parliament. And when it comes to laws, it's true: whoever writes stays. Liberals, Greens and Social Democrats intervened in the European Parliament. That was a very tough fight, but that means that there is now a completely different directive and a law that strikes the balance between protecting business secrets and protecting workers, whistleblowers and journalists. This background makes sense that several parties in this Chamber, and we too, look very critically at the law before us. As far as we are concerned, the balance between the interests of the companies on the one hand and the whistleblowers and journalists on the other is not quite there yet. I'll get back to you on that. The good thing about this law is clear, because Europe-wide, large companies, SMEs, start-ups and non-commercial research institutions are now better protected against corporate espionage and illegal use of business secrets. Definitely start-ups and non-profit research institutions depend heavily on business secrets. The use of intellectual property rights is expensive and these parties often lack the money and resources to manage and protect them. This law also gives these companies the opportunity to take advantage of their invention and research. An innovative start-up which, for example, has developed a medical application does not require the introduction of this law to apply for an expensive patent or to be alert to the management of intellectual property rights. Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is important that the implementation of this Directive and this law does not affect the free movement of workers. Specific knowledge and skills acquired by an employee during work can of course be a strategic asset for a particular company, but this does not necessarily make them a business secret. Article 1 also provides for this. It must be absolutely clear that there is a trade secret. The holder of that information must be able to demonstrate that he has taken steps to keep that information confidential. This brings me to the first important point, because this law does not in itself protect trade secrets better. After all, a company has to meet the conditions itself and take its own measures. That should also be clear on the retina. After all, small entrepreneurs could now think that there is no added value for a confidentiality clause because this law is in force. But do they know of the three conditions laid down in Article 1, which really make a trade secret a business secret? Can the Minister indicate how he intends to ensure that these smaller companies, too, will get this right on the retina? This concerns the following question about legal status, because there is also a dispute about the interpretation of a confidentiality clause and there is also much controversy in practice. Look at the large number of civil proceedings on confidentiality clauses. Because, yes, if all parties agree on a confidentiality clause in the contract of employment, you may assign a certain value to it, but legally that can very often rattle. 'Cause what's a confidentiality statement? How long is it gonna last? What are the consequences of violating it? What's it supposed to say? There is no uniformity for that now. If you google, you will encounter dozens of different example formats for drawing up a confidentiality statement. As a company and an employee, you run the risk of having a discussion about the third condition: has the employer taken sufficient measures to make it clear that it is a business secret? And to what extent is the employee bound by any part of that confidentiality statement? My question to the Minister is therefore whether, in evaluating this law, he can look specifically at the extent to which these confidentiality clauses are disputed. Is he prepared to examine, if this is often the case, whether a specific further regulation can provide clarification here? It might be good to consider the most commonly used example formats that go around the Internet and are used by smaller companies on their usefulness, so that we know whether current practice and this new law are compatible. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the final point, namely the sharing of information on business secrets. The draft law does not contain much on the attachment of evidence. This protects whistleblowers, on the one hand, who do not have to turn in all their material directly on a company's claim. Of course, it also protects companies from disclosure of information that should simply be transparent and accessible. We are thinking of diesel gate, in which research was made impossible by car manufacturers who called for the protection of their business secrets. Today we have the European rapporteur on diesel gate, Gerben-Jan Gerbrandy, here in the House of Representatives. We can also think of the case of PwC against the whistleblower that brought the LuxLeaks to light. We therefore need to ensure that businesses are no longer able to hide behind too wide a protection of the law. I therefore appeal to the Minister to monitor this with his European colleagues and the European Commission. Finally, I would like to return to the previous remark in my speech on the protection of whistleblowers and, specifically, Article 4, which Mr Alkaya has already talked about in detail. Like Mr Alkaya, we also see room for improvement. We welcome the inclusion of whistleblowers in the text, but it is a general exception which, as far as we are concerned, still contains too much legal vagueness about the protection in that exception. After all, the current text leaves open the possibility for companies to prosecute whistleblowers and journalists if they do not act on the grounds of protecting the public interest. A further definition of the general interest is missing from the legislative proposal. That raises questions and will continue to raise questions. The judge will have to give an interpretation at some point, but as far as we are concerned, it is good to follow Mr Alkaya's amendment. In doing so, we ensure that there is a clear reference to the House for Whistleblowers, which includes how we see the social role of whistleblowers. We shall therefore support that amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you. Finally, Mrs van den Berg of the CDA has the floor. You have six minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the Trade Secrets Protection Act. Protection of business secrets offers protection in an easily accessible way because no application and registration is required. The CDA Group agrees with the proposal because, as I pointed out in the interruption, business secrets are particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, for start-ups, for innovative start-ups and for the services sector, because the latter is less patented. We also welcome the fact that the legislative proposal defines business secrecy and makes business secrets more uniform, so that start-ups, SMEs and service sectors are given greater legal certainty as to when and how to deal with infringements, and so that they enjoy the same level of protection throughout the European Union. Their innovation focuses more on matters that are not eligible for patenting. Moreover, they do not always have sufficient resources to obtain and manage a portfolio of patents and other intellectual property rights, to monitor the market for possible infringements and then to start legal proceedings to combat those infringements. The CDA Group thanks the Minister for answering the written questions we have put. We still have a few questions about the balance in the law between the interests of companies and organisations, and the interests of employees, whistleblowers and journalists. Can the Minister, in connection with the joint letter from the Dutch trade unions, go into the question of why the bill does not go too far in order to protect the interests of companies and organisations? In what way does the bill ensure that there is too strict a protection regime, which could be abused again? Would the Minister like to go into the aspect of whistleblowers and journalists again? Is it true that the bill does not apply in case someone reveals a business secret in order to expose misconduct, errors or illegal activities for the benefit of the public interest? Is it true that a miscarriage doesn't have to be a crime before you're named a whistleblower? We have also understood that definitions have not been chosen whereby whistleblowers and journalists acting in the public interest are explicitly excluded from the definition of infringer. This has been chosen with a view to proper implementation and also by aligning as closely as possible with the Directive. But can the Minister explain again why this choice has been made and whether this choice can also cause problems? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u32	One more thing I wanted to report. I will propose to my group that it support at least the amendments tabled by the VVD. I am referring in particular to the amendment that the party that raised it but was wrong could also be condemned for the costs of the proceedings. We think it is very important that the judge can also make tailor-made choices in this respect. That was an important consideration for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the minister. Five minutes I'm suspending.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u34	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Chairman. These are trade secrets, but I sent it in as a one-to-one implementation of a European directive. I do not know whether we should do this very comprehensively. The concerns are recognizable, but I wanted to try a different way. In fact, the main concerns relate to the amendments that have been tabled. It is up to me to comment on those amendments, and I actually wanted to do so along that road by passing through the amendments. There are still a number of questions that are separate from the amendments, which will then be discussed. Many of the concerns have to do with the balance. That balance must be there, of course. If we are serious about protecting trade secrets, it is also about that interest. However, we can all imagine situations where something formally defined is a trade secret, but it should not be kept secret, because there is clearly an error. It must be possible for people to report this failure. That is what much of the discussion is about, as is the three amendments tabled by Mr Alkaya. I would like to begin with the amendment to item No. 11. It proposes an addition to the legal text. The term "general interest" is extended to include an example, namely the reference to the Whistleblowers' House Act. That is sympathetic, because it may create more certainty for the whistleblower, but on the other hand it is also restrictive. There are more general interests, and it is given to whistleblowers to come out about more things than just what has been reported in the House of Whistleblowers. For example, about consumer interests, public order; there are many more things. Frankly, I do not think it is entirely right to refer to a subset of these interests in a legal text as a result of a discussion or even articles in the newspaper, and not the rest. For that would suggest that the explanation should be interpreted more narrowly, whereas it explicitly concerns not only the grounds mentioned in the House of Whistleblowers Act, but also other grounds. To be honest, I think that, with appreciation for the intentions of providing certainty, this is more likely to restrict potential whistleblowers. I would also like to advise against this. The formal word is "dissuade' because I consider this not only superfluous but also, in a sense, misleading in the sense of a restriction. I wouldn't want to get caught up in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u36	I'm having a bit of a problem with this. I can fully follow the reasoning and I think we agree with each other: I would not propose a restrictive amendment either. However, it is clear that I want to include the words 'among other things', so that there are examples, as the Minister also points out, so that there is more certainty in the case of abuses, as they already stand in the existing law, that this would at least lead to the interpretation that this would affect the general interest, which would lead to better protection. In my view, these two words 'among other things' are very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u37	I think, on the contrary, that if you would like to mention examples that I do not advocate, you should not start with the examples where it is most clear, because they are already in the House of Whistleblowers Act. That suggests that's the domain, too. And if we don't mention another one, we're implicitly making the whistleblower think that's the end of it. I wouldn't want to do that. It is clear, precisely in view of the fact that there is a Wet House for whistleblowers, that they are covered. I would like to suggest as little as possible that that is the end of it. So I think it is not only superfluous but somewhat misleading. Later on, the scholars can start to think that we actually intend to limit it to that, because we could not mention any other, but explicitly mention this example in the law. So I share Mr Alkaya's intentions and presumably Mr Paternotte's intentions, but here I do not think it creates any additional clarity or even works somewhat misleadingly. That's why I think this should be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u38	A brief follow-up question. The Minister says that it is clear that the provisions currently contained in the House of Whistleblowers Act would also apply here. But is that actually legal? Are those provisions contained in another law also automatically legally valid for a lawsuit that could be brought later under this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u39	The word "automatic" is not entirely appropriate for such general terms. Something may have to do with something called within the framework of the House for Whistleblowers, but nevertheless be judged differently by the judge. After all, they are not binary concepts. Anyone who reveals a business secret will of course benefit from being able to call himself a whistleblower. It is ultimately up to the judge to determine the reasonableness of that. So the word "automatic" is not the issue anyway. I will also explain to you in the next two amendments why I do not think that the word 'automatic' is at issue. However, it is clear that the areas mentioned in relation to the House for Whistleblowers are legally covered and that these are therefore grounds. But there are more and I didn't want to be restrictive. It is precisely because of the fact that Mr Alkaya and I have the same intentions here that I can also imagine that we do not give the impression that we have a difference of opinion. I would even like him to consider withdrawing this amendment in this form and assuming that it is not only these but also other grounds that are valid for it. Because we do not want to hinder whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr Paternotte on this amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u41	In my view, the last concern expressed by the Minister relates to the following two amendments tabled by Mr Alkaya. It's about whether you're a whistleblower unless you're not, or if you're stealing business secrets unless you can explain you're a whistleblower. But my question is about whether it is okay to mention the House for Whistleblowers as an example. The concern of many whistleblowers and journalists is that, of course, they really don't know what the general interest is about. In doing so, it gives them certainty that it refers in any case to, for example, matters included in the arrangements for the House for Whistleblowers. But it is not "only"; it is "among others," but not "only." My question to the Minister is therefore how Mr Alkaya's amendment is preventing a broader definition of the general interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u42	The fact that it doesn't technically stand in the way is illustrated by the word "like." But I don't think it's very pure to call a "like" in a law anyway, and then you come up with a subset of examples, because with that you suggest that the rest doesn't apply. General interest seems to be reduced here rather. That's a suggestion I don't want to wake up. It does not therefore have any legal added value. In strictly technical and legal terms, it is not obstructive, but it certainly has no added value in strictly technical and legal terms. And I don't think it's gonna help in communication. That's my opinion of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u43	Since this debate is also part of the legal history, I think it is right to say that it should not work exclusively in our view, in the sense that the general interest cannot be interpreted more broadly than the very small subset of examples contained in the reference to Mr Alkaya's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u44	In view of the fact that this debate is part of the history of law, it seems to me that it is no longer necessary to mention these examples in the law, since they are now also laid down in the legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u45	Before you go any further, your opinion on the Amendment No. 11 is "dissuade"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u46	That's "dissuade." In view of the unity of intentions, I can imagine that Mr Alkaya is even withdrawing this, but I leave it entirely to him. I'm a little creatively advising right now. That's what he's really about; he knows that too. Then we come to the amendments to the Nos. 7 and 12. They're a bit alike. Both try a priori to allow the whistleblower to sound like a whistleblower, without a legal test. One amendment does this by focusing on the whistleblower's party, and the other by focusing on the definition of "business secrets." There are cases where you... No, I have to rephrase. Here, however, it is necessary for the balance sheet that the judge can still look at that. Because if you exclude someone a priori and can't take a test on them anymore, then everyone will be a whistleblower. That actually shakes up the whole bill. If I want to run off with a business secret, making up that I'm a whistleblower because of this or that, I'll be safe right after that. That's what really knocks it down. The same applies to both proposals. That can't really be the case. We are at the heart of the legislative proposal, but we are also undermining the core of the implementation of this directive if we do this a priori. I think it would be wise for the judge to rule on this if there is any doubt. There must, of course, be sufficient guarantees, including through the concept of 'general interest', so that those who, in fact, bring something out of the public interest can not be prosecuted. But to do that a priori, all sorts of behavior calls for this bill to be exactly devoid of purpose. A question that may be related to that is that of Mr Van der Lee. He says, "Yes, but is a cartel a business secret?" He is funny enough right that this is strictly covered by the definition of a trade secret, but at the same time it is unlawful, and it is quite obvious that revealing a cartel really does not treat the whistleblower with a legal danger. That's totally obvious. Those are the exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u47	I can also fully follow this line of reasoning. At the same time, we must not allow companies to use the corridor to court as a means of pressure to prevent whistleblowers from actually coming forward. So I ask the Minister how he looks at the proposal to reverse the burden of proof. That was actually part of one of my amendments. Then a person who comes forward and brings an error to the surface does not have to justify himself to the courts by proving that he acted in the public interest, but then the company has to prove that it was not in the public interest but in the personal interest. That is therefore a reversal of the burden of proof. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u48	This, of course, leads to the same course of action, but in my view, we do disturb the balance. It is clear that this bill really runs on two legs. One leg is the legal protection of trade secrets that comply with that definition, but the other leg is the exclusion of whistleblowers and journalists from it on grounds that are still subject to judicial review. I wanted to keep it that way. That is also in line with the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u49	A short final question, then: can the Minister imagine that such a course of law with high claims can hinder someone who actually finds wrongdoings?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u50	Legal certainty always has two sides. I think that the bill on whistleblowers, which may have an important role to play in society, has already been mentioned; I do not think that it has come to light in this way in the first instance, but it could have always had two distinct sides. You're sure of your case when you have something completely obvious. A cartel is completely obvious. Nobody's gonna say, "Well, well, well, well, what have you revealed business secrets, say, "We're bottled up and you're just making that public." That is quite obvious, but there are simply cases in which it is not entirely evident and where a judicial test could be considered if one of the parties feels genuinely inadequate. Legal certainty means that things can be presented to a judge in a twilight zone. That's how society works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u51	I would just like to comment on the fact that the Minister stresses the importance of the balance sheet. At the same time, we have known for years that the whistleblower ultimately pays a fairly high price, even if there is evident behaviour that is not legal. So there's a imbalance and it's pretty easy for a company to start legal procedures, so the threshold of wanting to be a whistleblower at all is greatly increased. Doesn't that give a reason to add an extra status to such a person who really appeals to the fact that he is a whistleblower? I simply do not believe that the assumption that people are taking advantage of this quickly, because there is a very high social price on whistleblowering: you build up a reputation, other employers are afraid of you, and everyone knows that. So I don't see the abuse you're suggesting so easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u52	I think it's amazing to say that other employers might not want you if you're a whistleblower for the right reasons. If someone is a justified whistleblower, I would honestly put that person high on the horse and celebrate him. Mr Van der Lee and I both know that perhaps not every employer does, but I do not think it is a good idea to say that whistle-blowing has its drawbacks and that we are therefore going to disrupt the balance on the specific issue of protection of business secrets. I would just say that we have made a law to honour whistleblowers, but at the same time we must try to keep that balance where that is reasonable. That is the case here. Mr Van der Lee's argument at the time led to the House of Whistleblowers Act, but I do not think we should use the same argument here to upset the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u53	The Minister would be right if the law were to be very clear about when there is a breach of the general interest and if it were very clear that you are raising a wrongdoing as a whistleblower. But that is precisely the subject of interpretation and therefore something that is submitted to the court. And so as a whistleblower, you don't know what you're up to. That gives a legitimate motivation to see if we can't protect that position a little bit better. Hence the amendments tabled by Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u54	But if everything in society with the interpretation of every law was always one-on-one and black and white, we would no longer need justice. In mathematics, justice goes without a judicial chain. That's not what the judge's gonna do. That's where the evidence is or isn't there. But here it isn't. We have a society in which cases that are difficult sometimes end up with a judge. That's a big good, too. This means that we should not say that suddenly there is a jurisdiction in which everything is clear a priori, because it will not always be. There are a lot of cases where it's crystal clear. They are also appointed here and they are obvious. The cartel is an example of that. But twilight areas exist in a society. There is no point in pretending that there aren't any in the legal process. Then it is also reasonable that someone should be allowed to express their views on this matter. Well, that's what we'll find in that case. And whether everyone should always agree with the judge in individual cases is another question, but at least you never hear me commenting on what a judge thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u55	It is being pretended that I would like to avoid a whole corridor to the judge, but that is not the case of course. The corridor to the judge can always, only the question is who the threshold is for making that corridor to the judge. In the current legal text it is the standard procedure. Is that how the Minister sees it? Article 4 begins with the words "The judge can make an exception in the event that..." Does the Minister agree with me that in certain cases, in the obvious cases such as cartels, the course to court should not be necessary? If there were cartels at the moment, the employee who brings them out must prove to the court that he acted in the public interest. In this kind of obvious cases, you would like to see the corridor to the court not made at all, because there is indeed a threshold for companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u56	There's no automatic passage to the judge either. Suppose I discovered a cartel in my own company and I step outside. In the first instance, there is no judicial process at all. No one's suing me for anything. I don't have anything to answer for. I'm just bringing out that there's a cartel. Only when the company says "Oh, oh, oh, now you've revealed a business secret and now I'm going to sue you," which would be extremely unwise and illogical, will this article be dealt with. But in the standard situation there is no automatic course of justice at all. Here too, the word 'automatic' is not mentioned. I don't even know if it's happened before that someone reported a cartel in public and was sued for it for a trade secret or whatever. That's not the point. It would also be very strange and unwise of such a company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u57	That's right; that would be very unwise. But the point is, of course, in the step before that, if such a failure is detected. Then the company could threaten with damages claims and a long legal process, where the burden of proof lies with the employee. It must prove that he has acted not in the personal interest but in the general interest. It is precisely that threshold that we want to remove. We want to remove the threshold for the employee to come out in such a situation. And we want to set a threshold for the company to threaten a course of justice, so that these kinds of things can keep coming out. I would like the Minister to at least agree that that threshold should be with the company and not with the employee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u58	It has really been chosen to primarily protect trade secrets and to make that exception, which in practice, in some cases, is probably the same course of action. But I insist that this is balanced and in line with the directive's interpretation. I continue with the suggestion of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u59	Before you proceed, let me make it clear that you have the amendments to the documents. 7 and 12 both betrayed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u60	The amendments to documents Nos. 7 and 12, indeed, I dissuade both. They also seem very difficult to combine. The amendment in part No. 9 belongs to Mr Veldman. He actually wonders whether it should also be possible to have a full court fees. Here again it is a consideration. In cases where it is totally black and white and someone is being brutalized in a really unreasonable way, it is obvious to get a full court fee. This is the case with patents. A cartel is written word to word. A cartel? Sorry, I'm obsessed with the cartels. I mean, of course, "patent." With a patent, everything's fine on paper. If someone walks with it and busts that exact patent, then he knows in advance that who bounces can expect the ball. Then he'll have the full court fees to pay, even if you could otherwise sue your competitor arm. So that makes sense. This is a business secret and it is less black and white. I agree with Mr Veldman that in some cases this would be reasonable. If the trade secret is crystal clear, so that the offender cannot in any way think that this is still allowed, then it is also logical that the cost of the proceedings should be borne by the real offender. But there are also other cases in which it is not so black and white and there really is a truthful, legal question. Then it is less obvious that the compensation will be on one side. I therefore agree that it is up to the judge to make a judgment on this matter where appropriate. The amendment in part No. 9 is intended for this purpose. So I leave that to the Court's judgment. It has to be done explicitly through the courts; nothing automatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u61	The amendment in part No. 9 gets judgment, then, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u62	That's right. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 10. It is Mr Veldman's question as to what should be the case if the primary proceedings do not concern trade secret and trade secret only as evidence in another type of case. Is it possible, then, for the court to determine that this document is only made available in a more limited context, precisely in order to protect trade secrets? That seems reasonable in itself and also in line with the intentions of this law. I shall therefore leave this amendment to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u63	Mr Van der Lee has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u64	It could be a very unrelated lawsuit, for example a criminal case involving someone who worked at that company. Maybe that secret could be a motive in that criminal case. Let me give you an example. If this amendment were to be adopted, would it not be possible to appoint it by appealing to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u65	The decision to spread something in a more limited circle is ultimately up to the judge. The court will have to determine whether it serves a primary interest to know more about business secrecy, or whether there is a secondary interest. Again, it is explicitly not an automatism. Several questions have been asked about terms of competition. That is a field that is extremely much wider than just business secrets. This is a field in which several parties in the polder have been harassing each other for years. In my view, Mr Van der Lee's introduction revealed that the trade union movement in particular is one of the parties there. That's right. I find this not only for that reason, but also because this is a much, much wider field with an infinite number of broader considerations, not at all the right platform to discuss it. This is a field in which the Minister of SZW and the Minister of JenV have been working very closely together for years. It's a legal-rich area. I'm not even gonna try to approach those nuances here in any way. I am simply not prepared to drag this whole area into this. The competitive clause may as well be about the hairdresser so to speak. You're working at a hair salon. I see Mr. Paternotte looking a little surprised at this new professional image and you're leaving and sneaking around with the customers you used to chat while you were cutting your hair. That has nothing to do with this, but it is clearly something that is subject to competition. Since this is a much wider field, I do not think that we really need to put this area down in the context of this discussion. I am not really prepared to do that either, because that is what we are doing in the field, because that is what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u66	The example of the hairdresser raises a question with Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u67	Certainly, although I fear that I will need it less in the future, fortunately for the time being. I have a question about this. Does the Minister at least recognise that he has some influence on that whole area with this bill? Given that confidentiality is better regulated, will the discussion on whether the competitive clause in its present form is necessary be fed? Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u68	Well, I don't even know yet. How does Mr Van der Lee see that? How would this change?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u69	At a time when you are regulating this law that companies can better protect themselves from the disclosure of business secrets, they have fewer reasons to agree on terms of competition with their employees. That seems pretty obvious to me. Surely you can be generous in that and say that it has an influence on that discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u70	I do not want to deny an influence, but this is a very limited part that can be covered by competitive clauses. Taking customers is, I think, the most common motive. When you start working at a law firm, you're often told by default that you're not supposed to bring customers if you run. And lawyers are gonna run off again. This is undoubtedly interrelated, but I would not say in any way that we can or must take a very important step here with regard to the protection of trade secrets. For that, the field is simply too complex. We don't do that in an afternoon. I understand the interests of the trade union movement; not a bad word about it. But this is just not the place for that. We shouldn't be pulling this in. I have another question from Mr Veldman. And I have a few more later; this is a somewhat arbitrary order. Mr Veldman wondered whether the evidence should now be dealt with in greater detail. The Minister of Justice and Security is currently working on a bill on the modernisation of evidence law. That is, of course, because the possession of evidence once applied to patents. This will now have a broader effect and could thus also affect trade secrets. It could affect many more things, and that is why it makes sense to regulate it in general. That is what happens with the bill on the modernisation of evidence law. The colleague in question is currently considering that a consultation on this could start in May. It takes into account the company's assets in this area. In that sense, that is reassuring. This too should not be dealt with specifically here, but in a broader legislative process, which we hear more about before the summer recess. Mr Van der Lee asked what we do with situations where the atmosphere in the organisation is at stake. To be honest, I don't see the relationship with trade secrets. If someone steps out and says that the atmosphere in the organization is not right, he must do so, but that is not a business secret. Conversely, I don't think it's necessary to say that I'm throwing the secret technique for making this product on the table and, by the way, the atmosphere in the company is not right. Those aren't things that are related to each other. You can bring up the atmosphere in the organisation in all kinds of ways without affecting this legislative process at all. I believe that Mr Van der Lee still has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u71	Well, the atmosphere in a company... I was actually specifically concerned with an atmosphere in which admitting mistakes is not negotiable, whereas those mistakes may have fatal consequences. Is it possible, in your view, for people to continue to report them and not to call upon this law to prevent people from condemning these kinds of things?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u72	I'd like to go further. I don't see what it has to do with each other. There are all kinds of cases where there was no atmosphere in a company to recognise certain mistakes, which led to major accidents. We once saw an entire spaceship explode as a result of an issue with O-rings, where there were ten engineers in the organization who could tell us that it would go wrong. But honestly, I don't see how this is related to business secrets. It seems to me that parties should be free to discuss this. At the very end, of course, it is up to the court to determine what a business secret is and whether there has been any action in accordance with this law. Mr Paternotte asked me to be in touch with my colleagues on confidentiality issues. For example, he mentioned diesel gate and wondered if something like this could still be made public. Yeah, right. I don't need to talk to my colleagues about that. This is exactly the kind of example where the public interest is a title on the basis of which someone can call the shots. Mr Paternotte looks a little confused, I see, but perhaps that is the same look I had when he asked his question. I interpreted him that way, but if I did that wrong, I simply didn't understand his question. Then Mr Paternotte asks what we need to do to make this law public. I don't know the article numbers by heart, but there are three conditions under which something is a business secret. One of them, of course, is that you've made an effort to keep the secret a secret. Is that even known to companies? For two reasons, I say that I do not have to make such an effort. You must always make an effort to reveal things that change, but that a secret must remain secret is of all times. This is even something that has been taught to us since primary school. Secrets are a secret, otherwise they're not secrets anymore. I don't have to tell the Netherlands that the law on trade secrets doesn't protect you if the secret is no longer secret. I think this is obvious. I do think it is useful to point out to companies what is changing, namely that they have a certain amount of extra protection when someone makes it public despite their attempts to keep it a secret. We do this through channels, such as the RVO, the Netherlands Patent Centre and the Benelux Office for Intellectual Property. Those channels should be used to point out to entrepreneurs that they benefit from additional protection. In any case, the point of keeping a secret seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u73	Of course, the Minister is not about SMEs, but Mrs Van den Berg was right to point out that a very important advantage of this law is that it is not necessary for a company to have a large department that lays down, ensures and manages intellectual property rights, but that something can automatically be a business secret if sufficient measures have been taken to make it clear that it is a business secret. That's why I asked the question. We have a law now, but it doesn't mean that trade secrets are already insured. A company has to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u74	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u75	That is why I asked the question how you are going to ensure that those small companies which do not follow this treatment here and do not have lobbyists here know that they must take action if they feel that this law is better protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u76	For this law too, we are still in favour of this law, because it is not even by the House of Representatives.The practice is that someone protects his secrets that he has not yet patented. That's normal. SMEs know what to keep secret. We don't have to teach them that. There are many things in which we can support SMEs, but not here in particular. The only thing that changes is not that one should keep secrets secret, but that if someone walks out with them, you can do something about it. That's what this law does. The point that Mr Paternotte is concerned about, namely whether SMEs protect their secrets sufficiently, does not change. They always have to. Again, this has been poured into us with the dolphin. I know few SMEs who say: the secret recipe of my special local cookie is on the big clock, so my competitor can bake that cookie too. No, that's not how SMEs think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u77	Of course, that's not what I'm talking about. Let's go back to the hairdresser. Suppose that hairdresser has a very unique method of helping politicians get a coupe soleil. Then of course it is important that the hairdresser has made it sufficiently clear to the hairdressers and hairdressers that it is a unique method and it is not intended that they publish it in public so that other hairdressers can offer the same service. But they must know that they must meet all three conditions, including the third condition of trade secrecy. That touches on the question I asked about the many confidentiality clauses that are circulating on the Internet. There are all different formats, all of which contain different things. The question is whether they all meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u78	That is a case-by-case assessment. In one case, we want to ensure that there are no more politicians with coloured tints in the Chamber and the staff must be instructed. In the case of other trade secrets, it is another matter. Mr Paternotte overestimates not only the tasks but also the capacity of the public authorities to assess and even issue directives on these terms from this seat. That's an unstoppable task. It's about business secrets that we don't know, because otherwise they're not business secrets. To see if any kind of term would be sufficient for that: I will not begin because I would not know where to begin. That's an unstoppable task. Mr Paternotte cannot possibly expect that from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u79	A little extra to Mr. Paternotte's question. I do not think that the government should decide what a provision may look like, because it may vary on a case-by-case basis. Sectoral organisations also have a role to play. However, when disseminating information on the existence of this law, can the Minister not indicate simultaneously: "Dear SMEs, if you want to make optimal use of it, do you have to ensure that you have included a confidentiality clause and a competitive clause in a contract of employment?' What that term should look like is something the Minister rightly said was not about, but it would be nice if he could take this point with him in the explanatory statement of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u80	That's going in a direction that I like more. In the information on this law it should be stated that someone is also making an effort to keep it a secret. I do not want to go so far as to say that it has to be with a non-disclosure agreement, a non-compete clause or whatever. Because that is just different from one case to another, and I cannot say much about that. It is so much at the heart of this legislative proposal that it is a question of trade secrets which have to comply with those three conditions that this will have to be taken into account in communication. I'd like to go along with that. I hope that this will also remove Mr Paternotte's perhaps underlying concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u81	I regret that the Minister suggests that I would say here that we should draw up some sort of state secret declaration. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u82	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u83	I have said that there are dozens of different formats going around and that I think it is worth checking whether this practice is in line with the requirements of this law. Indeed, in line with this, Mrs van den Berg's request to communicate very clearly, precisely to parties involved, but which do not closely monitor the development of this new law and what changes and does not change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u84	I think it is a good idea to include in the communication on this law that one of the important prerequisites is that parties themselves have made an explicit effort to keep a business secret. It seems to me not only unwise, but also impossible, without knowing the specific business secrets, to give a ruling or to maintain a certain confidentiality statement. I simply cannot say much about that. I don't think that's gonna work. But I do not put words in Mr Paternotte's mouth. "State secret declaration" is his word. I'm not saying that, I'm just saying that it's impossible for the Empire to judge individual cases. We may agree that the communication on this new law, he would pass through the Upper Chamber, should take account of the need to take appropriate measures to preserve a business secret. I don't think I'm quite through the questions yet, but I'm gonna take a look at it. Yeah, it's me, in my opinion. I am therefore through the points and the amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u85	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I look at the members: is there a need for a second term? I see everyone shaking no. All the questions have been answered properly? That's good. Then we came to the end of the treatment of the Protection of Trade Secrets Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u86	The vote on the law and its amendments will take place on Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m.
