ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr F.C. The Jong. I ask the Members to stand up. On 6 April last, at the age of 95, Frans de Jong, former senator for the CDA, died. He was a member of the First Chamber of the CDA from 16 September 1980 to 11 June 1991. Franciscus Cornelius de Jong was born on 29 November 1922 in Alphen, North Brabant. In his hometown, he attended Roman Catholic elementary school. Afterwards he followed the gymnasium beta at the Sint-Jozefcollege in Turnhout, Belgium. In the middle of World War II he obtained his final exam and he immediately started working at building materials dealership Hoppe in Alphen. He also worked at his parents' farm. From 1945 to 1946, Mr De Jong was a member of the building committee of the municipality of Alphen and Riel. He then attended the Agricultural College in Wageningen, where he graduated as an agricultural engineer in 1951. Mr De Jong had direct access to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food as an official Security Fund. After two years he made the switch to the Cooperative Sugar Factories where he became secretary of the board. He stayed that way until he went with the Vulture in 1984. Meanwhile, in 1966, his employer's name had changed from Sugar Factories to Sugar Union. In addition to his work, Mr. De Jong was very active in various social functions at a young age. During his studies, for example, he was chairman of the agricultural study group in Wageningen. In the 1960s he was a member of the board of Scouting Nederland, in the 1970s he held administrative positions in health care and sports, and in the 1980s he was chairman of the Industrie- en Havenschap Moerdijk. There is hardly any social area in which Mr De Jong has not been active. Mr De Jong's political career began on 6 June 1962 when he became a member of the Provincial States of North Brabant for the KVP. He would remain a Provincial State Member for 17 years. From 1972 to 1979 he was also chairman of the CVP-, later the CDA-group. On 16 September 1980, Mr De Jong was sworn in as a member of the Upper House. From 1987 until his departure from this Chamber on 11 June 1991, he was Secretary of the CDA Group. About his motivation to become politically active, he once said: "Politics grabs you, with the underlying expectation that you can contribute to the proper functioning of democracy." Mr De Jong was an agricultural spokesperson on behalf of his group and became chairman of the permanent Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries in 1987. In his maiden speech on 15 April 1981 he already referred to the common agricultural policy of the European Communities: 'which has come from the very beginning and has been developed vigorously; but which is now being said to have been stalled'. In the debate on the Treaty establishing the European Union on 7 May 1985, Mr De Jong expressed his support for further European integration and strengthening the powers of the European Commission. The debates on the reform of the European Union and of the European agricultural policy would continue during its period in the First Chamber, and to this day. In an interview Mr De Jong called the Upper Chamber a kind of "sponsor" that sucks everything of interest. Because it does not function politically, there will be a strong emphasis on the personal responsibility of senators. He rejected pessimism about the image of politics: "Policy has become a common good by the media of a occupation of few. The public is increasingly looking through politics. Politicians are thus forced to live up to non-minor competition, with all its consequences." After his retirement Frans de Jong remained active. Almost immediately after leaving the First Chamber, when he had become 70, he was asked to become president of the Catholic League for Elders of the diocese of Breda. In this position, he discovered the Internet in the early 1990s. In 1996 he founded Stichting SeniorWeb, aimed at educating the elderly in the possibilities of computers and the Internet. Mr De Jong was convinced that the computer keeps people young. He said about this in 2007: "The personal contact is really not pushed away by the PC, on the contrary, the PC is countering unification. And what is also beautiful: people continue to discover things." Just as he continued to discover himself. In 1980 Mr. De Jong was appointed officer in the Order of Orange-Nassau and in 2001 he received the Province of North Brabant with which he became an honorary citizen of his province. In his political and social life, Mr De Jong set himself the goal of contributing to society. He has always worked for this with great dedication and commitment. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you. I shall now move on to the short sitting and then the sitting will be over. Then I'll take the opportunity to offer my condolences to the family. Then there is also an opportunity for the other MPs to express their condolences to the family.
