ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u1	The next item is the debate on the message that house milkers are prominently present at Airbnb. A warm word of welcome again to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber, all of whom have four minutes' speaking time. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party. The first thing I want to do is talk to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Be sure to have a fair chance at housing market, buy a fine property or rent it for a reasonable price. This has become unreachable in many places in the Netherlands. For years wait as a tenant and as a buyer misunderstand if there are other bidders that offer much more than the asking price. At such a tense housing market, every home is needed, needed to live in. But what we see is that more and more homes lose their function as homes and are offered as accommodations. In the opinion of the PvdA Group, rental via platforms has gotten out of hand. It leads to excrement. It is not just the loss of scarce living space that is harmful. Increasingly, there are also reports and complaints from citizens from neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, who say that the nuisance of tourist pressure is becoming too much for them. The rental of houses as accommodation also has a price uplifting effect on the housing market. There's a lot of rents involved. This afternoon I surfed to Airbnb's website and he praises it as well. The screen opens with terms like "find out what you could make" and "find out what top renters in your region deserve." There, revenues are reflected in The Hague of over €1,100 per month. In Amsterdam, a bit more popular, this is €2,657 per month. That's just data from Airbnb's website itself. This means in the latter case that by renting your property or part of your property you can earn €30,000 in additional income per year. It's just a price-raising effect. The present value of such rental income simply continues to be reflected in house prices. What is also gradually becoming an excrement is that there is an unfair competitive advantage. There's a lot of revenue. Entrepreneurs who drive a hotel or pension professionally pay VAT, pay tourist tax and pay their income tax neatly. In many cases, these revenues are excluded from the tax authorities' observation. Too easily these revenues can be excluded from taxation. The PvdA wants to remove the nuisance of renting accommodation as accommodation. We also want to remove the injustice associated with it. It really needs to be done. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat moet naar mijn oordeel langs drie sporen.]] First of all, regulate. If rental is of more than an incidental nature and the housing function is lost, this must not be done without the permission of the municipality. My question to the Minister is whether she shares that view. Turning a property into a store is not allowed without permission from the municipality. This type of change of destination should be subject to authorisation. The second thing the PvdA wants is mandatory disclosure by mediators. The banks are obliged to give up any savings balance so that the Tax Administration can check wealth income. We also want the platforms to be obliged to pass on data to, among other things, the Tax Administration. Thirdly, we want unfair competition to be eliminated. It is therefore necessary to ensure that VAT is paid, that tourist tax is paid and that income tax is paid. We're not interested in renting that has a secondary character. We really care about homes that are very generously offered on the housing market. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to deal with this in consultation with the co-governments. Is she willing to fight the excesses? I am referring to the excesses I mentioned: the disturbance of the housing market, the nuisances in the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, the unfair competitive advantage and the tax advantage enjoyed. Mr. Chairman. In Groningen we have a proverb and that is: what doesn't itch, you don't have to scratch. This does itch in society and that itch needs to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u3	Thank you. Then Mrs. Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u4	Yes, good evening. Today we are talking about a phenomenon that was not so great a few years ago. Temporary rental of your home to tourists via platforms like Airbnb has taken a huge flight. In Amsterdam the rental has exploded: in four years almost three times as much, with 20,000 ads in our capital, most of which consists of ordinary homes. It sounded so nice and convenient at first, but soon it turned out to be raw capitalist forms. In large cities worldwide, benevolent individuals were overtaken by investors and pawnshops who make big money from tourist rentals. In this way normal houses are withdrawn from their own inhabitants, even in cities where housing is already in short supply and where house prices are falling apart. In the four major cities, more than one third of the offer on Airbnb is in the hands of parties that rent out more than one property. But houses are for living, not for speculating. Can the Minister indicate what share of the increase in house prices is due to platforms such as Airbnb? What is the Minister going to do about that in practice? On funda is now even advertised with Airbnb, such as this nice winink that was for sale in Groningen. In one month, €1,700 was earned through Airbnb, for a small apartment whose living room has been converted into a bedroom. Such forms of tourist rental give start-ups even less chance of a home and make neighborhoods less liveable. No wonder people rebel, like in Portugal. Demonstrators there say what is also heard in our country: the government must ensure that many fewer houses are removed, because housing is a fundamental right. Does the Minister agree with the protesters and me? What lessons are actually drawn from other cities? What does the Minister think of an example from Berlin, where there has been a ban on the holiday rental of an entire house since 2016? Could that be a solution in our country? What does the Minister think of the New York example, where certain parts of the city are excluded from Airbnb? Can we do that in our cities? Municipalities now join forces, also internationally, and do what they can. But the cabinet has to help. So what is the Minister going to do to make sure that the housing shortage is not increased by platforms like Airbnb, Wimdu or Booking.com? In June 2017, a motion from me was adopted to give municipalities more opportunities to restrict tourist rental and tighten up laws. Where is the legislation on tourist rental? This is taking far too long and the problems are increasing. My party, for example, has been working for a long time for a registration obligation. Platforms such as Airbnb do not share data about landlords, which makes it difficult for municipalities to maintain. So far, the Minister is talking about a registration obligation, but when will it actually be there? Is the Minister prepared to oblige platforms to include the addresses in the ads in the new law that comes? Too often things go wrong. Strict enforcement is necessary, not only with the landlords, but also with the platforms. Landlords try to circumvent rules and platforms like Airbnb facilitate that. In what way can this accessory to housing or the facilitation of other illegal practices be fined, for example through the Law on Economic Crimes? I would like to hear what the Minister is going to do to protect our housing, how municipalities are being helped to maintain and collect tourist tax, and how platforms themselves can be addressed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u5	Good in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u6	Yeah, that's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u7	Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Houses are built to live in. If the residents are on holiday, it is fine if a family member stays in it for a while or even rent a house to a tourist for a while, but the practice has become very different in recent years. Unfortunately, we now see far too often that houses are used to make a lot of money. More and more often we also see that house milkers not only rent houses for far too much money permanently but also make huge profits through Airbnb. In Amsterdam, for example, it is an average of €130 per night. So if you rent your house for twenty nights, you earn €2,600 per month. That's a lot more than the normal rent of a place like this. For the bank account of such a cottage milker it may be nice, but unfortunately this undesirable behavior for the rest of the environment is often extremely annoying. Because neighborhoods that are meant to live in turn into tourist districts with increasingly less social cohesion. There are often noise nuisances or other nuisances. The tourists just don't feel like part of that neighborhood and owners are almost never present themselves, making them difficult to talk to because of the stragglers, the real neighborhood residents. It has just been said: Amsterdam, as a tourist attraction of our country, suffers most from the rental of properties via Airbnb. Research by the municipality shows that the number of advertisements has tripled in a short period of time. In the meantime, there are 20,000 properties on it. Fortunately, the municipality of Amsterdam does a lot to deal with illegal rentals, but runs into a number of problems. That's very undesirable. It is our job as a government to pull them side by side with the municipality of Amsterdam and the other municipalities that suffer from Airbnb and the disruptive effects it has on the housing market. That is why we are calling for a number of things, which I would like to refer to the Minister. I'm very curious about her response to that. Is she willing to actively contribute to further approach to the rental of houses via Airbnb? Does it wish to advocate, at European level, the compulsory sharing of data with municipalities by collaborative platforms? And does the Minister agree that it would be good to require platforms such as Airbnb to report the address or registration number? Mr. Chairman. At the moment, only the landlords can be fined. Mrs Beckerman from the SP said something about that earlier. Platforms like Airbnb spring from the dance. I am therefore very curious to hear the Minister's reaction to the proposal made by the VVD and the SP in Het Parool this morning to hold the platforms responsible for this. And what about the tax estimate for rental via platforms? I think that is a very interesting point. When people rent their homes, they simply have to pay taxes on them. That doesn't seem to always happen. How can this and what exactly is the situation with regard to the exchange of information between the municipalities and the Tax Administration? That's my first question. Is it true that there is hardly any check on whether people do pass on the rental of their property to the Tax Office? Does this have to do with the capacity of the Tax Administration or are there other causes? Finally, one final question to the Minister. We all know the problems in Amsterdam and the other major cities, but what about in other municipalities? For example, look at the Wadden Islands. There's also a shortage of housing there. There's housing shortage. What about the rental via platforms like Airbnb? Shouldn't we do something about that, too? I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u9	Thank you. I call Mr Koerhuis of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u10	Mr. Chairman. If you want to rent your house on Airbnb if you're away for a weekend or on holiday, you should be able to do so. As a landlord you can earn back some of the costs of your own holiday and as a tenant you get an authentic experience. The whole principle of Airbnb is good, and the vast majority of holiday rentals are just good and do good work. However, as soon as there is live fraud, unfair competition with hotels or nuisances, a line is crossed. Then it is up to us to say: we do not want to do this and we are going to do this hard. That's how we keep neighborhoods habitable. Municipalities can therefore make rules to which rental via Airbnb must comply. They can also best estimate how much space can be given. But we can give municipalities a handle. Firstly, we want to take tough action against house fraud such as illegal sub- and room rentals. We have previously tabled a motion together with the SP to label housing fraud as an economic offence and to take away profits. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? Secondly, it is very acidic if there is a housing shortage somewhere and large-scale housing is permanently rented on Airbnb. You can't. A property has a destination and no hotel destination. Bad landlords shouldn't be unfair competitors of good hotel owners. I've just been talking about illegal sub- and room rentals. The same applies, of course, to Airbnb. Again, wrong holiday rentals sometimes include the fine. The profits are so large that the fines can be paid easily. As far as the VVD and the SP are concerned, we make it possible to label this as an economic offence, so that full illegal profits can be taken away. So we hit bad vacation rentals where it really hurts: in their wallet. For how many nights rentals on Airbnb the border is, varies by municipality. They will have to make a local assessment and enforce it. A notification requirement for holiday rental helps. After a lot of pain and difficulty Amsterdam has made agreements with Airbnb to automatically collect the tourist tax and have landlords comply with municipal rules. What can the Minister do to help other municipalities that want to make the same agreements with Airbnb and other online platforms? There seems to be a lack of clarity about income tax when you rent on Airbnb. If you rent your own property on Airbnb, 70% of that net income will be added to your own home. If you sublet your own rental on Airbnb you do not have to pay tax if the income does not exceed the paid rent. Can the Minister confirm this? And if this is true, could it be put on the website of the Tax Administration for Airbnb and other online platforms? Last but not least, it's a nuisance. Your house must always be safe. We have already taken many good measures, such as the Rotterdam Act and the asowet. With the first one, we can ward off nuisances from certain problem areas and with the second one, mayors can give a behavior guide. If people still cause nuisance, they can be evicted from their homes. However, municipalities and corporations are not always aware of this. We think it is important that municipalities and corporations become aware of this and make use of sharing, linking and analysing data, for example from the Basic Registration Persons, the BRP, as well as keeping the National Approach Address Quality up-to-date. Could the Minister provide a comprehensive response on the state of play regarding the BRP and the National Approach Address Quality? Can the Minister promise to work on this quickly? I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u11	Thank you. I call Mr Kops of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Airbnb: in itself a nice and convenient platform. At least, it can be for people who want to rent out their apartment every once in a while and with that they want to earn a little extra. Basically, I'm fine. But Airbnb also has another side. A city like Amsterdam is already full of hotels. A normal, affordable home is hardly to be found. If tourists start moving in massively through Airbnb rented homes and rooms, then the whole capital will turn into a kind of tourist reserve. What do the ordinary Amsterdammers, if they are still there, actually think about having a different neighbor every day and feeling like strangers in their own city? What is the Minister going to do that tourists will practically take over the city and the Amsterdammers will not be able to get their own house? Mr. Chairman. Home milkers have also found their way to Airbnb, and that is worrying. In a city like Amsterdam, for example, 40% of the offer is already in the hands of parties that rent out more than one property. Six months ago, we were talking about house milkers in this room. Back then, we were talking about crooked landlords who abuse the scarcity in the housing market by asking for towering rents, or rather demanding. They do not hesitate to threaten or intimidate tenants, with the result that tenants do not dare to go to the Rent Commission or the police and the cottage milker can go unhindered. It just can't be. Those cottage milkers need to be dealt with like crazy. The question now is: will that happen? What have municipalities and the minister done about it in the past six months? When it comes to the housing market, we know this minister as someone who talks a lot, talks a lot and meets a lot, but very little is happening. As far as the house milkers are concerned, the same seems to be happening now. Six months ago, the Minister said in the debate: "The conversation with the municipalities has begun. The meeting's on. There's a follow-up meeting. It will result in a number of actions locally and a number of actions that we can do together." Nice and wooly. Could the Minister please give us an update? What has become of this in the meantime? Six months ago, the Minister also said: municipalities will have to do their part, for example in enforcement. And yes, the Minister is right about that, of course. But do the municipalities do this? What about, for example, in Amsterdam, where this minister has been alderman, with that enforcement, with dealing with the house milkers? - Is it gonna happen? Or is it a municipal administration mess? Alderman Ivens van Amsterdam writes in his letter that landlords of properties via Airbnb are relatively difficult to find, because there are no addresses on the adverts. In addition, the platform refuses to provide this information to the municipality on request. Enforcement could, of course, be much easier and more efficient if Airbnb is obliged to include the addresses in the ads, or alternatively a registration number whose municipality knows the corresponding address. How does the Minister feel about this? I'd like a response. Municipalities may include in their licensing system and regulation periodic penalty payments and fines that may be imposed on malicious landlords. How many times has that happened in the last six months? In order to prevent the cottage milkers from taking these fines into account and therefore not being awake at all, it is a good idea to condemn housing fraud as an economic crime. Profits from illegal rentals can then be taken away. How's that going in the meantime? No more half measures, no more padding and wetting, but crooked landlords hit where it hurts them most: in their wallet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u13	Thank you. Then Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Airbnb is really a big problem in some cities, it hasn't become; it's just already. The size becomes such that neighborhoods change, the atmosphere changes and the people who have lived there for a long time no longer feel at home in their own neighborhood. It hunts down house prices and makes it almost impossible for low and middle income families, for example, to live in the city. Who's gonna sing "at us in the Jordan" later? It still plays mostly in Amsterdam, but the offer in other cities, such as Utrecht and Eindhoven, is also increasing. Even in several coastal towns we see Airbnb increase considerably. With regard to the fact that a large part of the offer in Amsterdam is owned by owners with three to ten houses on Airbnb, we must first of all note that this is not a criminal offence. You can own several houses in the Netherlands and you can rent a part. The municipality is trying to do something about it, but that is clearly not enough. Airbnb poses itself as an almost idealistic platform on which people can share property. But as idealistic as it was meant to be, it is a problem in Amsterdam, and as far as we are concerned, it is a problem. The central question remains: does Amsterdam have enough legal means to address the problem? We're talking about a local problem here. The city council of Amsterdam simply needs to address its own problem. Only if Amsterdam lacks legal instruments can the Empire play a role. We know that the Minister is discussing a registration system. I understand that a letter was sent to the Chamber this afternoon, in which the Minister gave an update: something is coming. Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about that? When's it coming to the room? And when can we expect something like that to work? And how's it gonna work? If all landlords receive a unique number, municipalities may require them to include that number in the advertisements on the platforms. This gives municipalities a better picture of which properties are rented out. Also, it is no longer possible to rent out via another platform once the maximum number of rental days has been reached. In other countries we see several examples. Same in New York, as I just mentioned. On 21 October 2016, a law came into force in New York prohibiting the letting of entire houses for less than 30 days via websites such as Airbnb. The rental company still tries to challenge the decision through a lawsuit, but seems to have little chance of success. Last year San Francisco also took this measure. That brought back the offer of Airbnb addresses from 10,000 to 5,500. Looks like it's a result. As a result of that last example, what we saw in New York and San Francisco, I ask the Minister whether this can be used as a basis in the Netherlands. Can a city like Amsterdam enter this itself? Or is it necessary to prohibit by national law to rent entire homes for less than 30 days via websites such as Airbnb? In doing so, we would like to offer the possibility that the municipality may grant an exemption, so that space can be made in places where you do want this type of activity. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that this possibility should be properly examined and that it should be carefully considered what its effects may be, including its effects on enforcement and, for example, on standard bed-and-breakfast rentals? The effects we see in San Francisco give us the idea that this option should definitely be considered. This must be done in the first instance by municipalities, but if they are unable to do so to a sufficient extent, then a national approach is conceivable for us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u15	Thank you. The Minister asked for a 15-minute reflection period, so about... Oh, sorry, excuse me. Mrs. Van Eijs, the best horse in the stable. Apologies. But then you're also the closing point. I'll give you the last word. Mrs Van Eijs from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u16	Mr. Chairman. As my many colleagues have said, it seemed such a sympathetic idea. If you are on holiday yourself, rent your property for a short period of time and earn a small pocket penny. And it allows for a small growth of tourism, while the city is already so tight in its space. However, there are important disadvantages. We therefore need to tackle the excrement of rental platforms hard. For example, rental platforms are being abused in order to circumvent laws and regulations relating to hotels. This creates unsafe situations. Think, for example, of fire hazard. Rental platforms make it much more difficult for the municipal authorities to manage tourism. We can see the consequences of this in Amsterdam, for example. That way, this kind of rental can also cause a lot of trouble. You'll only live next door to a place where tourists are stoned or drunk partying every weekend. Airbnb, according to research, also has a price uplifting effect. There are even mortgage providers with specific Airbnb mortgages. And sometimes the landlord doesn't give up the income at the IRS. I have asked questions about this before with my colleague Van Weyenberg. Just now, two of my colleagues also referred to this. Those questions and the answers showed that in 2016, 8,000 households reported income from temporary rental of their own home. To be honest, that doesn't seem much. Airbnb's figures show that 1.4 million overnight stays were booked in the Netherlands in 2016. If I spend up to 60 days renting per house, as is the rule, it's a minimum of 23,000 landlords. So it seems to me that not everyone makes their tax returns. I see that several colleagues have suggested the introduction of a registration requirement. My colleague, Mr Paternotte, has already asked for this and tabled a motion to help municipalities in taxing tourist tax. This is in the interest of tourist municipalities, but it may also help our Tax Office. Indeed, income tax must also be paid on rental income. Can such a registration obligation also help our Tax Administration to tax income in a fair way? How could such a system of registration be financed? Is this possible, for example, from the income of tourist tax and income tax? Or should we work with a system of fees? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u17	Thank you. As I said, Mrs Van Eijs is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. I'm gonna suspend until 8:00 and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u18	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the input of all the spokesmen. Thank you, too, for the many questions they have asked on a subject that you and I have been dealing with for some time, namely the excesses resulting from tourist rental. For the sake of completeness, I report that it is not just the case in Amsterdam, Barcelona, Berlin or New York. The various spokesmen have said this themselves, because this is something that also affects many other municipalities in the Netherlands. When I look at the steps I have taken since the last time we spoke about this, I will also say that we are working intensively with a number of municipalities. It clearly manifests itself in the capital, of course, but not only there. Many have just noticed that the shadows of this relatively new phenomenon, which is not so new anymore, but has emerged very quickly, have great effects. It is also about nuisance, improper use of the housing stock and an unfair playing field vis-à-vis the regular hotel industry. Regularly we see in the media that it is still possible, for example, to place illegal advertisements on platforms' websites and that there are other abuses. In fact, all the spokesmen have asked what is going on and what is needed. Mr Kops asked very strongly about the results of the various discussions I had, so I thought I would start with that and then answer the more specific questions. I started by asking Amsterdam and other municipalities where else the problem is. This has led to cooperation with the G-4, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague and Utrecht, and also with, for example, Leiden, Haarlem, Amstelveen and Delft. Those municipalities say that's what happens to them. They would like to work with the Ministry to see how they can do that best. Of course we also talk to the big platforms, so the advertising providers. I have come to the conclusion that approximation of legislation is both desirable and necessary to bring it under control. I have support for this with the parties I have just mentioned. That's why I can now work on the bill and on an ICT design. I do this together with the municipalities, because as far as I am concerned or as far as we are concerned, it is a registration requirement. In doing so, the legal possibility must go hand in hand with the possibility for the municipalities and the platforms that will work on it to put it into practice. As far as we are concerned, it would be a system that gives municipalities insight into who wants to place an advertisement on a platform. In this way it becomes clear to the municipality exactly which property is offered and the municipality can find an infringement, because the point is that the platforms cooperate in mentioning the registration number on their website. Therefore, this significantly strengthens the enforcement capacity of the municipality. By doing so, we avoid that landlords can still advertise with properties that are not registered and therefore have no registration number. In this way, illegal advertisements can be traced very quickly and enforcement can be carried out. This also concerns the collection of tourist tax. It is important, however, and for this reason, the discussions over the last few months have been valuable, since all parties say that they can get through this and that the large platforms, including Airbnb, will contribute to the registration obligation and to a well-functioning system. The step we are about to take together is, of course, quite big. This includes a normal, normal and proper parliamentary process of legislative change. This includes the system that I have to set up and which we still have to agree on. It'll take a while. Legislation just takes time. That means that until then I will continue to look together with the parties at the excesses that occur. I assume that the municipalities are active in their enforcement. Moreover, Amsterdam has already done so in a number of areas. The negative burden that cannot be solved through legislation at the push of a button will therefore be addressed in the meantime with such instruments. I have also said to the municipalities that, pending this legislation, which we are all working towards, it can be very helpful if the municipalities that are more and more affected by this phenomenon are given a hand-in-hand treatment, which we can draw up, on the basis of which they have a clear picture of what they can do now, pending the registration system. This hand-out also makes them clear what the registration system will offer for them to implement very quickly when it is there. That is the state of play of the discussions we have had so far. Mr President, before I turn to the specific questions, you may want to allow an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u20	It is a very good thing that the Minister is working on this so vigorously. Nevertheless, I had some doubts when she spoke of a proper parliamentary process. I agree with her that this is necessary in the case of new legislation, but I wonder if she has any idea of when such a registration system can really see the light of day. What should we think about in terms of trajectory, implementation and technical development? Can we say it's gonna be there in a year? Or should we count on two or three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u21	That is, of course, a good question from Mr Ronnes. I'm ambitious in that. The legislative process must of course take its course, but if we all do our best, I think we should be able to be very far away by the end of September now. I would like to see us say to each other at the end of next year: now the legislation is in place, now the ICT system is there and now the municipalities and the platforms can work on it. But that is ambitious, I say. It's my ambition, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u22	Mr Kops is still on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u23	Following on: the Minister says it may take another year, but what will the Minister do in the meantime? The number of house milkers on Airbnb is increasing. The illegal rentals are increasing. Amsterdammers no longer feel at home in their own streets. What is the Minister going to do about it in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u24	The municipalities, and certainly Amsterdam, have already done a lot themselves, for example in the sphere of enforcement. Offering homes, and sometimes whole buildings, in Amsterdam as an illegal hotel so these were actually permanently rented out to tourists at some point took quite worrying forms. Amsterdam has managed to reduce this considerably by means of enforcement. I think that's a very significant step. I do not want to say everything here on behalf of Amsterdam, but there is now a debate in Amsterdam on how to put a stop to it in certain areas where the phenomenon is most prevalent. Moreover, such a registration system could provide a solution. The nuisance must be countered. People need to know where to report it, so that the municipality can also act there. I have just said that this is not just happening in Amsterdam. I am also talking to the municipalities to help them with what they can already do within the existing laws and regulations. Maybe I should also note the following. In the discussions we had, the municipalities also stressed that they would like to take this step and that they would like a registration requirement, but at the same time they also want municipal autonomy. So they want to have the freedom to continue to give it its own content. Because of course it may well be that Utrecht or a Wadden Island that were just mentioned also wants a slightly different application than Amsterdam. It concerns, for example, the number of days or the number of persons. So they'd like to keep that autonomy. We want to create a system in which municipalities have the space to give their own interpretation. Mr. Chairman. I think I have partly answered the questions by sketching where we are now, but I am still passing by what has been said. Many questions have been asked about taxes, tourist tax, income tax and any problems with the Tax Administration. Mr Moorlag has also asked a question about this. He asked if there is or will be an obligation for the platforms to transfer data to the Tax Administration. Such a registration system may provide opportunities to involve data in the enforcement of income tax. That still needs to be further investigated. I'm talking to Finance about that, too. I do see opportunities to do that sort of thing. Mr Moorlag also knows that the exchange of information, including between municipalities and the Tax Administration, often means that there is a legal basis. We must create that legal basis, but we are talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u25	First of all, I appreciate the Minister's efforts. I believe that a number of steps are being taken in the right direction, but I wanted to argue in my contribution that there should really be a coherent approach. I believe that tax legislation is a crucial element of this. I do not want us to be able to arrange for banks to be obliged to pass on savings balances so that the Tax Office can see that someone on a fortune of a tonne is still earning an interest rate of €500 a year, but that we cannot find a legal obligation to pass on rental income, which can really run into the tens of thousands of euros, to the Tax Office. Does the Minister agree that it is desirable for platforms to be required to pass this type of income and data on to the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u26	I certainly share Mr Moorlag's ambition. I think it is important, also because it is fairer, that these data are known to the Tax Administration, for example in the field of income tax. It can also be about sales tax and it is about tourist tax, which is now also collected by the platforms in Amsterdam. I think we should take that into account in the system. I believe that the obligation to register provides a basis for this. I say to Mr Moorlag and to the others, therefore, that they will take this with them in the course of their work. Let me also look at the way in which this is best done in the consultation with Finance. We need to be able to maintain in all kinds of ways, including when paying taxes of this kind; all the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u27	I welcome this commitment from the Minister, but I am talking about a.I repeat that... approach in coherence. It is about income tax and also about tourist tax. I have looked into this subject quite quickly this afternoon. For example, I know that Rederij Doeksen, who operates the ferry service to Terschelling and Vlieland, collects the tourist tax for these municipalities. So it's possible. My question to the Minister is to look at tax legislation in full width: VAT, tourist tax and income tax. It should develop a closed system for this, with registration and an obligation to share data. The minister said she shares that ambition and she is showing great ambition. I am by nature an optimist: where there is a will, there is a detour. Does the Minister therefore wish to assure me that if necessary she intends to take this detour?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u28	I want to look for all roads, but there is a distinction. One is the municipal tax area, because the tourist tax is collected by the municipality. The income tax is collected here. So we need to look very carefully at what legal basis you have to implement in the legislative amendment. I think this is about income tax and other taxes levied at a state level. But I share the ambition. It is also on the agenda in the talks with the municipalities. And we already have the good example of Amsterdam, which collects the tourist tax via the platforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u29	Finally. I'm glad all roads and detours are being explored. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says: if the bill is presented, will these fiscal aspects also be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u30	That would be my ambition, but I also indicated that I'm still talking about it. I would also like to make haste with the obligation to register, if possible including these elements; certainly. In response to other questions put by Mr Moorlag, I say yes, a form of regulation and yes, taxation must be considered. Unfair competition is an important consideration. This is what we are mainly doing to combat the excesses, because there are also examples of neat rentals within the rules that apply to them. But tax must also be levied. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the question of addresses. In my opinion, the question came from several spokesmen: could we oblige the platforms to publish the addresses of the homes offered for rent by tourists? One. I think that with such an obligation to register that wish is actually unnecessary, because the fact that you can only place an ad with registration number means that the municipality is always able to find out the address. There's an address behind that number. And two. Publishing addresses has a certain risk, because that can give people with evil intentions insight into when residents are not at home. I think those criminals can also calculate at which moments the property may be empty. If you know a little what tourists do in such a city... So that's tricky, but I hope I can at least reassure those who asked by saying that it doesn't have to, because the number that gives insight to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u31	I hear the Minister say twice now: wait for registration legislation. But it has been said before: what are we doing in the meantime? There seems to be a lot of uncertainty about this income tax. The Minister went over that a little quickly, but is it true what I said in my speech? And what are we going to do with the Basic Registration Persons in the meantime, as long as that registration legislation is not yet in place, with that National Approach Address Quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u32	Mr Koerhuis did indeed ask questions about this and made comments on it. I wrote for myself that it affects the responsibility of Secretary of State Knops. So I'm gonna have to take a good look at that. That question from Mr Koerhuis concerned the basic registration and the National Approach Address quality. I can answer that briefly now, but again, it is not in my portfolio. I can understand the idea in itself, so I am happy to take that question from Mr Koerhuis. I will come back to that at a later date, if Mr Koerhuis agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u33	Do I hear the Minister swearing to a letter? And then there's the other point of the uncertainty about income tax. I've been trying to clarify things. Is that right? Can the Minister confirm that? And if that's true, why can't it simply be posted on the Tax Administration website, pending registration legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u34	If Mr Koerhuis wants a letter on this, he can do so. But again, I'll take it with me. I'm gonna go with Raymond Knops, the Secretary of State at BZK, see if we can get that straight. As far as taxation and income tax are concerned, I have just said that it seems to me the easiest thing to do is to link it to the process of compulsory registration and not to take any steps at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u35	The Minister says important steps. I'm asking for an explanation on the website of the IRS, because it's not here right now. It's unclear, even if I go there. I'm just asking for a brief explanation: this is how it works. I'm not asking for big steps. I hope that the Minister can undertake or send a letter on that. At least I'm asking her to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u36	I'd like to see what explanation is missing. I believe that some of this explanation is indeed given, especially by the municipalities. But I say to Mr Koerhuis that I will check it out. And if it's just about informing me about the current situation, maybe I misunderstood his question, then I can imagine that maybe it could be even more extensive or better or different. I'll also see if I can get that through the IRS. Mr. Chairman. Then a number of questions went a bit wider about the housing market. The picture is that this is now happening on a very large scale. It is also a real problem, but I have just said that in Amsterdam, for example, we see that the municipality has managed to reduce to a large extent the really illegal hotels, so that homes are made available only for tourist rentals, simply by maintaining: notifications, fines, also heavy fines, and very active communication. So that problem is now less common in Amsterdam than in the past. The picture is that tourist rental in itself causes the scarcity, the problem that start-ups cannot join the housing market. I think that's an element, but it's certainly not the only one. About one in ten homes are currently purchased not to live in them themselves. This has to do with a number of factors, such as the low interest rate on savings, which we have just talked about. It has to do with several things. All in all, there is a very tense housing market. Of course, this has a huge price boost, but this problem is not only caused by the increase in tourist rentals. In the case of mortgage reinforcement in the Netherlands, the mortgage is based on a stable income. This does not include income from tourist rentals. In very many cases of offering mortgage products, tourist rental is also explicitly prohibited. In other words, it can certainly play a role here and there, but overall it seems to have a limited effect on the rise in house prices, because they depend on many more factors. Moreover, I fully agree with the spokesmen who said that we need to be able to protect that living position. That's exactly what the congregations and I want. Then Mr Kops asked about the original article to which we owe this debate. That was an article in The Financial Daily. It said that parties also offer multiple addresses on Airbnb. The tricky thing is that it seems as if the article in the FD was based on incomplete information. It is also difficult, because you can also offer other types of rental on Airbnb, such as a bed and breakfast. Well, that's okay. There is another way, through a licensing system, that you can, of course, have control over. People can put an ad on it, pick it up and offer it again; then it also seems to count twice. So it's kind of hard to get a very precise picture. However, the aim of the registration system is ultimately to remove that ambiguity, so that municipalities are exactly able to know that it complies with their own rules. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the economic crime. It is true that a motion has already been adopted on this subject. I said we're gonna check it out. Of course I did. I'd like to put something else on the other side of that. I very much understand the idea, as some have put it, that we should get into the wallet of those who knowingly do this illegally, against the municipal rules. I understand. I'm sensitive to that, too. Of course, so do the municipalities. But that is also possible in the current situation. For example, if a tenant sublet the living space without the permission of the landlord, you can act against it through the civil court. Then compensation can be claimed, then profit payments can be applied for. If the lease is not fulfilled, you can claim damages. This compensation may be as high as the proceeds obtained by the tenant through the illegal sub-rent. For example, you can include in the lease a penalty clause stating that the tenant must pay a fine if he fails to comply with the lease. The amount of that can also be included in that contract. There are therefore several ways in which the landlord himself can take action at the time when the tenant, contrary to the contract, moves to illegal sub-rentals. I might be able to expand it a little bit, because that actually has something to do with it. I think we could look at this, too, together with the EZK Secretary of State, at the European directive on which it is based. It's there; we know it. This European directive limits us to a certain extent in dealing with this issue. The introduction of legal obligations is therefore not self-evident in this European context. This point could be raised in Brussels, with the European Union, in order to ensure that there are sufficient safeguards, even in the future, for the cooperation of the platforms, because the platforms are needed. I can imagine taking that on with Secretary of State Keijzer. This also affects the question of how other cities are dealing with the issue at the moment. Some of you have mentioned examples: San Francisco, New York. It's different everywhere. That may also be one of the problems. In America there are cities that have indeed chosen the formula that there is no limitation on long-term rentals, more than 30 days, and that you can only rent for a short time if you are also a resident of the house. That's another way to deal with it. With us it is often called a bed and breakfast if it is a room in a house where the resident himself is present. I believe that in New York we are also looking at an entire area of excluding Airbnb. That's kind of tricky, because how do you define that area? There are always some sort of border effects. You could also see if you could dose through the registration obligation. If I'm right, Amsterdam is looking at it now. If you see that there is a lot registered in a particular area, you should be able to say: now we think it is enough. Then you put a stop on that. I think it is very good that these cities have a lot of international contact with each other. I know it's been going on for a while. I think you're a lot stronger with that, too. We should not underestimate the size of these platforms. They are simply large multinationals, which are active all over the world, in 36,000 cities, I believe. So that's immense. It helps, of course, if you learn as much from each other as possible, if you can take over from each other what works and see what doesn't work. But I don't think you can copy it one-on-one, because there are just a lot of differences between laws and regulations as well as municipal requirements in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u37	I feel that the whole discussion is leading towards a solution where you will say: not in principle, but when you apply for a registration number, you get permission. If a municipality has eyes on it, it can also dose where it does and what it does not want Airbnb to allow. My question was actually: is there any possibility in the Netherlands that an entire municipality will be banned from doing Airbnb and that you will only allow it in certain places? Is that legal? Or isn't it possible here yet? You can do it in San Francisco.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u38	There is plenty of room for municipalities to implement their own policies. But I don't think we've seen a church that tried this and said: we don't want that at all in our congregation. In view of the cities abroad that have tried to do so, I know that there are other problems, because it is incredibly difficult to maintain them. Hence, the municipalities active in the field have chosen to cooperate with the platforms. This cooperation will, of course, be greatly improved when you can introduce the obligation to register. Within the registration obligation you could then choose your own policy. Theoretically, municipalities, I think, could also choose not to make it possible at all. But I would like to have that question examined in legal terms as well. I'll be able to get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Eijs asked about the funding of the registration system. That's part of the conversation we're having with the municipalities right now. The distribution of these costs must therefore take place. The fact is, of course, that once the system is there, it should earn itself back. But it's part of the conversation. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps more detailed questions have been asked, but let me conclude by pointing out that this should be done through a legislative amendment. This change of law would enable us to settle a number of issues, including the collection of the tax, as was just laid down by Mr Moorlag, among others. But it also offers other possibilities. There is also a great concern of municipalities about security. With this obligation to register, municipalities are able to monitor compliance with the Building Decree. Think of fire safety in particular. That lives very much in the municipalities and I think that this is a good thing when we introduce such a registration obligation. Again, I look closely with municipalities at what they need in the final design, but also in the legal basis to make that possible. Mr President, I would like to take a look at my notes. We had had the Wadden Islands, the reporting obligation, the economic crime and abroad. I think I've answered the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u39	Fine. I don't see any MPs protesting that. Is there a need for a second term? At least that is the case with the first speaker. I would like to give the floor to Mr Moorlag. Everyone has a third of the time of the first term, that is one minute twenty. I call Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u40	Thank you, Mr President. What the PvdA Group is about is that there will be a coherent and coherent system. Registration is a step in that. I believe that tax legislation also offers good points of reference. Let me give you an example of how to manage things effectively. Everyone is obliged to declare their income, but we have decided at some point that an employer who makes a lease car available to an employee who has to report actively to the Tax Administration. I think we should also introduce this type of mechanism here. Mr. Chairman. I have another motion. It's actually a dive in a pool where already some water has run away, but where...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u41	Is that also a Groningen proverb?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u42	No, it's not so much a Groningen proverb. There's still enough water in there to make that dive. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas frequent renting of accommodation for tourist purposes leads to excesses, such as nuisances in residential areas, removal of living space from the housing stock, improper competition with business-run accommodation and non-payment of VAT, tourist and income tax;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the co-governments, to develop a coherent approach to removing these excesses and to inform the Court within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Beckerman and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27926-287]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u43	Yes, one final remark. Those three months the Minister must understand that it is not the intention to come up with a draft legislative proposal within three months, but rather with a somewhat chic word, not Groningen's procedural architecture on how those stacked goals that are formulated here are going to be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u44	Very well, thank you. Then Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u45	Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, this was a very special debate, because from the left to the right everyone agreed that we need to deal with it quickly, that this really leads to excesses and that we cannot have this at this time of great housing shortage. That's pretty unique. Also unique, although that is now a bit less, is that Mr Koerhuis is about to table two motions on behalf of both of us. I think that indicates how urgent this problem is. I welcome the Minister's reply, but I really do miss that sacred fire to deal with it faster and harder. That is why I have three suggestions, two of them with Mr Koerhuis and one broader motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas additional legislation is envisaged to combat excesses in the housing market, as in tourist rentals;]] [[Whereas municipalities wish to maintain, but landlords of tourist rental homes are often difficult to find via platforms;]] [[points out that it is desirable that tourist rental platforms such as Airbnb, Wimdu and others with municipalities should participate in the enforcement of rules;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether in the upcoming legislation tourist rental platforms can be required to cooperate with the tracing of landlords' data, by or mentioning the addresses on the site, or by indicating a registration number (which contains an address),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Smeulders and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27926-288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u46	And those two seconds I have left, you can keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u47	Ah, you're a good man! Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply, as well as for real answers and the direction she has taken. I fully endorse Mrs Beckerman's words. I haven't been here very long, but I've never seen a debate where there's so much consensus in the House of Representatives. Both the analysis and the direction of solution are very similar. That seems to me only very nice for the Minister, because then it is clear which way we should go. I also have every confidence that the Minister is dealing with this in a good way. We have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in municipalities where many tourists arrive there is regular illegal rental of housing via "sharing platforms" such as Airbnb;]] [[Whereas municipalities often do not know which houses are rented through "part-platform" and that the "part-platform" do not share their data using European regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at European level, mandatory sharing of data by "sharing platforms" with municipalities, so that municipalities can maintain them more effectively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Eijs, Mr Moorlag and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27926-289]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u49	I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that illegal sub- and room rental on Airbnb and other online platforms cannot be condemned as an economic offence;]] [[noting that housing fraud could generate huge profits on Airbnb, which would allow an administrative fine to be calculated;]] [[Whereas platforms such as Airbnb (whether or not unconsciously) can facilitate illegal rental;]] [[considers that this requires a tough approach, such as taking away the illegally made profits;]] [[Calls on the Government to make it possible for residential fraud on Airbnb to also be condemned as an economic offence, so that the profits of illegal sub- and room rentals on Airbnb can be taken away;]] [[Invites the Commission to examine whether it is possible to sanction online platforms such as Airbnb where illegal sub- and room rentals are detected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is difficult for municipalities to make agreements with Airbnb;]] [[noting that the municipality of Amsterdam did manage to make agreements with Airbnb on a notification obligation for holiday rentals, to automatically collect the tourist tax and to allow landlords to comply with municipal rules;]] [[considers that this should be possible for all municipalities;]] [[calls on the government to help municipalities wishing to make the same arrangements with Airbnb,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27926-290]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27926-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u50	I could explain a little about the first motion, but I still have ten seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u51	There's a lot you can say in there, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u52	In its first term, the Minister already addressed the economic crime. I understand it's hard to define a crime. A suggestion on my part is, for example, the failure to comply with the Housing Act or a housing regulation. I understand that it's also difficult for a tenant to commit such a crime, because he can make far more profits than the landlord's lost income. But why should the profits made minus the lost income not be skimmed, is my question? If a homeowner commits such a crime, there is no loss of income at all, I would think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u53	Then Mr Kops of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. She has a lot of attention for the upcoming registration system. That's good. Of course, that doesn't change the fact that it should have been there a long time ago, because in the meantime, more and more people are getting the brunt of rogue landlords and illegal rental on Airbnb. Mrs Beckerman has just tabled a motion on missing addresses on the platforms. I also have a motion on that point. It goes like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Airbnb does not provide and refuses to provide any addresses with the ads;]] [[Whereas this makes it difficult to trace and address malicious landlords;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Airbnb mentions the addresses of the ads or a registration number of which the municipality knows the corresponding address,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27926-292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u56	Mr Ronnes from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u57	Thank you, Mr President, for replying to the Minister in the first term. In any case, it is good to see that the Minister is going to work on the registration system, which can be a basis under the maintenance and control of Airbnb. Still, there's one thing left. The Minister has indicated that she is going to check that legally, but I would like to give it to you by way of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the large increase in tourist rental of housing, as facilitated by, among others, Airbnb, not only leads to the removal of living space but also to nuisances, reduction of livingability and the fragmentation of social cohesion;]] [[Whereas foreign cities such as San Francisco have prohibited the rental of entire houses for less than 30 days via websites such as Airbnb and this has led to successful results;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether a prohibition by municipalities to rent entire houses for less than 30 days through websites such as Airbnb can be applied meaningfully, while allowing municipalities to grant exemptions for specific areas, and to inform the Court thereof promptly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. file/27926]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u59	The last speaker from the Chamber, Mrs van Eijs, waived her speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u60	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u61	Mr President, thank you very much. Before I comment on the seven motions, very briefly the following. Mrs Beckerman, who is not present at the moment, thought she was missing the holy fire in me. I'd like to make that right. It must be my partly Swedish origin that I have a somewhat cold-blooded look. But on the contrary, I am very motivated to resolve this in a good way and to steer it in the right direction. Another question, that of Mr Moorlag on the exchange of information, I would like to focus a little more. He compared it to the data exchange of banks. He said that it's well arranged and easy, that you can just force it, and that's why it should be easy here too. It is good to note that this is therefore also regulated at European level. A European agreement has been made, the so-called Common Reporting Standard. It is indeed interesting that Mr Moorlag refers to this, because that could, as far as I am concerned, be the starting point in the discussion that I and hopefully other Member States would like to have with the European Commission. If you want something with the platforms that is the level at which you have to arrange it, because it is also about free movement. The question raised by Mr Ronnes of the CDA in a motion is the following: could what was arranged in San Francisco possibly be possible here? I shall therefore return to the motions for resolutions. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the motions. The first motion, the one in part No. 287, belonged to Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party. Actually, I read his motion like this: he wants to be in the motion in a shorter period of time, literally three months, and he just knows where we stand. I'd like to do that. I would like to address the question of where we stand with the municipal platforms, mention the substantive issues and record them in a letter to the Chamber. I could accept the motion in that respect, if Mr Moorlag thinks that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u62	If the motion is taken over, I'll rescind her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u63	Oh, that's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u64	Thank you, and the promise stands. The motion in part No. 288 by Mrs Beckerman c.s. actually calls for a study on various themes. I think that's actually what we're doing. The motion ends with the question of whether, for example, a registration number could be given as an alternative to the address. That will be reflected in Mr Kops' motion. How can we exchange information? If I can put it that way, I just said to Mr Moorlag that we need to settle a number of things together in Brussels, and I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the House. The third motion, in part No. 289, by Mr Smulders and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on Actually, that's what you're asking for. It calls for cooperation and the imposition of an obligation in Europe and at European level. I have just said that I, together with my colleague from EZK, would like to explore the possibilities and, indeed, in Brussels, to see what and how that should be reflected in European directives. So in other words, judge Room. Then I come to the motion on part No. 290 by Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Beckerman. That motion actually consists of two parts. The first part is the investigation of the economic crime. A motion from the SP and the VVD has already been tabled and adopted on this subject at an earlier stage. I have just said that the stories of those who do the illegal trade are also possible under the current circumstances. In the second part of the motion is requested to examine whether you can sanction platforms. That is actually part of the discussion that will also take place at European level. I promised I'd be willing to do that. The motion therefore sees two things, of which I have already addressed the first part, because research shows that it is already possible, and the second part has promised. With that explanation, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the House. The motion in part No. 291, also by Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Beckerman, calls on the government to help municipalities. I have just said that the municipalities are now working with each other and also with BZK. I do not want to say that all the other municipalities should necessarily take over what Amsterdam has done and do so in exactly the same way. That is why I just said that we are working on a convention for municipalities, so that they can make their own choices within them and give them their own content, but can also learn from others and not all of them have to come up with their own ideas. With that explanation, I would like to give "judge chamber" to the motion. The same applies to Mr Kops' motion on item No. 292, because I just said that a registration number in my view meets the problem of addresses. I am not in favour of publishing the addresses for another reason, but I am in favour of the municipality having those addresses. The second part of the end of the motion leaves that space open, so as far as I'm concerned, she gets "judge Chamber." Finally, the Ronnes motion in part No. 293. Let me come back to the point of San Francisco, because that is the example Mr Ronnes cites. I understand that there is no total ban in San Francisco either, but that rental is allowed under conditions there. So it's kind of the opposite. I told you, cities sometimes have their own way of thinking. In Amsterdam, for example, we are talking about the number of people. Sometimes it's about the number of square meters. So there are different ways. In my view, Mr Ronnes's proposal is already possible. You can already make those terms. To answer the question just now: I think that a total ban would not be legally sustainable, because that is quite a breach of the space that owners have to deal with their own property. But I can take a closer look at that. I could take that with me, I could say to Mr Ronnes, in the letter I just promised in response to the Moorlag motion, which was still there at the time. Mr. Chairman. I hope that makes me...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u65	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u66	Yes, I do not know if my reaction to Mr Ronnes might lead to another wish. If he maintains his motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u67	That's what he seems to be doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u68	...I don't have much trouble with that either, but I'd like to take it with me in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u69	I'd like to be clear with you, Mr. Ronnes, by the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u70	I understand "judge chamber," and I'm gonna take a look at what I'm doing with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u71	There was a slight hope in my vote that Mr Ronnes no longer felt that the motion was necessary. I can still do that, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u72	But the motion is now "judge chamber," I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u73	Yes, because of course you want to have a judgment from me. I've just given six motions of "judge chamber," then even the seventh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u74	There's no sea too high for you today. Clear. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-29.u75	On Tuesday we shall vote on the seven motions for resolutions. Thank you to the Minister for her presence this evening.
