ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Proposal for a Law of Members Bergkamp, Van den Hul and Özütok amending the General Law on Equal Treatment to clarify the prohibition of unauthorized discrimination on grounds of sex, Section 34650. I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in the defence of their initiative proposal in trade union K by Youri Rijkhoff, policy officer of the D66 group, Anjel Punte, policy officer of the PvdA group, Jaap van der Heijden, policy officer of the GroenLinks Group and Marije Graven, official of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term has already been. Today we are discussing first-term and second-term responses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the spokesmen for the time and attention they have given to our legislative proposal, first in writing and three weeks ago in the first term. Before I start our response, I want to thank more people. The President has just thanked our policy supporters, and that is quite right, but there are other people who have helped us with the proposal. First of all, this is Elise van Zeeland, who has been very involved in the drafting of this bill, Bureau of Legislation, which has helped us to put the legal points on the i, as well as the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, which has advised us. I would also like to thank a special D66 member. He's done a lot in the background. The fact that we are now at the forefront of our proposal is very much thanks to him. Mr President, on the question of the answer itself. We have chosen to speak to all three. We will, of course, answer all the questions as best we can. First of all, I will include you in the purpose of the law, the scope, the added value, the legal-technical aspects and the legal impact. My colleague, Mr van den Hul, will then comment on the social added value of our proposal in the light of the emancipation of transgender persons and intersex persons. Finally, Mr Özütok will answer the questions raised about international developments, national policies and the added value of our proposal in terms of discrimination in practice. So let me start with the legal questions. I've got three cubes. The first block is about the purpose of the law, which means our law and not, the context, and I go into the questions that have been asked about sexual orientation. A number of specific questions have then been asked. My second block is about the design of the law, separate grounds or not, the legal system, definition of the grounds and the citation title. The third block is about the consequences of the law. Questions have been asked about health research, preferred policies and inner experience and objectivability. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my first block. The General Law on Equal Treatment provides further details on Article 1 of our Constitution. I am therefore pleased that all the spokesmen were perhaps somewhat triggered by an interruption last time, that discrimination should not be tolerated, even when it takes place on the basis of gender expression, gender identity and gender characteristics. The questions raised by the political groups concern in particular whether a law is the best instrument for achieving what we want to achieve. These questions were asked by Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Van der Molen and Mr Beertema. We have also been asked what the added value of our legislative proposal is, because the legal protection we have in mind would already be provided on the basis of current case law. I am once again looking at Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Van der Molen. We have also been asked whether the legal consequences do not go much further than what we are trying to achieve. That question was asked by Mr Bishop, Mr Beertema and Mr Van der Molen. Let me begin with a few reassuring words in the direction of Mr Bishop. That's what I do with all the seriousness. The initiators are not part of a secret society whose aim is to blur the differences between women and men. Neither do we have a hidden agenda of three to undermine the basic principles in our society, as the fact that in nature distinguishes almost every kind of males and females. But that same biological knowledge also teaches us that there are multiple variations or that people can have the deep inner experience to belong to the opposite sex. This is also accompanied by the observation that what we call masculine or feminine, whether it is about appearance, behavior or clothing, is mostly normative in nature. We all know now that if you deviate from the average, you are susceptible to discrimination. Our law is precisely inclusive and recognises the biological reality, which knows more variation. We do not only recognise this reality; we also want to protect it explicitly. We are concerned that transgender persons, intersex persons and anyone who does not comply with the standard image of women or men have and enjoy the same fundamental rights as another. We're not taking anything from anyone. We just want to make it clear that protection against discrimination based on sex also concerns gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics. Or, as Mrs Ploumen said so beautifully, you will not be less respected if we respect someone else more. I think it is very important to clarify this at the beginning of the debate. Again, we do not want to destroy or fade the basic principles of society and biology, and it is not that we do not want to acknowledge them. All we're saying is that gender is more than just the standard image of woman or man. We have also been asked what the added value of our bill is and what we are doing it for. The authors have also written earlier that we expect and believe that our proposal will increase awareness and legal certainty. Let me begin with the subject of awareness. By explicitly including the terms "sex characteristics," "gender expression" and "gender identity" in the law, we recognise the people who are dealing with these kinds of aspects. It's an acknowledgment, but it helps the people we're talking about, too, that they recognize themselves in the law. This also makes it clear to standard recipients that Mr Sjoerdsma mentioned that terrible term the last time; those who provide goods and services covered by the AWGB are those who know that there should be no doubt that discrimination based on gender identity, gender expression and gender traits is covered by the AWGB. My colleague, Kirsten van den Hul, is going to go into detail later. So I would like to leave it at that in order to devote a little more time and attention to the issue of legal certainty. We want to remove any doubt as to whether someone at the college can ask to determine whether there is unjustified discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression or whether they can successfully bring a case before civil courts. A number of people have reported to the College and the College has also considered that these cases were admissible, but this does not lead to the general principle that, in the case of these aspects, the AWGB can be invoked in all cases. Let me explain this a little bit more. No matter how valuable the judgments of the College are, it is not a question of case law in strictly legal terms. We have not been able to discover in the Netherlands cases in which a judge has made a ruling on the AWGB with regard to the aspects that I have already mentioned a few times. In addition, in 1996 there was one judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities on transsexuality. I say this in order to point out that there is no great deal of case law. Let us not forget that the College of Human Rights has also asked for this. As early as 2013, in its annual report, the College actually indicated that it would act urgently, as inclusion of these grounds increases legal protection. That is what we are doing with this proposal: clarifying the law so that it is clear to everyone and so that everyone knows that the law is binding on these aspects. This will increase legal certainty. As Mrs Ploumen said, the law is based on legislation. That is exactly what the proposers intend to do. Mr. Chairman. Many questions have been asked about the context of the bill. I know you normally have to start with what your law is based on, but given the discussion last week, I also think it is important to make clear to those who may still have doubts what our law does not mean. Increasing awareness and legal certainty will not result in an obligation for schools to introduce gender-neutral toilets. We declare the terms "ladies" and "gentlemen" not prohibited in public space. We do not arrange for clothes to no longer be offered in the categories 'boys' and 'girls', as I say to reassure Mr Bishop. We certainly do not want to deny the existence of women and men. I have said that a few times, but I think that is very important. For the record, our bill is not about realizing "the third sex," i.e. the possibility of incorporating an X. I say this in connection with the ruling of the judge in Roermond, on which a number of questions have been put by Mrs Ploumen and Mr Jasper van Dijk. This is separate from our bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	I am deeply moved by the deep emotion with my well-being as the speaker's words show. She suspects I'm detecting secret conspiracy theories somewhere. She's worried that I'm worried, like she just said. That kind of emotion isn't part of it. I just tried to keep a business story. I appreciate you trying to reassure me, but that is not necessary. Please confine yourself to the business answer of the questions. That's, I think, a better way to operate. I see that Mr Sjoerdsma would also like to interrupt, but I suggest, Mr President, that he do this via the microphone rather than, as usual, a little behind the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	I am also touched by the SGP's response to making a business contribution. That is also the purpose for which we are standing here. However, I would also like to say to the SGP as legislator that the SGP has made the point: there is much more than just no discrimination, there is a whole ideology underneath. That statement was made in the debate. We think it is important to indicate what our legislative proposal is about and what it is not about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	I didn't think a follow-up question was necessary, but still. It's just a fact, isn't it? It has nothing to do with a conspiracy or anything. I have explicitly referred to the Yogyakarta Principles. I'd like you to read that. Then you will see that the terminology of those reports and recommendations is simply reflected in the bill. Then you shouldn't be talking about conspiracies. There is simply a different pattern of thinking than that under the current legislation. So let's just admit it. Fair play is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	Fair play is also: saying that we do not do this because of a certain ideology. We are doing this on the basis of the genuine ambition to tackle inequality and discrimination. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say the following to Mr Beertema. He mentioned the example from America and the discussion about it. Apart from the fact that this is separate from our own initiative law, I think it is important to point out from the authors that we think it is important that there is just a debate on all the issues that are at stake in society. So I share that with Mr Beertema. Mr. Chairman. Then what does our bill focus on? The bill states that gender discrimination is not only reflected in a different treatment of women vis-à-vis men. Mrs Buitenweg made a comment about this last time. It can also play between women and men. It is also, of course, a question of whether or not this is part of our legislative proposal, and how masculine or how feminine you are and whether or not these different expressions and differences of opinion are respected. We ask for attention to those who are biologically one but feel the other, or those who are biologically both, and who want to be recognized as such. We don't just do that. There's a social problem. As soon as you don't fit into the picture, you run the risk of going wrong and for example you're denied a job. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius gave a number of striking examples in her contribution. I thought that Mr Van der Molen also gave a striking example, that of Foekje Dillema. I know her story, and that's very touching, about the struggle and how she's handled it. Because what could she run, and how did we deal with her talent? I say that with some emotion. I hope that we may be able to do her some justice in this debate, which is why I like this. So I would like to thank Mr Van der Molen for this example. We also want protection to apply when it comes to one's gender identity, gender expression and gender traits. With this proposal, we want to raise this above all doubt. A number of questions have been asked about sexual orientation. Why didn't the proposers choose to take gay and straight off and propose to talk about sexual orientation from now on? That question has been asked, among other things, by Mrs Buitenweg. An amendment has also been tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk. The authors of the initiative proposal deliberately chose not to do so. Gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression are separate from one's sexual orientation. This also requires a different analysis and justification. I say this in the direction of Mr Bishop, who asked a question about polyamorous relationships, because I cannot see the connection between his question and the present legislative proposal. An adjustment of the AWGB leads to a certain consideration, a certain motivation, and we have chosen this demarcation. Of course, I wonder what appreciation the Minister will give on behalf of the cabinet of the amendment. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to go to the second block about the design of the law. Some questions have been asked about that. I have just addressed the added value and I have tried to remove some ambiguity, but it is good to discuss the legal system. For example, Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius asked why gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics were not chosen as separate grounds. To be honest, I thought that Mrs Buitenweg already illustrated this in her contribution on the basis of an example. Suppose your employer told you to wear a dress and you don't want to because you don't feel like a woman. Do you have to go to the college to appeal on the basis of gender expression or sex? That is also what the College of Human Rights has advised: do not do so, because there may be problems of interpretation. We have therefore made this assessment. I think it might contribute something to visibility, but we think it is important that the Human Rights College, which has to work with it for a very large part, should be able to work with it. That's why we didn't choose it. Questions have also been asked about the effects we have chosen. Does it fit within the legal system? That is what Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Beertema and Mr Bishop asked. They share the concern of the Council of State that what we do differs from the legal system. I must say that we, as proposers, were a little surprised by the comment of the Council of State, because as early as 2005 there was an explication in the AWGB. That is Article 1 (2): "Direct discrimination based on sex is also understood to mean discrimination based on pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood." So from 2005 onwards, it has already been chosen to give an explicitation in the law of a particular subject. That proposal came through, otherwise it wouldn't be in the law. Nor has the Council of State made any comment that it would not fit within the legal system. That is our response to the questions that have been asked. In addition, citizens are supposed to know the law, but of course we are not all lawyers. So that you sometimes give an explicitation, we honestly don't think that weird either. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, it does not fit into the legal system to provide exhaustive definitions of grounds for discrimination. I would also point out that, for example, there is no definition in the law of the concept of'sex', of what men and women are. It also seems very difficult to describe that. Having said that, however, I would like to point out that in the explanatory memorandum in a footnote, footnote 26, we have provided a definition of gender identity and expression. Genderidity is your inner experience, how you feel inside. Gender expression is how you turn that off. That's basically what it's all about. I will not mention the whole definition contained in the footnote. But we thought it was important to include a form of definition, but not in the law. That is just not common and would also deviate from the legal system. In addition, Ms Van der Graaf asked whether the concepts of "gender identity," "gender expression" and "sex characteristics" were sufficiently clear. I would like to stress that the concepts have already been introduced. The Human Rights College has already made a number of statements on the concepts of "gender identity" and "gender expression." The judges also do that. Then it is not so much about the AWGB with those aspects. However, this terminology is already used in asylum and family matters, even at regular intervals. For example, look at the judge's ruling in Roermond. We therefore have no reason to doubt that the College, the judges, would not be able to ignore these terms. Of course, we also discussed this with interest organisations such as Transgender Network Netherlands, the Dutch Network Intersex/DSD and COC. The terminology is of course known to them and quite well to their supporters. Of course there is still something to gain in communication. When I talk about the standard addressees, I think that information is very important. One of the aims of our law is therefore to increase that awareness. What I like very much is that the National Association Against Discrimination, responsible for anti-discrimination provisions, has said that it will provide information and communication if that law is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you for this explanation. It's very clear to me. My question was not on the target group itself. There will be a clear message for that. For judges, too, I understand from what you yourself say. But one purpose of the law is that it is equally clear for the rest of society. Could you describe that a little bit more? I understand that it is very clear within the COC, the interest groups and their supporters. But what about the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	That is a very fair question. I think that Mrs Van der Graaf shows exactly where the fame is and where there really is something to win. Of course, it was also one of the aims of our law to increase awareness of the term "gender identity," "gender expression" and "sexual characteristics." It is very nice that the association that deals with anti-discrimination provisions, which I have just given to the European Parliament, has really explicitly indicated to us that it is going to provide information. Of course, you have the college's websites. Of course, you have the interest groups themselves. So there is certainly something to win there. I think we should, too. It is also one of our objectives of our law to increase awareness. Mr Bishop has asked questions about the citation title of our bill. Does the bill only apply to transgender persons and intersex persons and no further? Mr Bishop is right about that. That's right. I must say, however, that the citation title covers a very large part of the load. I'll just mention it all neatly. The law is called: amendment of the General Law on equal treatment in order to specify the prohibition of unauthorized discrimination on grounds of sex. But the citation title is: Law clarification legal status transgender persons and intersex persons. It was asked whether that doesn't give us a bit of uncertainty. Does it cover the cargo? It covers a very large part of the cargo, only gender expression is not included. After all, we have chosen to create a citation title, because we are not the first to amend this law and we assume that there will be more amendments. Then it is very informative when a citation title covers a large part of the load. Mr Bishop asked whether this would not lead to legal problems of interpretation. That is not the case, because a citation title has only an informative character. Mr Beertema perhaps considered the wider scope to be problematic. How do we know who does and doesn't fall under the law? Mr Bertema also gave an example of 40 alternative gender pronouns. When preparing for the answers to the questions we saw a comparison with Facebook. If you wanted to sign up for Facebook a while ago, you had to choose from a list that didn't apply to everyone. Facebook has stopped saying: we make it a free field; you can give yourself a name and then you get access to Facebook. That is also what we want with our law. Whatever name you give yourself or someone else your gender: you simply fall under the General Equal Treatment Act. Mr. President, I'm fine. I'm already working on block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	Very nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr Van der Molen has asked a question about general health research, for example on cervical cancer. Let me first say what the formal situation is with general population surveys, such as cervical cancer. This research is carried out by the government, namely by the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment. So it's run by the government. This does not fall within the scope of the AWGB. It is not seen as a public service as described in Article 7 of the AWGB. However, the authors felt that a comment should be made in the note on this subject. I must say that when I read it back, I could honestly imagine that Mr Van der Molen had questions about it and that he interpreted it the way he interpreted it. That is also the beauty of legal treatment: then you can explain it further. How did the proposers intend it? I agree with Mr Van der Molen that common sense and common sense are very important in these things. Whatever research you're going to do, we hope that people will be taken when they meet the requirements, so that they can come forward if anything is on them as well. This is not something that causes our law, but it is something that we hope will be observed from a common sense. Suppose a transman, registered as a man with a uterus, is reporting for cervical cancer research. From a common sense you would say: he can participate. That's what we meant. No more and no less. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked, among others by Mr Van der Molen and the Christian Union, whether you can make a justified distinction between men and women. The answer to that is yes. It's okay now. Our law doesn't change that. There is a legal basis to give priority to a woman or a man, the so-called preferred policy, when filling out a vacancy. This is permitted under Article 2 (3) of the AWGB. This possibility also exists for ethnic groups. The passage has been made on the basis of a long history, European statements and case law. Mr Van der Molen, as spokesperson for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, asked a question about more women in science: can you do that? Yes. Mr Bishop also asked a question about: could there still be a preferred policy for women at the top of the business world? Oh, yeah. Again, research, whether you call it women or men, you can just do it. Preferred policy is also allowed. Our law doesn't change that. That is already the case and when our law is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	I have one question or comment to make. I want to see if the proposers can answer them, or perhaps the minister. Of the preferred policy, the author said: it is possible for women or men. In my opinion, this is only possible for women, because there is a historical inequality. But perhaps that is something that can be clarified and that is often a discussion point. Years ago, the Netherlands had the rule that it should be both men and women. Then the men suddenly came to the farthest end, and turned out to take advantage of it, and not the women. I think the agreement was then made that it is only for that group for which there is a historical inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	That question looks a little more broadly at our proposal. I think it is very good that the Minister should return to that point. I would like to point out that the opportunities that exist have to do with a long history of labour market backwardness and disadvantage. It is a fair question, but it is a little outside our own initiative law. It is good if the Minister reflects on that, or perhaps even more: just gives an answer. Mr. Chairman. Then the question was asked as to whether direct discrimination based on sex is possible on the basis of the AWGB. Article 5 (3) gives that possibility. To give you an example: there will be a series about Princess Beatrix, former Queen Beatrix. Is it okay to cast on a woman? Yeah, you can. And when it comes to Prince Bernhard, you can cast on a man. So that doesn't change our bill. That's already there. And if our bill were to be passed, it's okay. This is to take away all the misunderstandings. Mr. Chairman. With one last question that has been asked, I would like a little more detail. That is what is needed. Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Van der Graaf asked how the college can judge on the basis of a feeling. How is gender identity, which is about the inner conviction, to be objectively established? What I can say about that is quadruple and perhaps even five-sided. First of all, the College has brought several cases to a successful conclusion. There were several cases admissible and the College could reach a conclusion on the basis of the concept of "genderidity'. The second is that in our contacts with the college it has also been made clear that people do not go lightly to a college with a complaint. The third point is: how does such a process work now? Someone has the experience or believes that there is an unjustified distinction based on gender identity, goes to the college and lodges a complaint. Then I would like to remind Article 10 of the AWGB that someone has to put forward facts in law. Someone should not just say that he has been discriminated against on the basis of his gender identity. There's got to be a story, a background. Someone can bring in objectivable elements, as you can say, for example, since the transgender law, that your gender is registered differently, according to your gender identity. Next, the defendant must make it plausible that there is no unauthorized distinction, which must therefore also have a story and be able to justify it. For example, he could say that he never noticed it in someone's gender expression, that he never noticed it in working conversations. Then, of course, a college is going to quibble and weigh and come to a judgment based on the input that there is. I also think it is important to say that the College uses the term'self-identification'. So you're assuming what you're saying. So when I say I'm Catholic, they're not gonna ask which church I'm registered at and to prove it. This also applies to gender identity. There's no question of your birth certificate. The debate that has arisen, I would like to take a look at Mr Van der Molen's report, was that this is easier at race or age, because it is objective. That is doubtful, because in the end it's not about what you feel inside or what you look like and whether that's easier or harder. In the end, it is a question of whether the person who has lodged a complaint can justify a claim that there has been unjustified discrimination. The same goes for the defendant. He's got to be able to report that, too. And sometimes things seem very easy. There was a ruling from the college on discrimination by age the other day. Then you think that's crazy-and-ready after all. That was rejected because there were insufficient objective grounds. So in cases like this, it's always one story to another, one word to another. But both parties can bring in objectivable elements. I must also say that the College has always been able to reach a decision. I think it is important to describe this in more detail but to leave it at that. For I, as a legislator, fit some distance because I think it is important that, of course, the judge in individual situations, looking at all circumstances, should be able to reach a judgment. Mr President, that is my side of the story, as I wanted to say. But we have one story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul, co-initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bergkamp has just mentioned in particular the legal aspects of our initiative law. I will address the social significance of our law in my reply. I will also consider what results we hope to achieve. Mr. Chairman. If this bill doesn't want to change anything material, what is its added value? Are we talking here merely about a symbolic law? That is what Mr Jasper van Dijk asked. Mrs Van der Graaf, among others, also asked about the added value of this law. What results do we expect? That's what Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius asked. And Mrs Van der Graaf wanted to know how we can now know whether this bill can actually combat discrimination against transgender persons and intersex persons. First of all, I would like to say that, fortunately, the world is not strictly legal. Communication takes place mainly at a social level. Mr Ploumen was able to put it nicely by saying that there is still so much more to it than the code of conduct. There is the social reality of every day. Distinction, whether based on one's gender characteristics, gender expression or gender identity, is not allowed in the Netherlands. What the authors of this law want is for this to live in people's minds and hearts. It is our ambition that people should address each other, also in more formal terminology, the social legal aspects of the AWGB. That people and organisations are going to act on the basis of common sense that Mr Bergkamp has just talked about several times. That parents and doctors do not feel the possible pressure to proceed to so-called corrective surgery. That service providers think about the approach of people and that employers think along with their employees, so that people can be themselves. For, as Mr Van der Molen was so aptly able to say, in a society where people can be themselves talents come to development and are better exploited. But if we want to do this, we have to do something. That is an important step is this law. Because it's a signal. We make it clear what our position is as a legislator. A standard is set for society because we as a society have a problem. Mr Özütok will explain this further. It is precisely this combination, the establishment of a standard by increasing awareness and legal certainty, that gives this law a meaning. Or, to quote Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, to give the people who are involved an important signal: you are not on your own. Mr. Chairman. How are we gonna do that? As Mr Bergkamp pointed out, we are increasing the awareness. This is particularly important for the group concerned with prohibited discrimination. By including it in the AWGB, they know right away that this is not allowed. But there's more. Our legislative proposal also makes this clear to those who supply goods and services. The school director, the owner of a sports club, the employer, the garage employee, the messenger and so on. They are referred to in the legislative proposal. It becomes clear not only to the target group itself and to standard recipients, but also to students who study equal treatment legislation, to anti-discrimination provisions, to our representatives of the people, to journalists who write about this proposal, to those who read articles and to those who discuss this initiative on social media. So the awareness will also be increased outside the target group itself, I repeat towards Mrs Van der Graaf. Mr Bergkamp has already explained the value of the law when it comes to increasing legal certainty. I would like to add something to that. We note with Mr Bishop that the number of cases brought before the College and the courts involving a person's gender characteristics, gender identity or gender expression is very small. There's a reason. That is not why this group is not discriminated against, as the studies and reports on the social position of transgender persons and intersex persons have shown. So there's something else going on: this group experiences a threshold to report, possibly because they're not sure if the law applies to them, because they're afraid of the consequences if their employer knew they had an intersex condition, because they're going to find it normal that the difficult choices they had to make in their lives lead to exclusion and marginalisation. See inter alia the report of the Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner. By explicitly adding three terms to the AWGB, we want to give support to a group of people in order to remain free from discrimination and to benefit from fundamental fundamental rights in force, just like everyone else. I am referring here to legal certainty, to public awareness, but also to the social significance that has just been mentioned. It will have an impact on how people feel free to come out of the closet, to be visible themselves and to stand up for their own rights. Because there is a potential problem that people have to deal with and which our law can make a difference. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bergkamp has just commented on what our law is and is not about. Mr Jasper van Dijk has also raised a number of points that our law is not about. For example, he rightly states that the bill will not create more jobs for transgenderers. However, the explicit designation of the three categories in the law may lead to the need for more information about transgender persons and intersex persons and thus to more knowledge, understanding and tolerance. In the long run, this can lead to a better labour market position. We are well aware that we are not there with only a change of law. That is why we welcome the measures announced by the government to improve the position of transgender persons and intersex individuals. Our proposal is therefore part of the wider framework of measures and has added value. With Mr Jasper van Dijk we also note that growing the waiting lists for transgender persons is worrying. This law will not change that. However, the present legislative amendment is a support to indicate to the target group that we do not dismiss their desire to be fully or partially recognised in the opposite sex as a fashion grill, as a phenomenon that blows over again if we simply deny it. No, just like homosexuality, transsexuality has always been there and there will always be people born who are not biologically unambiguous men or women. With our law, we state that they belong as well as anyone else. Moreover, we would also like to hear the Government's answers to Mr Jasper van Dijk's questions on transgender care, labour market discrimination and stigmatisation. But it is precisely in order to counter this stigmatisation that we believe that our law can at least help to reduce it by allowing people to talk to each other about it and, more importantly, to talk to each other about it. My co-sponsor will go into the enforcement aspects further. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Molen wondered how the finding that gender expression is increasingly varied relates to the emphasis on the importance of women's empathy which is also expressed by the parties who submitted this proposal. I would like to take Mr Van der Molen into account in my reasoning that these are in fact mutually exclusive. Can you appear at work as a woman in pants or as a man in a skirt? It just came up. The answer is yes. If there's no objective reason why it bothers someone in the performance of her or his work, then I wouldn't know why not. The AWGB protects that, even without changing the law. But I can imagine that the announcement that a woman appears in a pants at work would cause a lot less eyebrows to frown than a man in a skirt. This reflects the development that our society has experienced in recent decades, in which women wearing garments like a pantsuit, which was mainly associated with men less than a century ago, can count on increasing social acceptance. The same applies to training and social functions. I'm just calling it MPs. By giving people the space to behave, dress and express as they wish, we are promoting their emancipation. Compliance with average stereotypes limits people and leads to discrimination against those who oppose it. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that in my first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok, co-initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my reply, I will address the social problem that is currently taking place. I will go into the sometimes terrible practice that transgenders and intersex persons are currently dealing with and the definitions and examples of direct and indirect discrimination. Finally, I would like to say something about the enforcement and enforcement of the AWGB. Mr. Chairman. The social problem, the disadvantage that people face in practice, is the reason why we have created this initiative law. To remedy this problem, of course, several actions are needed, but adjusting the AWGB is an important part of this. Over the years, as the Netherlands, we have been repeatedly called upon by many organisations to adapt equal treatment legislation. For example, the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have been calling on the Netherlands since 2009 to better safeguard the position of transgenders and intersex individuals, requiring legal anchoring of protection. National organisations have also been calling on the Dutch government to amend legislation for years. The College of Human Rights, the COC, the Transgender Network Netherlands, the Dutch Network Intersex/DSD and the Social Economic Council have all advocated an adaptation of the AWGB. They argue for this because there are people who face discrimination in practice, in the workplace, in the labour market, in care or in a clothing store. So there really is a problem. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the question of how big the group of transgenders and intersex subjects is. I noticed that this sometimes led to confusion in the debate. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau estimated that around 85,000 intersex individuals lived in the Netherlands in 2014. It is estimated from the same planning agency that more than 48,000 transgender persons lived in the Netherlands in 2012. These numbers have already been referred to together correspond to a population of a city the size of Zoetermeer. Then there are the reports, complaints and reports. In the Netherlands' anti-discrimination provisions, the number of reports of discrimination based on sex increased from 203 in 2016 to 477 in 2017. That's an increase of over 100%. In more than one in every ten cases, this concerns discrimination against transgender persons. Police also report that the discrimination incidents increased in 2017 on the basis of sex. In three of the four recorded incidents in 2017, the victim was either a transgender person or was considered as such. The Human Rights College received sixteen complaints in 2017. Numbers can sometimes be so abstract and anonymous. Let it be borne in mind that every report is terrible for the person himself. I'd like to make it a little more tangible. What is this unequal treatment that people run into? This year someone was told by the employer that she or he had to take leave days for interventions related to the transition. The detector was put under pressure, because there would only be a cosmetic procedure. Another reporter was told that her or his employer would resign if the transition was continued. You can't imagine it: dismissal, just because of who you are. What are we talking about? Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma presented the forms of direct and indirect distinction and asked for examples of this distinction for transgender persons. Honor is a direct distinction when a person is treated differently because of personal characteristics or characteristics. When a person is treated differently only because he or she is a transgender person, there is a direct distinction. As initiators, we are reluctant to mention a fictional case of indirect discrimination, because it may be too directing towards our judiciary. According to the AWGB, there is no indirect distinction where that distinction is objectively justified by a legitimate purpose and the means of achieving that objective are appropriate and necessary. The College shall assess whether there is objective justice in cases of indirect discrimination. However, there are examples of the College's judgements on cases of indirect discrimination. In the following case, indirect discrimination against a trans-woman is involved. It was a person who had successfully completed a PhD in political science and received a certificate for that purpose. At that time, however, she was still registered as a man and had a different first name. The university refused to issue a new certificate. The university used as a rule that a certificate is issued only once. That's it. Under no circumstances is there an exception to this rule. The College considered that the university did not make a direct distinction on the basis of sex by applying this rule, as this rule applies to everyone. At the same time, the College considered that, by applying this rule, the university had made indirect distinctions against the applicant on the basis of sex. Transgendering is particularly affected by this rule. By not allowing them an exception to this rule, they are unable to allow the gender change in their personal and business life to work in its entirety. Non-transgender persons do not have this disadvantage. On this basis, the College concluded that the university made indirect gender-based distinctions against the transwoman by refusing to issue her a new certificate with its current first names. The College also found no objective justification for the distinction, so indirect distinction is not allowed. For the gourmets among you: this is about judgment No. 2010-175. Mr. Chairman. Another point that came back several times in the debate is the Rainbow Index of ILGA-Europe and its possible increase. Among other things, Mr Sjoerdsma referred to this. It is published annually and describes the human rights situation of the Ihbti community in each country. So the index does not look at the social acceptance of the Ihbti community; it looks at laws and regulations, for example family law: can people marry whom they want? It also looks at the asylum system: is sexual orientation a basis for asylum? And equality and non-discrimination legislation. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we have been failing ever since that index was kept. Of course I must agree with Mr Sjoerdsma when he says that rising on lists is not an end in itself. But he also saw that the bags on these lists indicate that the Netherlands is being overtaken by surrounding countries in terms of its abilities and protection. The countries that are now above us are Belgium, Malta, Norway and Finland. However, they have made explicit references to gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics in their equality legislation. Finally. It was asked with a wink whether we think our law will cause an increase on this list. With the same wink I say that a listing in the top ten is in any case much more likely after possible acceptance of our bill. Mr. Chairman. Ms Ploumen and Ms Yesilgöz-Zegerius asked questions about the enforcement and enforcement of the law. This covered the role of the various inspections in combating discrimination, such as the SZW Inspection, the Education Inspectorate and the Health Care Inspectorate. In the eyes of the initiators, the College of Human Rights plays an authoritative role in compliance and enforcement. But inspections also have a role to play. It extends over several areas than just combating discrimination on grounds of sex. I hope Mrs Ploumen does not blame me for passing on her question to the government. However, we also see a major role for people among themselves. My colleague Van den Hul mentioned earlier the social legal aspects of our law. There is such a thing as self-enforcement and social enforcement in laws. Thank God, I'd like to say. Of course, the College and the inspections play a major role, but let us not forget ourselves. It is my belief that through this law we will address each other, but certainly ourselves, so that everyone in the Netherlands will understand that discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression is not allowed. Mr President, I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Glad to be here on behalf of the Cabinet, as an advisor to the Chamber on this initiative proposal to clarify the legal position of transgender and intersex individuals. The initiators and their support have brought this proposal this far and I would like to congratulate them on the effort they have made. At the beginning of my term, I would also point to the passage in the coalition agreement, which supports the initiative proposal, as part of the importance which the cabinet attaches to the ability of everyone in the Netherlands to be themselves. The cabinet therefore endorses the objectives of the initiative proposal. National and international research shows that both intersex and transgender individuals are often confronted with negative stereotyping, resulting in exclusion, bullying and discrimination. The investigation also shows that such discrimination is rarely reported. At present, the ban on discrimination based on gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics should be included in the ban on gender discrimination. A clarification of the concept of "sex," which covers more than just male or female, can contribute to a greater awareness of the prohibition among both parties concerned, i.e. transgender and intersex persons, as well as to the standard addressees. The initiative proposal also clarifies whether a person who, in terms of gender identity, gender expression or gender characteristics, falls outside the traditional male/female classification and cannot fall back on a judgment of the Human Rights College on a similar case, should or should not be protected on the basis of equal treatment legislation. Following the adoption of this own-initiative proposal, the answer would be a clear yes, thereby promoting legal certainty. I can add the positive attitude of the cabinet to this proposal to the debate. I would like to reply to the questions that have been put to the cabinet. I am doing this on behalf of my colleague, Mr Van Engelshoven, as far as questions lie on her property. First of all, a question from Mr Van der Molen about the role of the cabinet. He asked: have the initiators now done the work that the cabinet has left behind? The previous cabinet has carried out an investigation into whether and if so, how the prohibition of discrimination based on gender identity and gender expression could be implemented in the General Law on equal treatment. As a result of the exploration, the intention was to proceed towards a legislative change. In view of the fact that three groups in your Chamber had the same intention, the previous cabinet left the initiative with the applicants. I have just mentioned that it is also included in the coalition agreement. This shows that there is also support for the intention in the new cabinet. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Van der Graaf have asked a question about the need to adapt other legislation. The cabinet sees no legal need to systematically adapt other legislation in response to this proposal. First of all, the effect of the General Law on equal treatment, as provided for by the proposers, can thus take the form of legal practice. Secondly, the case law on the basis of which gender identity, gender expression and gender traits are already covered by gender will in any case continue to apply to other legislation containing the discrimination ground "sex'. I would also like to stress that, as far as the cabinet is concerned, there is no exception to the reasoning a contrario in response to this proposal, so that the ground'sex' in other legislation would no longer include the grounds 'gender identity', 'gender expression' and'sex characteristics'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	I hear the Minister say that there is no legal need to amend other legislation and that there is no room for a contradiction either. It's been noted. My question is then whether the Minister of the Cabinet can confirm that there are no plans to amend legislation either. The legal necessity is not there, but there are no plans to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	I can confirm that. Precisely because we do not see the legal need and there is no risk of reasoning a contrario, we have no plans to further adapt the legislation. Then there is the question of adapting the concept of heterosexual or homosexual orientation. Questions were asked about this by Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Yesilgöz. An amendment has also been tabled by Mr Van Dijk on this point. In the AWGB, the legislator has given a specific definition of the basic "sexual orientation," i.e. heterosexual or homosexual orientation. It follows from the legal history and also from case law that lesbians and bisexuals are also covered by the protection of this ground. The reason for such a precise definition of the protective forms of sexuality was to prevent certain other forms of sexuality, e.g. pedosexuality, from falling under the protection of the AWGB. I would advise against switching to the basic "sexual orientation" in the context of this bill. That also has to do with the fact that this bill is about something else. This bill is not about the grounds for discrimination "heterosexual orientation" or "homosexual orientation" but about gender. In substance, therefore, one change has little to do with the other change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	This is a response to Mr Jasper van Dijk's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	Yes. It was a question from Mrs Yesilgöz, and Mr Van Dijk has tabled an amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	I understand that the Minister says that she agrees with the spirit of the amendment, but that she does not think that this is the right place to regulate it. May I explain the Minister's reaction in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	No. That would be a step too far at the moment. Apart from my reasoning that it does not belong here, there is also the other side, namely that the AWGB has a closed system of exceptions. If you were to broaden this, as far as I am concerned, we would first need a further study of the possible legal consequences. That intermediate step would be necessary in that case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	I can imagine that a study would take place, but I do not think that the argument that it could cover all kinds of things that we do not mean is strong. I doubt this will be the case. There are, of course, things that are simply forbidden. It does not seem to me that these things are allowed in this way. There are also cases where public order is invoked. I am pleased that it has been promised that research will be carried out, but I doubt whether the argument put forward by the Minister will really be reflected in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think it is very positive that Mrs Buitenweg says that, because that is why she indicates that research is good. It may be that she is right on this point, but I think we should first look at the legal consequences. Then it might be that Mrs Buitenweg's conclusion is correct. I'm just not ready to draw that conclusion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	Another comment by Mrs Buitenweg was about the line of current case law. It considers it remarkable, because the basic "sex" is discrimination against women in relation to men and vice versa, whereas transgender persons would be discriminated against within the group of men or the group of women. I do not think it is surprising to include situations in the protection of discrimination on grounds of sex where a person wishes to change sex or has changed sex. The case law confirms this. The current bill does this by explicating the new concepts of "gender identity," "gender expression" and "sex characteristics" under the ground "sex."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	I'm afraid I didn't express myself very well last time. In fact, I think it is also a good line of the College, as they have interpreted the ground'sex', as it may also include discrimination within the ground, i.e. between the category of women among themselves. I was only concerned that I could imagine that the present legislative proposal would provide additional legal certainty. Previously it was an interpretation of the college that I was able to follow very well and which seemed right to me, and now it is just a little more certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	With this explanation from Mrs Buitenweg, I don't think I understood her correctly. That is also what I argued in my introduction. Perhaps I could then continue with Mrs Buitenweg's question just in the time-limit for the authors, namely on the preferential treatment of women. What exactly is that about? Mrs Buitenweg is right. Under Article 2 (3) of the AWGB, preferential treatment is only possible for women or ethnic or cultural minority groups. Also for disabled people, preferential treatment is permitted by law. The legislator has allowed the preferential treatment of these groups because they have a structural social disadvantage, which is actually exactly what Mrs Buitenweg argued, which justifies this exception to the principle of equality. Mrs Ploumen asked how we could further strengthen the judgments of the College of Human Rights. She is right that these judgments are not binding, but that does not mean that they are not respected. It follows from the various annual reports of the College that, on average, the College takes 50% of the cases submitted to them until it finds that there is discrimination. These judgments shall be followed up in 75% of cases. In 2017, that was 87%; in itself, that is quite a percentage. The measures that an organisation can take are very different. It may range from apologizing to offering a contract or taking structural measures to combat discrimination, for example, adjusting the collective agreement. A settlement is sometimes made. There is actually quite a lot of compliance. Therefore, I am not considering having another public authority enforce it now. Mr President, then there are a number of questions that have to do with practice, both on the part of OCW and VWS. First of all, the significance of the legislative proposal in practice. That is a question from Mrs Yesilgöz. The proposal will, of course, first of all be perceived by the persons concerned as recognition and support. This initiative law contributes significantly to this. It increases sensitivity and awareness among employers, for example. In practice, the low employment rate is one of the biggest problems for transgender people. The Ministry of OCW therefore supports the Transgender Network Netherlands and the GenderTalent Foundation, which are working to remove precisely the thresholds that exist when finding a workplace. For example, OCW has made arrangements, including in its own organisation, to provide internships and work experience spots. Then Mrs Buitenweg asked a question about medical intervention in intersex children. She asked how much we know about its practice. That's kind of tricky. We know something about numbers in general: how often it occurs and how often it can be recognized at birth and how often it is only later. But we don't have precise information on the medical procedures. In general, however, we have the impression that doctors in the Netherlands think differently and also nuanced about the need for intervention and surgery in young children. The starting point is to postpone until the child is old enough to be able to decide for himself. I also understand that a number of university medical centres in our country, such as Nijmegen and Amsterdam, work in multidisciplinary teams of medical specialists and other specialists, who accompany children and their parents. A European study was also concluded last year, DSD Live.Disorder of Sex Development Live. which aims to evaluate and improve treatment and care for the various diseases in close collaboration with patient organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	I recognize that it is difficult to get a good idea of the extent to which this occurs. The minister says it alternates depending on the medical center and perhaps also depending on the doctor. What role does the Minister see for himself and for the government to ensure that the best interests of the child prevail and that there is no unnecessary medical intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	In my opinion, this is something of the medical profession itself, which deals with this very carefully in the Netherlands. We are, of course, aware of the statements made by the UN Children's Rights Committee and the UN Committee against Torture, which also deal with unnecessary and untimely sex-normalising operations in small children. The Dutch doctors... In fact, I have to say that the whole profession shows that it is thought very carefully, although different but still nuanced. I consider the cooperation of non-medical and medical specialists to be important. There is also European cooperation. There are 14 European DSD centres of expertise in six countries, including the Netherlands. There, questionnaires and interviews are really looking at the satisfaction of the treatments. So I think this is something for the caregivers, who have to act in accordance with their professional standards. Needless to say, unnecessary medical treatment is not part of our understanding of good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u36	I think there are two different things being said. On the one hand, it is said that it is up to the professionals to act on the basis of their knowledge, not unnecessary but really only based on medical necessity. At the same time, the Minister says that it is very much up to the doctor to intervene. Then there seems to be a certain normative or personal element in it. That is why I would ask the Minister to take another look at this and perhaps send a letter to the Chamber. Then it's about how it goes in practice, but also about what the role of the government is. If it depends very much on the person, the profession is not at present sufficiently busy to make sure that this line is in place. Then it's on the Minister's sign again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u37	Sure. I'll tell you what I know now. I'm taking this back, too, to discuss it with the VWS colleague. VWS now informs me that we do not have a complete overview of all the professional guidelines that exist with regard to the various diseases covered by the umbrella of DSD and intersex. However, we are aware of the fact that the interest groups, together with the patient organisations of all concerned and the professional group, are considering setting up a kind of broad quality standard. Perhaps that could be the right point, but I would like to say to Mrs Buitenweg and to your Chamber that we will return to that by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u38	Thank you. Where are you on answering the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u39	Well, I've got about four more. I'm pretty far, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u40	Please continue. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u41	Good. The question about the ruling of the court in Limburg was a question from Mr Van Dijk. There is indeed a ruling from the court in Limburg. There is also a ruling by the German Bundesverfassungsgericht on the registration of, as it is called, "inter/divers" in the birth register alongside the registration "man" or "woman." Both findings, i.e. both judgments, will be involved by the Commission in any further steps. We must first look at the legal and financial implications and what ICT implications this would have. We would also like to hear the views of the interest groups before reaching a decision, but Mr Van Dijk may also have seen that the government agreement states that the cabinet will endeavour to limit unnecessary gender registration where possible further. The previous cabinet has already taken steps in this respect. The cabinet will therefore develop this policy further. The Minister of OCW has the coordinating responsibility and the initiative. Mr Van Dijk also asked whether the government had any additional proposals to combat discrimination against transgender and intersex persons. The Ministry of Education has already established several partnerships with civil society organisations. They are often about social security and improving the acceptance of transgender and intersex individuals. The network mentioned above plays a role in this. They also receive financial support from the Ministry of OCW. Then there are the waiting lists in transgender care, also a question from Mr Van Dijk. Those waiting lists are running up. Significant capacity growth has been achieved at the VUmc and UMCG gender centres, but they cannot fully keep up with the strong and persistent increase in healthcare questions, which naturally results in a waiting list. And a waiting list, or at least a waiting list too long, is undesirable. I leave the professional content of the care to the care, but in general it is undesirable that the waiting lists are very long. At present, the various parties, i.e. the healthcare institutions, the professionals, the insurers and the municipalities, are working on a quality standard for this. In recent years, the VWS Ministry has taken various initiatives to bring together parties responsible for this concern, so that we can analyse what bottlenecks exist and what solutions we can choose. For example, a third centre of expertise is being discussed, more diversification of care is being looked at and how to make optimal use of existing capacity. Those are the things that run because VWS is familiar with the problem of waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u42	The problem of waiting lists and limited capacity is a very acute problem. People write us about that. We've asked questions about that, too. At what time do you expect results from the measures you mention, if you can at least answer this question? Because we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u43	I cannot say exactly at what time the US Secretary of State expects that, but I can come back to that when you give me that time. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask Mrs Ploumen about the inspections. This has just been mentioned by the initiators. The inspections also have a role to play here, of course. For example, the Education Inspectorate has a role to play in the school environment, i.e. a safe environment for children. This includes identifying and combating discriminatory behaviour in schools. Where relevant, the various inspections shall share information on risks and deficits and may also coordinate their supervisory activities. There are indeed similarities between the focus areas of the Education Inspectorate and the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate, both as regards pupils and employees. These inspections have regular consultations on this subject. There is also cooperation within the so-called Monitoring Social Domain, in which in addition to the Inspection of Education and the Inspection of Social Affairs and Employment, the Inspection of Public Health and Youth in Founding and the Inspection of Justice and Security also cooperate. So they set up their cooperation in such a way that there is optimal coordination and effectiveness in the supervision, of course with regard to limiting the supervisory burden. Mr President, I hope that I have answered the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. I shall now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators and the cabinet for the respectful, clear and convincing response in the first term. As far as that was not clear and as far as D66 was not convinced of this bill, that is all the more what we are now. The idea that this law will lead to an even more inclusive society in which the fundamental principles of non-discrimination and equality will be even more firmly anchored than they already were is crucial for our group. It is also good to know that the cabinet is in favour of this, as underlined by the Minister of the Interior, and that it is part of a much broader package, of course, to improve the position of transgender and intersex individuals. It's not just this law. Hopefully, in the near future, the other rainbow voting measures will also be passed in this Chamber. In view of the answers and the atmosphere in the Chamber, I am looking with good courage at the vote next Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u47	Thank you, Mr President. It is good that attention is paid to transgender persons and intersex individuals. That is what the authors have demonstrated with this law. All the appreciation for that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister just said that in the second term she will return to the waiting lists in the transgender care. It's an acute problem. The waiting times are enormous: sometimes more than one and a half years. That's very damaging. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the government has set clear targets for reducing these waiting times. My colleague also asked Parliament questions about this. I would like a commitment on this point. Mr. Chairman. I come to the point of sexual orientation. It is not entirely clear to me why the Minister objects to my amendment to use the term'sexual orientation', which is international practice, in the General Law on Equal Treatment. In order to avoid problems, possibly also in the future of the examination of this law, in the First Chamber, I shall table a motion which says the same thing as my amendment. If the objections remain, I can withdraw the amendment and I still have this motion. But I want a good answer from the Minister. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the term "sexual orientation" is international, but is not used in the General Law on Equal Treatment;]] [[calls on the Government to present a proposal to amend the General Law on Equal Treatment by the end of 2018 at the latest, transforming the words "hero- or homosexual orientation" into "sexual orientation,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34650-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u48	This is an important subject. I had questions about that in the first term. I was wondering whether Mr Van Dijk also considered it possible to include in the motion that, as the Minister said, the consequences of this should also be investigated. Is that the right place? In my view, we share the view that this should be clarified. It is only a question of whether that has that addition in this context or in that law. If a research aspect is added, we can hear a little more about it in the Chamber. Then we can determine with each other whether this is the right effect. At least that would please the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u49	That sounds very promising. I took a look at that, and I've been informed. A legal investigation I take a look at the Minister of Foreign Affairs is always customary when a law is made. That makes perfect sense. Because what are the legal consequences? That is why I have not put it in, but it is very good that Mrs Yeşilgöz is pointing that out to me. If the Minister insists and Mrs Yeşilgöz does, I am even prepared to consider amending my motion, provided that Mrs Yeşilgöz is included.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u50	That is a great deal for Mr Jasper van Dijk. Thank you. I now go to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I support the motion wholeheartedly. As a matter of fact, yesterday we had a debate in which Minister Grapperhaus suddenly announced a legislative proposal before we could count to five, while at first he had doubts as to whether it was necessary. When we asked if that should not be examined first, he said: yes, you always do that when you make a bill. I am therefore entirely convinced of Mr Jasper van Dijk's argument. I wholeheartedly support that argument. I would like to thank the authors very much, not only for their proposal I had already done so, but also for the way in which they responded. On a point-by-point basis, all the questions that lived in the Chamber have been examined and provided with a good answer. Indeed, it is a question of human rights. It is not about ideology but about human rights and ensuring that they are anchored for everyone and that everyone can appeal to them. It has been demonstrated what the social and legal need of this bill is. I can only hope that it passes quickly. This is not the final part, but part of a broader agenda of emancipation and equal treatment for all. This will be an important part of that. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you. Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u53	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the authors for their comprehensive answer. I have to say, you look good in trade-K. I do not rule on party politics and such. This is purely on an individual basis. Thank you for the explanation. I told you in my first term that being attacked on who you are, verbally or physically, or excluded from your identity, is one of the most profound things a human being can experience. I also think it's really one of the most lonely things. If this proposal can contribute in any way to people seeing what we stand for together and that it is illegal to distinguish on any aspect you bring forward three very relevant aspects, we are in favour of this law. I hope that we can provide real security for people when it comes to enforcement and practical implementation. I will discuss this with other government officials in other debates. I think we will find each other in that, but I hope that we will continue this debate in this area. I think there's a lot to do. This underlines a shared vision and a shared interest, but unfortunately we are not yet there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you, Mrs Yesilgöz. Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for answering the first-term questions. I would like to refer to the term'may be yourself', which has been mentioned several times in the debate. And that's a very important one. The CDA often says, "Live together, you don't do it alone." That goes for here, too. This also means that your individual experience is always with others and that we not only have to take our own wishes into account, but also the environment. It means, above all, that people should not be separated from themselves. That is precisely why it is important to mention this in the debate on equal treatment. Thank you again for the answers, also for the nuances that have been made. We had, for example, raised the case of the answer on cervical cancer screening, on which, in a sense, the proposers gave a slightly different answer than in writing and something that fits well. We do not need to adapt everything, but we need to be aware of people who say 'I am one of them'. I think that is a very important nuance of how we should see this bill. The norm is that we are against improper discrimination. It is not the case, with others and with whom I myself feel something, that a kind of standard is established here where it has to be repeated in all kinds of areas. It's really about not treating you equally. That is a legitimate standard to lay down in a law. I have also heard the Minister's answers to the question of what is needed in other legislation. I think it is a good thing that the Minister has underlined that this is like a house, but that she does not intend to go further in all other areas. In any case, the CDA Group has been given a great deal of clarity by the authors about this law. Next week's vote and perhaps then success on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u56	Thank you. Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for answering the questions, but I must say that I found the content of the answer somewhat disappointing. I am not saying that to be annoying, but the questions I raised in the first term were, as far as I am concerned, intended at least to make a deepening impact on the consideration of the problems raised here. And then there's a little too little coming out of it. I also really wonder whether the initiators really see the consequences of this proposal. Let me put it this way: I have the impression that it is not legally sufficiently thought-out and that it is a little bit too thought-out then I use that nasty word but again too much stuck at the level of an ideological agenda. When I raise a question about gender identity and gender expression in relation to sexual identity, I get the answer: I cannot see the connection to the bill. This is a consequence you must have thought about. The minister says gender must be seen separately from sexual identity. Of course, I understand that this is a decorated thing. But when you're talking about gender expression, it's too short to say that it has nothing to do with sexual expression, with sexual identity. You must have thought about that. You must have thought about what consequences this has for family law and for the position of families, for marriage law and so on. The issue of positive discrimination against women should also remain. Yeah, wait a minute, but what if you're going through this line of thinking consistently? Can you do that with dry eyes? Then you can say as a legislator at random: this is allowed and that is not allowed. Yeah, but wait a minute, where is the logical consistency between them? I do not think that is enough in the answer to the questions. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this legislative proposal deserves a detailed reflection. It can, if it's going to be something, last for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u58	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr. Chairman. I cannot move fast enough with the process of making this proposal for an adaptation law, because others have said it, people are being excluded, feel excluded, and this bill addresses that. So thank you once again to the authors for their proposal, for the clear and precise answer to all our questions. Thanks to the Minister, too. I look forward to further treatment. Mr President, in our country we stand before everyone's right to be who you are. This proposal supports that. That makes me proud of the proposers, it makes me very proud of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now turn to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiators and the Minister. Despite all the appreciation, they did not convince me that these proposed changes actually add anything to the legal status of transgenders and intersex persons. After all, we are following the interpretation of the Council of State. As far as we are concerned, the concept of "sex" in the AWGB is wide enough. And, as I pointed out in my first term, those implications of an adaptation will certainly affect a range of laws, despite the Minister's promise that it will all be okay. Nothing else yet. In her introduction, Mrs Bergkamp stressed that the initiators are genuinely concerned with better protection for transgenderers and intersex persons. I am happy to accept that, but it is not for nothing that she stresses that there is no hidden agenda, even a secret society. A secret society even! She means ironically, I hope, but there is no denying that there is indeed a derailed discourse, especially in the United States and Canada, where even the freedom of expression at universities is compromised. No matter how you turn it, that discourse is conducted aggressively, extremely ideologically loaded, and despite all the good intentions of the initiators they are still part of that discourse. The discourse does not do the proposers any good. Perhaps Mrs Bergkamp will be able to respond briefly. Finally, if we really want to improve the position of transgenders and intersex individuals, we really need to increase the willingness to report in cases of aggression, intimidation and discrimination. 10% are reporting, 90% aren't. That's outrageous. That is a serious problem. We must demand from the police and the judicial authorities that all reports are recorded seriously, and that they are followed up seriously. Because transgenders and intersex individuals, like all other citizens in this country, have the right to public protection, and the government has the duty to protect these citizens. That is the essence of the social contract between citizens and government. And we attach great importance to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u62	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. Finally, I will go to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the authors on the way in which they have answered the questions put by the Members of Parliament. There were many of them, including those of my group. Thank you also to the Minister for the answers. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I indicated that the Christian Union sees with the proposers that there is a group of people falling between ship and ship. I have indicated that this observation calls for us to defend a society in which people can and can be themselves. You should never be discriminated against on that basis. That's what we stand for. I have two more questions that I would like to put to the authors. I hope they can answer that. The authors have addressed our question as to whether these concepts are sufficiently clear. They consider that this is the case, inter alia, as follows from the case-law...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So why didn't the applicants choose to define the concepts in the explanatory memorandum? I have not heard a response to the other question, but I may have missed it. There is a social interest, as my group sees it. But I wonder what the explicit inclusion of these groups in the law means for other groups that are not included. Is it not at the heart of the Equal Treatment Act that everyone is equal before the law? Doesn't that lead to an imbalance in the law? I would ask the authors if they would like to go into this further. I thank the Minister for the clear answer that, legally speaking, there is no need to amend other laws in which the concept of "sex" occurs and that the government does not intend to do so either. I'll leave it at that in second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I see Mrs Bergkamp gets up right away. It seems as if she has been used for years to defending a proposal equally from the cabinet. I like to see it. I call Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your comment, of course, gives me even more energy. A number of questions have been asked and one motion has been tabled. It seems to me that the Minister is responding to the motion. First of all, I want to correct one case. In Mrs Özütok's story she mentioned the example of a diploma. It's a transman instead of a transwoman. I think it is important for the Acts to clarify this. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has asked what the authors think of the sometimes aggressive discourse when it comes to issues related to gender issues. This is separate from our own initiative law, but it is clear that the authors attach great importance to a worthy debate, a good consultation and a social debate. Such a debate has taken place in the first term and now in the second. You can disagree, but you can have the debate with each other in a respectful way. This in response to the comment/question of the PVV. In addition, two questions were asked by the Christian Union. The first was about adding groups. I think we will discuss Article 1 of the Constitution in the First Chamber. Which groups should be included and which should not be included? Actually, there's always a discussion about that. For example, should social origin be included? Let me be clear. This bill is not intended to add a group, but to clarify who is already covered. It is an explicitation based on gender identity, gender expression and gender traits. Then there is the question of the Christian Union about the definitions. We have chosen to include a definition in a footnote. From my point of view, it is footnote 27. It does contain a comprehensive definition of what we mean by gender expression and gender identity. We do not consider it appropriate in the legal system to include a definition in the law, but neither did the Christian Union. The question was: could the applicants not have included a definition in the explanatory statement? So that's what we did, but in a footnote. We also think it is important to give the College and the judiciary the room or, depending on the situation, to give it its own interpretation. To be honest, that also depends on the choice we have made not to name the separate grounds, for example. Because then you can get interpretation differences. We thought it was important to indicate a direction and a definition; we did so in the footnote. Finally, I would like to thank a number of people. First of all, of course, the Members of Parliament, the Minister as an advisor to the Chamber, which has been very pleasant, of course, our policy supporters and everyone else who has contributed to this legislative proposal. I would also like to thank the interest groups that have brought this issue forward and put it on the map. They have indicated that it is important, because there should be no doubt about discrimination based on gene identity, gene expression and gender traits. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mr. Chairman. It can be very short from my side. There is another question about the timing of the results at the waiting times. I noted that a quality standard for somatic transgender care is being developed. This standard will be delivered this year and then more insight will be given and a decision will be made on the waiting times. Then there is a comment on a statement by Mr Van der Molen. He said I said no passing of the law. I just need to clarify this. I said "no need to amend other laws." It's working through, but it's legal. I wanted to clarify this so that we understand each other. Then there's the motion. As the motion now stands, there is no mention of the statement just made by Mr Van Dijk concerning the inclusion of an investigation. I just said that if we first examine the legal consequences, this could then lead to a proposal. I would like to know whether there are any legal consequences that we want or not. If Mr Van Dijk is going to amend the motion, that would be very relevant to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u68	The motion doesn't rule out an investigation, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u69	No, but I just heard Mr Van Dijk say to Mrs Yeşilgöz that he might amend the motion, so that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr Jasper van Dijk, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u71	That wasn't exactly an answer to my question. I am not fundamentally opposed to amending a motion if that would help to secure a majority vote, but it concerns the request contained in the motion. You're allowed to investigate every day. That won't stop this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u72	I said in the first term that it would be a step too soon to announce immediately that there would be a legislative proposal. I would like to start with a legal investigation to make sure that this is the best legal solution. I'm not ruling it out at all. I am in favour, because the purpose of the motion is very appealing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u73	You're gonna change her, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u74	I'm gonna go check it out. You'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u75	We're going to vote on Tuesday, so you'll have plenty of time. Thank you. Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u76	Let me get this straight. "I'm going to investigate, because the essence of the motion appeals to me, but I wonder if this is wise." Is this what the minister said? Is that the commitment we have now? Because that helps me again to see how we deal with a motion that has or has not been modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u77	I think we're starting to get closer. I have said that I am in favour of the goal, but I am adding that it is necessary to do legal research first. If the Chamber asked me that, I can imagine we're all on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u79	We are going to vote next week on the bill and the Jasper van Dijk/Buitenweg motion. Before I suspend the sitting, I would like to congratulate Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Özütok on this bill, irrespective of whether it is passed. People who have followed this, know that MPs do this alongside their regular work, consisting of debates, work visits and the like, and do not always have the same support as, for example, ministers and State Secretaryes. So my compliments on that. They did not do this without the support of the policy staff. The same applies to them, because they work for several MPs. Congratulations and thank you very much for that.
