ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Blood Supply Act relating to risk management within the Blood Supply Organisation. I would like to welcome the Minister of Medical Care to our midst. It's a legal procedure. There is therefore no question of limiting the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	I should like to give the floor to Mrs Kooiman of the Socialist Party as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. We can talk today about our beautiful blood bank. Let me start with the approximately 344 000 volunteers who donate blood or plasma each time, thank you very much today for their commitment. It is incredibly beautiful that so many people want to help their sick fellow human beings by donating blood or plasma. Mr. Chairman. By law, we have one organisation that has the exclusive right to blood supply in the Netherlands. That's Sanquin. The reason we are discussing this today is that there has been quite a lot to do about Sanquin and that there can be doubts about the commercialisation of the company. If you give donor blood or plasma, who does it benefit? To the sick fellow man or to the pharmaceutical industry that can make a lot of money from it, to grabbing directors or managers? And what are the risks? If an industry loses, to what extent is the entire blood supply threatened? So that's what this law is about. Even the VVD ministers Schippers and now Bruins found the commercialization of Sanquin so risky that they changed the law. That is why this bill is also called Amendment to the Blood Supply Act in relation to risk management within the Blood Supply Organisation. Mr. Chairman. I'd really like to stay with my own blood type. That's B positive, "be positive." I am very pleased that the Minister wants to do something about risk management. The SP therefore considers this law to be an improvement in the current situation. We can vote for any improvement on this risk management. So much for the whole positive input. No, seriously, no kidding. As SP, we would have much preferred to talk today about the amendment of the law on blood supply in relation to the elimination of any risk within the Blood Supply Organisation. If you ask the SP what we think should stay public and some private, then our measuring bar is pretty clear. So what shouldn't go bankrupt shouldn't go private either. I think that this is the best example of care, and the blood supply that is essential in the care, so too. Now this law seeks to separate public and private as much as possible. In the public part of Sanquin there are a lot of legal tasks, such as the blood bank and plasma, and then you have a very large private part. But attached to the public part is a large holding company with three commercial e.g. which, oddly enough, also includes statutory tasks. The SP would have preferred to adopt a rigorous approach: the total rejection of commercial activities, so that the blood supply as a public task is completely secured. I'm trying to understand what's behind it, Mr. Chairman. What exactly is the reason why our blood supply is a mix of public and commercial activities? And what exactly is the purpose of all these e.g.s? The Sanquin Blood Supply Foundation is wholly owned by Sanquin Plasma Products B.V., Sanquin Reagents B.V. and Sanquin Diagnostics B.V., which again belongs to that holding company. If I put all that together, I think: I almost don't follow it, you may not follow it either. The main question then is: why do all these commercial provisions fall under the public core task? Is it not enough for the Sanquin Foundation to simply carry out those public tasks? Isn't this profitable enough? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I see our criticism of the current construction confirmed by recent examples that show that we have made public blood supply unnecessarily vulnerable. For example, a few weeks ago, but also last week, the FD headlined "Blood company Sanquin is heading for heavy losses." The top man of Sanquin Plasma Products BV, Pieter de Geus, expects a number of heavy financial years because 50 to 80 million euros is needed for modernisation and even a buyer who wants to take a majority stake is being sought. Not so crazy perhaps, because Sanquin is also a relatively small player on a global market for plasma products. In the market for commercial blood products, Sanquin must compete on a world market with big boys from the pharmaceutical industry. Problem is that Sanquin Plasma Products also has a legal and public task, ensuring the availability of plasma medicinal products. The task has been outsourced to Sanquin Plasma Products, but the blood supply organisation Stichting Sanquin remains ultimately responsible for carrying out this legal task. This is not without risk. The Minister himself admits that, in the most extreme case, the whole blood supply organization could go bankrupt due to problems of the commercial branch. Now the commercial branch, Sanquin Plasma Products, is in severe financial conditions. These problems can therefore be transmitted to the whole blood supply, i.e. to the public blood supply. On the one hand, the Minister states that this change in law precludes the failure of the Sanquin Foundation due to the failure of one of these e.g., but can the Minister explain this? He shows, on the one hand, that it is all excluded, but in response to our questions he says: yes, there is a risk that the whole blood supply may also go bankrupt. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, several examples of self-enrichment at the top of Sanquin have been reviewed. Top men who left with tons of compensation, salaries well above the maximum allowed, behavior that does not fit within a public organisation. It doesn't make you happy. The salary of the board of directors of the Sanquin Foundation is covered by the Top Income Standards Act. However, directors of the bv's who are not also on the board of Stichting Sanquin are not covered by the Law on Standards of Top Incomes. What about the salaries of the directors of Plasma Products BV? After all, they also carry out a public task. Can't it be true that these directors are not covered by the Top Income Standards Act? Mr. Chairman. The government promises that this law will secure the public task sufficiently and respond to unforeseen developments without the need for a further change of law. I think that's very premature. What exactly is the Minister's view of this? What does it mean for society and for the blood supply they should be able to rely on? The Minister states that if the blood supply organisation has infringed the duty of care, the blood supply organisation can be held liable for the debts of a subsidiary. Doesn't he say exactly that the foundation will pay for the debts of a subsidiary? The Minister also states that when Sanquin Plasma Products BV goes bankrupt, the blood supply organisation must have opportunities for diversion in case Sanquin Plasma can no longer carry out the legal tasks. After all, making plasma medicines for the Netherlands is also a public task. Who provides for the existence of these opportunities, I ask the Minister. That the blood crawls where it can't go, we've been able to see over the past few years. As far as SP is concerned, Sanquin's private commercial branch should be completely separated. Only in this way can we maintain confidence in the blood supply. The public service provision is not yet sufficiently protected by this amendment. We don't want any less risk, we just don't want any risk. Mr. Chairman. Now there are also a number of important tasks within Sanquin that fall under the commercial branch, and I wonder why it is not actually a legal task. For example, blood tests, umbilical cord blood banks and breast milk banks. These are all very important tasks that I am wondering: why do we leave this in the commercial sector? Can the Minister comment on this? Finally, Mr President, I have a somewhat personal message. Yesterday I myself talked a lot about my motherhood. I cannot fail to mention breast-feeding here for a moment. I was lucky to breastfeed when I had a son. When my colostrum was called "the first milk for a baby," I thought: what a beauty it is if we can give that to premature children who also need it. So I asked my maternity care provider and my midwife, "Can I donate?" They didn't really know that very well. With a lot of detours, I found out that I had to go to Sanquin myself to sign up there, to let me be a donor. I finally succeeded, but I can tell you that if you just gave birth, it is very painful to go on the bike from one side of Utrecht to the other side of Utrecht to test whether you are a suitable donor. That's a little tricky when you have to feed every two hours. There's got to be something to think about. Can the Minister not talk to Sanquin about how we can make that work better for all the mothers who really want to make that donation? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Kooiman, for your first-term contribution. The second speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs De Vries. She's a member of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People may be wondering why they were robbed on the benches. In my view, this is the last debate in which Mrs Kooiman is present. Mr. Chairman. If someone needs blood after an accident or during surgery, of course you want it to be available. It is therefore important to ensure that blood is collected and made available. It is a great thing in the Netherlands that people make their blood and plasma available without payment. That's something we need to cherish. I therefore agree with Mr Kooiman's thanks to those who donate blood and plasma. This bill provides a number of safeguards for guaranteeing that blood supply. That is what the VVD supports. Separating Sanquin into multiple entities helps to reduce the risks of commercial activities to the blood supply. It is good that a legal restructuring has taken place and that a separation has been made between the public legal task, the blood bank, and the commercial tasks, such as plasma products, diagnostics and reagents. Nevertheless, a number of non-legislative tasks remain in the foundation alongside the blood supply organisation. On the one hand, these are logical tasks in terms of efficiency and efficiency, such as the group services, research and the laboratory. On the other hand, these are non-legislative tasks, such as the provision of stem cells and activities around the cord blood bank. The VVD doesn't really think it makes sense that these non-legal tasks take place in the foundation. Does the Minister share the view that it makes more sense to place these activities in a subsidiary? Why didn't this happen? What are the plans regarding the rejection of these activities? At what time will stem cell delivery be stopped? What plans are there for the umbilical cord blood bank? Does the Minister agree with the VVD that, outside the group services, research and the lab services, non-legislative tasks should be included in subsidiaries in the future? It is crucial for the continuation of blood banking activities that subsidiaries cannot cause problems. Since the subsidiaries are a separate legal entity, bankruptcy does not in principle affect the blood supply organisation and the legal tasks it carries out. However, the parent company still has a certain duty of care vis-à-vis the creditors of the subsidiaries. Mrs Kooiman spoke about this earlier. The parent undertaking may therefore be held liable in the event of bankruptcy of one of the subsidiaries. This risk should be as low as possible with regard to the VVD. In order to be able to supervise, the Minister needs information. It is now legal for the Minister to receive consolidated accounts, but the VVD does not consider that sufficient. We also want the annual reports and annual accounts of the subsidiaries to be made available to the Minister. The VVD has now tabled an amendment along with the CDA and D66. We are, of course, looking forward to the Minister's response to this. It is important that there are sufficient donors for blood and plasma. Unfortunately, in recent years, the number of donors has fallen from 380,000 in 2013 to 243,000 in 2016. The question is what is being done by the Blood Supply Organisation to ensure that the number of donors in the near future does not decrease and is preferably going to increase. How is it ensured that more diversity is created in terms of blood donors? How can it be ensured that more homosexual men can also give blood or plasma in a safe way, for example by accelerating testing? Of course, you want everyone to donate blood in a safe way. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this and see what action can or should be taken? A lot of legislation from the legislative proposal still needs to be completed by lower laws and regulations, by AMvBs, a ministerial regime or a policy rule. These must be known in any case as regards the VVD and enter into force at the same time as the law. What is the state of play and how is the House of Representatives involved, because, for example, the percentage of non-legislative activities is very crucial? The price of blood seems to be different in different countries. The Netherlands seems relatively expensive. Can an explanation be given for this? Can it also be stated how the price of the blood supplied by Sanquin comes about? What incentives are there at Sanquin for blood supply to take place as cheaply as possible? What instruments does the Minister have for this? Making plasma medicines by Sanquin is a commercial activity. There are also competing manufacturers of plasma medicines. The VVD is always in favour of a level playing field, but to what extent? Setting the price for the interchange between the Foundation and, for example, Sanquin Plasma Products is crucial for that level playing field. In this case, the Ministry sets the price, but in many other cases we leave the price regulation to the Authority Consumer & Market. Why is this not the case and how is it regulated in other countries? Does it also apply in other countries that producers are not allowed to make profits? The plasma of donors is actually commercially used. We are curious how the information about this to the plasma donors is arranged. We believe that this should be made clear in advance. It is important that a legislative proposal is clear on what is meant. The bill stipulates that the Minister must authorise the performance of tasks by others. The Minister may refuse to do so if there is evidence of adverse effects. However, no further explanation has been given in the report to the VVD's questions. However, we would like to know what is now meant by 'displayable adverse effects'. I can imagine that an efficient blood supply would be at risk, or that the work could no longer be carried out in a responsible manner. I would like the Minister's clarification on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. As the third speaker from the Chamber, I shall give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet from the Green Left Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by saying how sorry I am that Mrs Kooiman has had her last input. We're gonna miss her so much. She was a pleasant, involved and cheerful colleague. Unfortunately, we hope to see you at another time, Mrs. Kooiman. Then there is the debate on blood supply. That is what we are talking about today. It seems to my group to be a good idea to impose legal restrictions on this, but we still have a few questions. It has been found that the current construction of the Blood Supply Organisation is subject to certain risks. In particular, it concerns the multitude of activities undertaken by the Blood Supply Organisation. The aim of this proposal is to eliminate risk to the blood supply organization's own funds for non-legal activities and to reduce the number of activities. According to GroenLinks that is a good idea. We will therefore vote in favour of the bill. First of all, my group wonders whether the legislative proposal is sufficiently future-proof. Can the Blood Supply Organisation respond adequately to new developments? Is there enough room in this law for that? I think it would be wise to include this in the budget. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. The Sanquin blood supply organization is allowed to make a profit, and if I understand correctly, profits made from donations obtained must benefit the legal tasks. What exactly does the monitoring of the inspection look like? Will this be an additional point of interest with effect from the new law? I also wonder what the AMvB will look like, which clarifies what activities cannot be transferred to subsidiaries. It will be published at the end of 2018. However, it is good if the Chamber can look at this before the law comes into force. My group considers this to be less appropriate, as the Minister now intends, to be informed of this by means of the annual topical and urgent letter. I'd like another comment on this. Then there is the question of what happens in the event of bankruptcy, which, of course, we all do not hope or expect. Part of last year's profits, I believe about 14 million people have gone to cover deficits elsewhere. Can the Minister state what is a reasonable reserve for the blood supply organization? Is there a plan ready to continue the organisation's activities in the event of bankruptcy? What opportunities does the Minister see for the blood supply organization? And what role does the government play in this? That has not yet become clear to me. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. In his written reply, the Minister states that he considers the risks of bankruptcy of subsidiaries acceptable because they are separate legal entities. I have my own doubts about that. Can the Minister explain more precisely why, in the event of bankruptcy of subsidiaries, he sees no risk of carrying out the tasks of the blood supply organisation? What exactly does the supervision of these subsidiaries look like? Finally, I was wondering whether Mrs De Vries was talking about the number of blood and plasma donors in the Netherlands. We see this decline, but is the current number of donors sufficient and future-proof? Or are further campaigns or other activities needed to increase this number? I would also like to comment on that. Mr. Chairman. I have come to the end of my speech, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. We shall then go to the next speaker of the Chamber, and that is Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr President. In general, the CDA would like to raise the following points. We want to see a clear separation of legal and non-legislative tasks and to be governed by public law. We support that this is happening now, but we regret that it is not being implemented 100%. With regard to Article 3 (a) (1), we would like confirmation that, in the case of statutory tasks, only the carrying out of work can be outsourced and no ownership transferred, and that transfer of ownership is only possible in the case of goods. We would also like to know exactly what the core tasks are. I will explain this question later. It talks about legal tasks, non-legislative tasks and non-essential activities of statutory tasks, such as transport or catering. In all cases, we want the Minister's consent and conditions to be laid down in order to avoid improper constructions such as further resale with profit or sub-contracting with profit. If there is a need for an amendment, we would be glad to hear it. With regard to all these cases, we also want to remain involved as Chambers. We want this involvement, for example, if the Minister deviates from the conditions of exemption, such as the percentage of non-legislative activities. We would also like to hear whether the Minister is going to give an undertaking or whether we should come up with an amendment to that effect. On page 8 of the explanatory statement, it says that no guarantees are given by the Foundation, but we want to be sure that the daughters can neither give guarantees nor buy shares from third parties without permission. Giving guarantees means more risk and therefore possibly earlier bankruptcy. Apart from the fact that the foundation is 100% shareholder and thus lost its investment, the foundation can also be called upon to do and leave the daughter, both by the laundry list, and by tort deed. That is on page 14 of the explanatory memorandum. That is why we wholeheartedly support the amendment of the VVD, which gives the Minister all the annual accounts of all e.g. In addition, the CDA wants an annual report to the House of Representatives on the financial situation and risks, including the subsidiaries, for example on changes in market conditions, guarantees issued and the real estate situation. I'm considering a motion to that effect. We want to know what happens to the money from selling real estate, including the daughters. Does that go to the mother and to the legal duties? After all, as far as we know, all these companies have been set up with public money. Recently, a lot of reports were published in the FD about business failures at Sanquin. In reply to my written questions of mid-February, the Minister states that the reports on problems at SPP are incorrect and that Sanquin Plasma Products is financially sound. I hope, of course, that he is right about this and would like to be confirmed that there are no problems. Mr President, I would like to explain this further. Firstly, as Mrs Kooiman said, we also congratulate all volunteers who provide all donations each time. The law we are discussing today, the Blood Supply Act, is an important bill. This bill reduces the risks of non-legal activities of blood supply and will allow better management of business risks. That is a good step, because it is important that the Netherlands is and remains self-sufficient for the supply of blood. That is why we need to prevent blood supply from being compromised due to possible financial problems with, for example, the subsidiary Sanquin Plasma Products or the umbilical cord blood bank. The CDA supports the objective of making a clearer separation between legal and non-legal activities. However, we regret that this cannot be implemented at 100%. That is why I have a few questions and I would also like to ask the Minister on a number of points. First of all, I have questions about preventing public money from eventually being distributed as a profit. Sanquin is a private legal entity, but one that is appropriate to ensure blood supply in the Netherlands. That makes this a special undertaking. The Minister therefore wants to set a maximum percentage of the budget that may be spent on non-legislative activities. He writes that he is in consultation with his colleagues from Economic Affairs and Finance. How's that going? And will this limit be below or above the current rate of 27%? Despite the fact that Sanquin is a private legal person, the CDA believes that it should be avoided that care money is distributed as a profit through this institution or through its subsidiaries. In 2016, the foundation as a whole had a result of 14 million euros. According to the Minister, part of this profit was invested in non-legal activities. Can the Minister explain this further? Is this cross-pollination? And can we still do that when this bill comes into force? If Plasma Products allocates a large part of the costs to the products for the foundation, it is easy to make a profit on the other part. And how is it possible at all to determine how much profit the foundation has made and how much of it has been invested in non-legal activities if there is no separate accounting? In other words, what part of Sanquin has made a profit of EUR 14 million and what part of it has been invested in non-legal activities? In this context, the Council of State also notes that it is noteworthy that Article 25b of the Competition Act is not applicable. This would require Sanquin to keep separate accounts for the various legal and non-legislative activities. This could prevent cross-pollination. In itself, the Minister has been able to explain why the article in question has not been declared applicable, but can the Minister indicate whether Sanquin can nevertheless be imposed in order to keep separate accounts? Sanquin is a company that does not require authorisation on the basis of the Health Care Institutions Act, so there is no prohibition on profit-making. Of course, it should be possible to invest in innovation, but how is public care money not being distributed as a profit through Sanquin? Following on from this question, I ask the Minister why Article 3b provides for the possibility that other legal entities to whom essential tasks are transferred, such as real estate management or blood testing, may be profit-oriented. Although that article states that the legal person to whom, for example, the real estate is transferred should not be profit-oriented, it also states "unless the carrying out of such activities by that legal person or the handing over of such property to that legal person does not create any disadvantages for the supply of blood and improves the efficiency of the supply of blood'. I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister as to why this way out should be included in the law. Mr President, I would like to refer to Rule 3a.1. Here's what's in it. "The Blood Supply Organisation may, in the interests of efficient blood supply and with the consent of our Minister, have activities or goods essential for the performance of the tasks referred to in Article 3 (1) (c) and (d) carried out by one or more other legal persons either in their possession." Can the Minister confirm that this is only about outsourcing work which can be carried out by third parties with the permission of the Minister, and that, therefore, there can only be transfer of ownership in the case of goods? In the written replies, the Minister states that it will be possible for others to carry out essential work in the future if blood supply is to be made more effective. Can the Minister guarantee that this will only happen if the quality and security of blood supply are kept at a minimum? How can he see to that? Is the Chamber involved in such a decision and, if so, how? I would like to hear the Minister's views on how the Chamber can best be involved in such decisions. For example, if, as I indicated earlier, an amendment is needed to incorporate a veil or otherwise into the law, then I will submit it. Mr President, those were the essential work. The explanatory memorandum states that in the case of non-essential activities of legal tasks, such as transport and catering, ownership can be transferred without permission. Can the Minister explain how this is gonna work? And can he promise that these transfers of ownership will always be subject to prior authorisation, and that the condition will be included that resale or further outsourcing will only be possible with the Minister's permission? This to prevent improper constructions: you sell some to a third party, who sells it again very quickly to another third party, while the service becomes much less or there are improper working conditions constructions. With regard to the above and other powers which the Minister is given, I would like the Chamber to be informed in advance, whether or not by means of veils. I am referring to the powers conferred on the Minister under Article 3c, namely the power to waive the maximum percentage of non-legislative tasks and the power given to the Minister under Article 3e, namely the authorisation to transfer non-legal activities or goods, which has an impact on the performance of the statutory tasks. How is the Chamber involved in the decision to grant this exemption and consent? Is it also an idea here to regulate such decisions by means of veils? In the fourth starting point we read that the blood supply organization is supposed to carry out at least the core tasks of the blood supply and that they cannot therefore be transferred. But what exactly are these core tasks? For in the reply to the opinion of the Council of State, the Minister states that it is clear that the tasks referred to in Article 3 (1) (a) and (b) are to be carried out. And that's it? Article 3 mentions inter alia intermediate products and blood products. However, the third review recently sent to the Chamber shows that the definition of intermediate and blood products is unclear. This problem has already been identified in the second review of the law. Does the Minister agree with the researchers that this definition is unclear? If not, why not? If so, how does the Minister intend to remove this ambiguity? Mr. Chairman. The Minister wants the blood supply to be carried out as efficiently as possible. That is, of course, justified in itself. However, a recent article in the Financieelijke Dagblad (Financial Journal) reveals to my predecessors that even though a bag of blood costs about €214 in the Netherlands, it is €180 in Belgium and Germany. In reply to my written questions, the Minister indicated that making such a comparison would not make sense to explain, in particular, the costs involved in the price of the Dutch bags of blood. That is not a very satisfactory answer. The third evaluation of the Blood Supply Act, which was sent to the Chamber, shows that in the implementation practice there is also incomprehension and criticism of the price of the blood bags in the Netherlands. What about Belgium, for example? Why is it so much cheaper there, when, as with us, they have no economies of scale from Germany? Are the costs incurred not included in the final price, for example? For example, what are the costs per capita compared? Does that give you a different picture? The Minister further writes that the Sanquin Foundation has the policy of no longer owning real estate. Therefore, all purchasing locations are sold in stages and hired back where necessary. Why does Sanquin have this as a policy? How many locations is this about? What amounts are collected? In particular, where does this money go? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few questions about the umbilical cord blood bank in Zaandam. It is still unclear what will happen to this. What is the status of the investigation into the need for an own Armadillo blood bank in the Netherlands? What considerations does the Minister make as to whether the need for an own Armadillo blood bank justifies funding through the Sanquin budget? Is it true that there are plans to transfer this division to Beverwijk? If so, under what conditions will this happen? Is it included as a condition that it may not be resold to third parties without consultation with the Minister, or that work may be outsourced to third parties? If this provision were to eventually disappear in the Netherlands, what consequences would it have? Minister Schippers wrote last year that she considers it important that stem cells will still be available for stem cell transplants. These stem cells should then come from sources other than cord blood or from other institutions on the international market. Can the Minister indicate what other sources or foreign institutions could supply these stem cells? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few questions about the residual risks related to the subsidiaries. As I said at the beginning, I am very sorry that no strict 100% separation between legal tasks and non-legislative tasks can be made. Nevertheless, we want as much certainty as possible that financial problems in the subsidiaries cannot lead to a shortage of blood plasma or problems for the mother. The report in the Financieele Dagblad on the state of play of subsidiary SBP does not reassure. The Minister is trying to radiate like nothing's wrong. Last Thursday it turned out that the company in America is extra controlled by the FDA. All the engagements have been revoked. Internal documents would show that there are 51 risk factors in business operations. Can the Minister respond to this? To what extent does the Minister himself understand the financial situation of the subsidiaries such as SBP? It is clear that the CDA fully supports the VVD's amendment, which lays down that the minister of all e.g. should be given the annual accounts, including the daughters. As far as I am concerned, the Court is then informed annually about the financial situation and the risks of the Sanquin Foundation, including its subsidiaries or the companies in which the foundation has an interest or shares. I would also like the Chamber to have an overview of, for example, changes in market conditions, guarantees issued and the real estate situation. Can the Minister undertake an annual report? I am also considering tabling a motion for a resolution to that effect. In the explanatory statement, the Minister states that the foundation no longer provides guarantees, but does this also apply to the subsidiaries? Can they also not give guarantees or buy shares from third parties? Guarantees increase the risk of subsidiaries, allowing them to go bankrupt more quickly. Finally, Mr President. The foundation is 100% shareholder of the subsidiaries. A bankruptcy of the daughter means that the foundation would have lost some of its assets. In addition, the foundation can also be held liable for doing and leaving the subsidiary, partly because the laundry list established by the foundation, or laundry list, still has a significant influence on the policies of the subsidiaries. In reply to my written questions of mid-February, the Minister states that the reports on the problems at Sanquin Plasma Products are incorrect and that SPP is financially sound. I hope, of course, that he is right about this, but it will be clear that the CDA is not comfortable with this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then we come to the last speaker in the first term on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mrs Dijkstra of D66. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to take the opportunity to thank Mrs Kooiman warmly for her last contribution as a Member of Parliament. We really enjoyed her as a colleague and we're gonna miss her. I would also like to join Mrs Kooiman in expressing my gratitude to all donors, blood donors and plasma donors who are also characteristic of her, which is why Sanquin can do his job. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about a law change. My group agrees with the objective of reducing risks. The blood supply organisation should not be exposed to unnecessary risks as a result of non-legislative tasks. The legislative proposal is mainly technical in nature and lays down a number of issues, which are already regulated by agreements. I think that's a good development. Mutual agreements will be binding in this way and supervision will also be regulated. However, my group still needs more clarity on a number of points. One of the basic principles of Dutch blood supply is: the pursuit of national self-sufficiency. The tasks include: promoting donation readiness, preparing blood products from voluntary and non-donated blood or blood plasma, and ensuring safe and efficient blood supply. Those statutory tasks shall be separated from non-legal activities as far as possible. For plasma medicinal products, a complete legal separation is not considered desirable, as both the statutory tasks and the non-legal activities require the same production facilities and the same staff. I understand that it is efficient to share this and that scaling up is important in a small country like the Netherlands, but I would like the Minister to explain why it is so important for us as the Netherlands, small country, to be self-sufficient. The same rules apply to the production of plasma medicinal products throughout the European Union. Are these pee medicines therefore not safe to involve from other countries of the European Union? I would also like to hear the way in which the separation between legal tasks and non-legal activities is organised in the accounting system. How, for example, is it prevented that the non-legal part of Plasma Products B.V. benefits from the fact that knowledge and skills for the statutory tasks are also available for non-legal activities? In short, how do you prevent unfair competition and how, and by whom, will this be monitored? Mr. Chairman. As far as risk management is concerned, a number of principles have been observed, some of which have been incorporated into the law itself and some of them into a policy rule. I have another question about a number of these principles. For example, it is arranged that the Minister of Health must give permission if the Blood Supply Organisation wishes to transfer the goods belonging to non-legal activities owned to another legal person and this transfer of ownership has an impact on the performance of the statutory tasks. If the transfer does not affect the blood supply, i.e. the legal tasks, then no consent is required. That sounds very clear and clear, but who makes the assessment of whether there are consequences for the blood supply is my question to the Minister? Is this always clear and clear in advance? Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the Blood Supply Act, the WBV in short, the Blood Supply Organisation remains responsible for the whole of the blood supply, but work can be transferred to another legal entity. However, the Blood Supply Organisation must, as a responsible organisation, ensure that the work itself can be resumed in the event that the other legal person is unexpectedly unable to carry out the work properly. I myself am curious to hear from the Minister what to think about. Then what is an unexpected situation for which an escape option should be stand-by? Because if you have to move to another organization, the Minister must give you permission to do so. How soon can that consent be obtained? I'm asking because of this. If there is an unexpected situation, you must act quickly. I wonder if that is why Article 3a (2) of the CFC applies. It states that the authorisation must be requested at least four months before the intended date on which the work is carried out by another legal person. Then the Minister will decide within three months. That's why I'm dealing with the term "unexpected." Can you see "unexpected" coming so long in advance that this article will continue to apply, or are there any other situations possible? I don't quite understand how that should be arranged. Mr. Chairman. The authorisation to transfer work may also be withdrawn if, for example, the work has not been carried out responsibly, if the effective blood supply is at risk or if a particular circumstance gives rise to it. The authorisation for the transfer of property cannot be withdrawn, as this would constitute too much interference with the right to property. You've sold something that's the "transferable in ownership" and that's also irreversible. I wonder if this is taken into account when granting consent. Is there a difference between the granting of authorisation for the transfer of business and the transfer of property? One consent can still be revoked, the other can't. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The starting point is that all profits that are made with non-free or non-free donations that can also be said to have been obtained benefit the legal tasks. I think that's quite right. But how is this maintained? Blood and plasma donors must be able to assume that their donation benefits the public interest and not the commercial branch. At least, if this is the case, should they at least know that this is the case? I ask the Minister how this is communicated to them. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch Blood Supply Organisation is self-sufficient and the blood products are delivered to hospitals at cost. Others have already mentioned this. Hospitals that have to buy Sanquin blood are more expensive compared to other countries. Can the Minister explain again what that is about? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the financial risks. By placing the large non-legal activities in subsidiaries, the Blood Supply Organisation is not normally liable for the debts of the subsidiaries. This makes the risks more manageable. The Blood Supply Organisation can however influence the policy of subsidiaries because Sanquin holds all the shares and certain decisions relating to the subsidiaries must be taken by the Management Board. However, that also means that Sanquin cannot be excluded from being called upon in the event of the bankruptcy of a subsidiary as a factual policy-maker of that subsidiary. I would like more information about this risk, which cannot be excluded. Can the Minister also say anything about the possibility of this happening? Finally, Mr President. Under pressure from the Chamber, the donor selection policy has been adapted so that gays are no longer simply excluded from donation. They can donate blood after a period of 12 months has elapsed after the last sexual contact. This is in line with the positive experience gained in practice in Finland, Sweden and the United Kingdom. But someone who has a relationship can still never become a donor as long as that relationship lasts, unless they have no sexual contact for 12 months. My group regrets that, because that is not realistic. In the Ministry Plan Blood Supply 2018-2020, the Minister writes that Sanquin is following closely international developments in the field of MSM donation to explain: "MSM" stands for men who have sex with men and participate in international consultation and research on MSM donation. For example, an international meeting in Canada, where Sanquin was also represented, identified the scientific research needed to shorten the waiting period of 12 months after the last MSM contact in the donor selection policy. In addition, the meeting also considered whether the MSM policy could be based on criteria other than the period following the last MSM contact. I would like to hear from the Minister the latest state of affairs and an answer to the question whether the Netherlands itself participates actively in this investigation. This is it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs Dijkstra. With your contribution, we have come to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated his intention to suspend for a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the amendment to the Blood Supply Act relating to risk management within the Blood Supply Organisation. I'll give the first-term response to the Minister of Medical Care. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	And sports. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Before I go into the questions, I would like to pay attention, as everyone here this morning, to the 350,000 Dutch who donate their blood or blood plasma every year. They don't do that to make money, they don't do that because they have an interest in it, they do that because they want to mean something to someone else. Thanks to these people, we have a blood supply in the Netherlands for all patients who depend on it. I'm thinking of people after a serious traffic accident or patients who need surgery, mothers after childbirth or prematurely born iron deficient babies. These are just a few examples. Therefore, like your Chamber, I would like to compliment all donors from this place on their gift of such great value. It is precisely because our donors are so selfless that they should be able to count on the same selfless handling of their gift. By this I mean that blood and plasma that are given away in our country should also benefit Dutch patients. At the same time, we must not throw away what remains. For "full blood," Sanquin calls the blood as it flows through your veins and me, Sanquin has the exclusive right in the Netherlands. The organisation is the only provider and hospitals are obliged to take these short-lived blood products from Sanquin. These short-lived blood products are not cheap, but there are all the costs in the price. Some of you have asked questions about this. So also the cost of recruiting donors, including the blood bags we know so well, and also all the tests Sanquin is doing to make sure that the blood can be safely administered. In addition, Sanquin is very far with the whole type of blood worldwide. That's more than just determining whether you're O-negative or AB-positive, for example. Sanquin can already indicate 27 different blood types. For patients, that's good news, because the better you know the blood matches the recipient, the less immune responses there are to be seen. These immune reactions can be very mild, such as fever, but sometimes very severe with death as a result. That's why typing blood is very important. So much for donor blood. Then there's the plasma. Sanquin makes medicines, for example for people with haemophilia, for people who are seriously ill due to hepatitis B virus infection or people with autoimmune disease. On those plasma drugs, Sanquin doesn't have the exclusive right. So there are more providers, including in the Netherlands, and these are foreign companies that offer their plasma medicines here. The other way around, Sanquin can sell her plasma drugs worldwide, but not just like that. First of all, we have regulated by law that Sanquin must first offer these medicines to Dutch customers. Only that which remains may be offered outside the Netherlands. Why? I told you, because plasma is precious,............................................................................................................. Throwing away would be irresponsible and an insult to the people who donate plasma. Sanquin looks very closely at how many plasma and blood products are needed in the Netherlands. Sales abroad of Dutch plasma medicinal products are therefore limited. Since plasma medicines are also offered by other providers, competition law applies and Sanquin is prohibited from taking advantage of its legal functions. Sanquin competes with other suppliers in the sale of its medicines. This does not mean that Sanquin's profits will go to shareholders or directors. All profits made with free and voluntary donation of blood or plasma benefit from the performance of the legal tasks, i.e. the supply of blood, for example research on new or safer blood products or the improvement of production. Mr. Chairman. I therefore believe that this is well arranged. Then why is this bill? We see that demand for plasma drugs increases every year. Worldwide, that's one percent or six, seven a year. This is because more and more applications are found for patients. The ageing population also plays a role in this. Previously, the Chamber has already been informed about the importance of its own plasma drug production in the Netherlands. There is a shortage worldwide and we do not want to become dependent on the few producers that exist worldwide. Mr. Chairman. I think it is important that we ensure the security of our blood supply. Thanks to Sanquin, we have safe and high quality blood products. That's something to cherish. Some of you have said this in this way too. The Netherlands is virtually the only country in the world where the short-term sustainable blood products and the production of plasma medicines are integrated into one highly professional organisation. That happened in 1998. After the HIV epidemic, everyone felt it was important to pool knowledge and facilities to ensure the safety of donated blood and plasma. To keep its own productions future-proof, it was and is necessary to scale up Sanquin. And that's why Sanquin works for third parties, for example by producing plasma medicines from plasma from American donors for an American company. These plasma medicines are therefore intended for the American market. In this way, Sanquin can make more efficient use of its production facility. Forgive the example: compare it with the printing press of a newspaper. It only runs a few hours a day. That is why newspaper publishers often print all kinds of other publications in order to be able to extract the investment in these precious presses. Mr. Chairman. Sanquin is a foundation with an important social task. Sanquin must be able to take action in order to continue to exist, and that is why I think it is important that the excess capacity is used well, for example for production with the American plasma. A good definition is important in this respect, so that Sanquin's legal tasks can never be compromised. And that's what we want to settle with the bill. For example, this bill limits the scope of activities that are separate from Sanquin's legal tasks, so that we are sure that Dutch patients will receive the care they need. If the law is introduced, the activities that are separate from Sanquin's statutory tasks must be placed in a subsidiary once they cross a certain limit. This ensures that financial risks lie with the subsidiary and not with the Sanquin Foundation. As I said, there is only one production facility for plasma medicinal products. You can't cut it in half. It concerns the same workers and the same machines, which are used for both purposes. Think about the printing press. As a result, Sanquin also needs to include the production of plasma medicinal products for Dutch patients in the subsidiary. We have already covered that financial risk, but by means of a covenant. It states that the Sanquin Foundation will always be responsible for its legal task of producing plasma medicines for Dutch patients. In the present bill we want to anchor this public law, not in a covenant, but by law. Such a construction can no longer be arranged by means of a covenant; this can only be done by means of a ministerial decision. I'll take that as an extra guarantee. The bill also ensures that it is only after the Minister's agreement that Sanquin is allowed to carry out legal tasks by third parties. All in all, this legislative proposal thus leads to more certainty for Dutch patients who depend on blood products, while at the same time Sanquin has more security of existence and can also provide continuity in the future. And that's in the interest of a lot of people, and actually of all of us. I would like to say this to you before I come to answer the questions. First of all, the questions raised by Mrs Kooiman. Only the performance of public tasks and the rejection of commercial tasks is not sufficient, so her first question was. As a result of all kinds of developments in the past, such as the spread of HIV infections worldwide, the economic and social pressure and the emergence of synthetic alternatives to coagulation factors, many European sister organisations in Sanquin have either abandoned or closed plasma drug production by selling to for-profit companies. Sanquin, and now subsidiary SPP, have managed to maintain itself as a relatively small player. This construction can only be maintained if the production facilities, the printing press, can be used optimally. The Dutch market is too small for optimal occupancy. That is why scaling up is necessary if the Netherlands is to maintain its own blood supply. This guarantees the plasma medicines from Dutch plasma for Dutch patients also for the future. This is at the heart of the intention of the bill. Homely, why are you making the law? To separate the risks between the foundation and the biggest daughter, SPP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. Of course, the SP would have preferred that there were no risks at all. Why don't we take France as an example, where we can keep that plasma supply in public hands? Can't we learn from that? Or maybe we can't find the collaboration to keep what's public, or should be, in public hands at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	If you did, you couldn't use that factory, that printing press, for third parties, and you couldn't generate any revenue from it either. That is the big advantage of SPP: that we can deploy that production facility. SPP has been making a profit for several years in a row. That profit should not put it in its own pocket; it must go to the foundation and is therefore in that foundation. In doing so, we are reducing the blood price in the Netherlands, and frankly I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	That is not entirely true, because the top people, the managers and directors of those commercial e.g., may earn whatever they want; they do not fall under the Top Income Standards Act. And so there can also be profit made with public plasma, to fill pockets with it. I'm not saying this is happening right now. But in fact we do not know that because this is not public; other colleagues have already spoken about it. So again, why don't we learn from France and look for that cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	I repeat my answer: because I think it is very useful that Sanquin's production capacity should be used more widely than only for the Dutch needs. After all, then Dutch money should also be added, because Sanquin is not able to save himself financially for the longer term. These additional revenues are therefore needed, and very useful. I also think it can be very good to work for third parties. The profit that is made with this is for the benefit of the foundation. To be honest, I was expecting your point about the rewards, so I already checked whether this is the case, so whether the directors of those e.g. all comply with the WNT rules. That's the case. I have a few more questions to answer, including those of Mrs De Vries, but I would have liked to say later in the debate: if we want to have that insight, we must also have the daughter's annual accounts submitted to us explicitly. That seems to me to be a good idea, but there is also an amendment on this subject which still needs to be tabled. But I can imagine that we want transparency and clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mrs. Kooiman, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The SP also likes that transparency, but still. You are assuming a very positive case, namely that profits are being made. But at worst, the e.g. suffers loss, or goes bankrupt, and this has consequences for the blood supply. Not the commercial branch, but the public branch. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	Sure. The board of the Sanquin Foundation always has a duty of care to see what happens in those subsidiaries, so it's not just that it stands there and looks at how things go wrong. Then there are always interventions and conversations possible between the mother and the daughter. So I don't think the chances of it going wrong are great, and I think that the chances of public blood supply in the Netherlands being put at risk by that are even smaller. Mr. Chairman. There were a few more questions from Mrs. Kooiman. She asked why the private tasks were placed in a commercial branch of Sanquin. Plasma medicines are of great importance to patients, often severely ill. That is why I think it is very important that the Netherlands has its own provision. This guarantees the supply to a certain extent. Allowing the Foundation to carry out its legal tasks without increasing its scale is not efficient and is not sustainable in the long term. This is guaranteed for the future by SPP carrying out the statutory tasks related to plasma medicinal products. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Ellemeet asked a question about residual risks. Can the Minister rule out that the foundation could be compromised in the event of the bankruptcy of an e.g.? The answer is: as long as the parent company, i.e. the foundation, fulfils its duty of care towards the creditors of the subsidiaries, a bankruptcy of the e.g. will not affect the activities of the foundation and thus the statutory tasks. Of course, that doesn't mean there's no more risk. There will always be a certain residual risk, but it is so small that it does not jeopardise the security of blood supply. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kooiman further asked: who provides opportunities for the production of plasma medicines such as SPP BV that can no longer be exported? The answer is: if SPP BV can no longer carry out its tasks, then the foundation is again responsible for finding another performer. This can be done, for example, by looking for another producer who can produce plasma medicines from the Netherlands, or by taking control of the production itself. So the foundation can do that itself again, but she can also find another producer for it. That could be a Dutch producer; that could also be a foreign producer. Then there is Mrs Kooiman's question about breast milk donation. Sanquin has no role in the collection of breast milk. That's done by the VUmc. VUmc orders Sanquin to test donors. So we shouldn't be with Sanquin for that, we should be with VUmc. I'd be happy to ask. To be honest, I haven't had that conversation yet. But in the context of this bill, it is not a task for Sanquin and it is not going to be. When I look at you like that, I don't think you'd find it that difficult. That's entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes, that was entrapment, Minister. I give Mrs Kooiman the opportunity to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	I am very grateful that at least this Minister wishes to enter into the discussion, even though this is not part of this debate. But Sanquin does test these women. They're lying on their childbirth, but they're supposed to get there. Surely a better solution can be found for this. If, apart from the VUmc, the Minister also wants to talk to Sanquin to see how the combination can be optimized for these women, I am very grateful to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	In my introduction to all major medical institutions, the VUmc is also mentioned, so I am willing to take a little effort, great pleasure to include that subject. That's what I'm telling you. Then I come to the questions raised by Mrs De Vries of the VVD Group. It is true that I have not yet received the text of the amendment. Mrs De Vries has put forward an amendment, but even if I do not have the text, let me say something about it. If I understand correctly, the amendment obliges Sanquin not only to submit the accounts of the Sanquin Foundation to me, but also to those of the subsidiaries. That is the spirit of the amendment. As far as I'm concerned, it's a good idea to get daughter's accounts as well. I notice from your Chamber that you are interested in that subject. I have also tasted this in Mrs Van den Berg's rather comprehensive series of questions. So should the amendment reach us, I will say that I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I'll get the financial statements. I get it in general. I'm getting a ticket that says: you already have the amendment. That makes it a lot easier. Thank you very much for the amendment. I leave the opinion on the amendment to your Chamber, Mr President. I didn't see it, but I got it. Now Sanquin can give me insight. With the support of the amendment, it should provide me with that insight, not only at foundation level but also at e.g. level. I hope I have answered this point correctly. How is the House of Representatives involved in decisions on non-legislative activities? As it concerns non-legislative activities, I am indirectly involved as a minister. So Sanquin doesn't always have to inform me. But Sanquin is listening to this subject, so that she is proactively informing us is actually usance. I hope she wants to do this, too. If I'm informed, I can inform you as well. I see that you appreciate that information. But because it concerns non-legislative tasks, no procedure has been agreed for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	I understand. But the demand was more focused on the general measure of governance, which also sets the percentage of non-legislative tasks. I believe that this is an important point, because it also determines the balance sheet in the organisation and the risks. The question was how the House of Representatives is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	I'll just grab another folder. Can I just park that question for a second? I come to your questions, Mrs De Vries. Another question from Mrs De Vries concerned efficiency and costs. Why are blood prices in the Netherlands so high? Are there sufficient incentives to produce efficiently? As I tried to point out in my introductory words, we in the Netherlands, unlike abroad, are simply to include all costs in the blood price, including the costs for research and security measures. As far as I am concerned, this efficiency is sufficiently ensured by the way in which the funds available to the blood bank are developed. I have received a whole list, which is already with the Members of Parliament, of the costs involved in the price of blood. They concern the recruitment and retention of donors, the donor service, so that the purchasing locations remain as accessible as possible to donors, the distribution of the purchasing locations, the medical examinations and screening of donors, the testing of donations and so on. We also know the blood price of some countries around us, but we do not know all of them and we do not know what definition they are using. There's always a difference. I asked Sanquin to include this issue again in the annual report. They said: we have already offered information on several occasions. Because it is sometimes business-confidential information, it is difficult to obtain. It's hard to figure out what the ingredients of the blood price are in the world. I think that at least we are making a good effort to clarify the blood price in the Netherlands. Then there is competition and a level playing field. Why is the Minister for Medical Care going to regulate the price and not the Authority Consumer & Market? The Minister for Medical Care is also the one who approves the Sanquin budget and policy plan. Sanquin should also report to the Minister on the implementation of the legal tasks. This will allow the Minister to monitor the specific competition rules contained in this bill and allow the Minister to take into account the implications for the Sanquin budget and, therefore, the costs of health care in the Netherlands. The choice was also made to base the price of plasma as a raw material on the average price on the European market. Specific knowledge on the pharmaceutical market is available within my ministry. Such knowledge is not available in advance at the ACM. Another question from Mrs De Vries was: do other countries also apply rules for the supply of plasma to donors? After all, it makes money. As I said, SPP carries out plasma medicinal products production on behalf of a third party, for example that American manufacturer. The plasma is then supplied by the client; it is therefore American plasma. The import of that plasma requires a permit from the Minister of Medical Care. Then the demand for diversity among donors. Mrs De Vries also raised the question of whether there are sufficient donors. I'm getting positive messages from Sanquin about that. Fortunately, there has been sufficient supply over the last few years: 50,000 donors added. Many also go away, but on balance the number is sufficient to meet the Dutch need. Then there's the point of diversity. Sanquin approaches these target groups through interest groups. There is therefore an active effort to ensure or pay attention to this diversity. Then there is the issue of non-statutory activities. Does the Minister share the view that delivery of stem cells and cord blood does not belong in the foundation? Can it be disposed of? The aim of the bill is to protect blood supply from risks arising from commercial activities of the Blood Supply Organization. Sanquin's main commercial activities were in the production of plasma medicines for third parties. These are now housed in the subsidiary SPP. The other activities, such as the umbilical cord blood bank and donors approve on behalf of the Vu Medical Centre's breast milk bank, are very limited in scope and not commercial in nature. These activities therefore pose no risk to the security and quality of blood supply. That is why I do not think it is necessarily necessary for these activities to be placed outside the foundation. Mrs De Vries asked a question about the price of blood. I've already gone into that. And then the question of whether a faster donation is possible for the MSM contacts. Mrs Dijkstra also spoke about the twelve months waiting period after the last MSM contact. This is necessary because early infection is not always detected by laboratory tests. Figures from the Council of Europe show that in three European countries which have been waiting for 12 months for a number of years, this measure has not affected the safety of blood supply. And those are the countries that Mrs Dijkstra mentioned. No data are yet available on whether this safety is guaranteed even if the waiting period is shorter. That's what research is going on. The Netherlands is actively participating in this. I would say to Mrs De Vries and Mrs Dijkstra that if this brings new points of view, I will gladly report them to the Chamber. I have already spoken about rejecting the non-legislative questions. I hope that I have answered all of Mrs De Vries' questions. Then I come to Mrs Ellemeet's questions. I have answered a number of questions before, but there are three more. Mrs Ellemeet has asked if the bill is sufficiently future-proof. Is there flexibility for future developments? In our opinion, that is the case. For example, if the position of plasma drug production changes or Sanquin sees opportunities to save costs by outsourcing other parts of the performance of the legal tasks, that possibility is actually embedded in the legislative proposal. So future-proof? I would say that is the case. Then the point of the AMvB. Mrs De Vries has already spoken about this. How is the Chamber involved in this? This measure will limit the scope of the non-legislative activities that may be carried out within the Foundation. So you have a foundation and underneath you have the private activities. In the Foundation, therefore, a certain percentage may be used for non-legislative tasks. That percentage will be set at 10% of the Foundation's turnover. Why was 10% chosen? I therefore join with the border which is also used for public benefit institutions. In order to prevent occasional and small-scale activities leading to loss of anbi status, anbi-organisations may carry out non-profit activities of 10%. So I want to draw that parallel. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I would like to make an exception for staff and group services provided for the benefit of the subsidiaries. The limit for these activities shall be fixed at the same level as the budgeted size of staff and group services for the Foundation. Another limit is justified here, because the foundation has economies of scale of the joint execution of the staff and group services. Therefore, the 10% rule does not apply here, but it will more often be a higher percentage. It'll be 50-50 max. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered the question as to how I would like to give an answer to that AMvB. Mrs Ellemeet also asked a question about the number of donors. I think I've already answered that question. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have given the answers to the previous speakers in the right order. I am not quite sure about that in the case of Mrs Van den Berg's reply, but I will start somewhere and Mrs Van den Berg will let me know if I have left anything I have not answered. That is not the intention, of course. 1. Can the Minister confirm that there are no financial problems at Plasma BV, so at SPP BV? Mr. Chairman. That is not the case at the moment. Of course Sanquin keeps a close eye on that. That supervisory element is also included in this bill. But there are no financial problems. Black numbers are being written. We can check this in the annual accounts we have seen so far. I have answered earlier about the cost of the whole blood. Then determining profit for legal and non-legal activities, how do you allocate it? Mr President, first of all, profits of the Foundation are mentioned in the annual accounts. The separate financial statements and the holding company's annual accounts show the division between legal and non-legal tasks, and thus also an understanding of the allocation of profits. What about the investigation into the umbilical cord blood bank and how does transfer take place to another bank? That's work in progress. The call for tenders has been launched. Around the summer, I expect the results of the investigation. I'd like to wait for that investigation and then we'll decide on the future. So I can't say anything about a possible transfer right now, but that's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	An interruption by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	That investigation, and whoever's going to do it, will be done with all due care. But I am particularly concerned that it should be included as a condition that what it is now outsourced to is not just outsourced by outsourcing. That is where we are concerned because of two points: the quality and hygiene of the person who is going to do it, but also the working conditions of the people who are going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	Now that Mrs Van den Berg is so precise on this, I feel obliged to take these two points and address them in the results of the study on which I will inform you. Then the definition of blood products and intermediates. Mrs van den Berg says that this is still unclear and asks how the Minister can remove this ambiguity. I just received the evaluation of the Blood Supply Act and sent it to your Chamber. I will add my position to that. I will deal with this issue. Then there is the question of a very different order: can daughters also give guarantees? Yes, in principle, subsidiaries can issue guarantees. If I think that is necessary, I can limit those subsidiaries carrying out statutory tasks at the time I give permission to carry out those statutory tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	You're saying that that daughter can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	Basically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	It can therefore do so for non-legislative tasks without consulting the Minister. It is then true that in the event of a daughter's bankruptcy, the mother remains liable in any case, but also because of the laundry list that is mentioned is even more liable. That is why we say: we do not need to be informed as a Chamber about every detail and decision, but we do need to be informed that the Minister will be given more powers so that a company cannot give guarantees and shares which have an effect on the mother afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	Sanquin, of course, does not want this kind of risk either, so Mrs Van den Berg's question about the guarantees that subsidiaries can issue is actually a theoretical one. So that is possible, that possibility exists, simply because it is reserved for a company and should not be used, or that a proper conversation is needed between the subsidiary and the foundation board. That's as ready as a whistle. We talked to Sanquin about this. He believes that the provision of guarantees by subsidiaries will not be very frequent in practice, because they also have a duty of care. They can't get rid of their duty of care. I think that is a very important point. We will soon have an insight into the annual accounts by subsidiary. In this way, I think we have properly secured the need for information on our part. Mr. Chairman. Another question is: why do you allow the legislative proposal to transfer legal tasks to third parties? Does the Blood Supply Organization have 100% control over the statutory tasks? It must be clear that with the bill the Blood Supply Organization will not be allowed to transfer the statutory tasks to a third party. The Blood Supply Organisation may, however, carry out legal tasks after the Minister has given his consent. It is therefore a question of carrying out work. Think of testing donations by another lab. The work is, as it were, outsourced to another by means of an agreement. Responsibility for the proper performance of these statutory tasks remains with the Blood Supply Organisation. The final responsibility cannot be transferred. For the transfer of goods, that is a bit different. If goods are handed over in ownership, think of testing equipment....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the difference between the transfer of work and the transfer of goods. When transferring work you can recall some things, but when transferring goods you lose those goods. Mrs. Van den Berg talked about real estate. I checked again if there's a lot of real estate in the organization and that's not actually the case. It's just the head office. You're allowed to fuck with that? No, you can't. If profits are made there, it will benefit the foundation again. So that money can't go to another game either. Mr. Chairman. How to prevent public money being distributed as a profit? The WBV states that the Blood Supply Organisation must not be profit-oriented. That's why Sanquin is a foundation. This prevents public money from being distributed as a profit. What about the discussion with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance on limiting non-legal activities within the Foundation? That conversation's going on. I would also like to include the results in the AMvB that I have just spoken about. But the results are not yet ready. There's still work to be done. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Van den Berg's question: can you put the Chamber at the highest level in advance if permission is given for the carrying out of legal duties by other than the Sanquin Foundation? If this bill enters into force, only the statutory task of plasma drug production will be authorised to be carried out by SPP, Sanquin Plasma Products. At the moment, this legal task is already covered in a covenant. It's gonna be legalized soon. So you are already aware of that. In the event of new authorisations, I will also have to take into account the possibility that Sanquin should act quickly, which may mean that there is little time to inform the Chamber in advance. But I don't think it's going that fast. In general, Sanquin is able to inform us quickly by "us" I mean the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which allows me to inform your Chamber quickly. If that gets exciting for once, then it may not be in advance, but then it can be very soon afterwards. This also seems practical to me for the business activities that belong to Sanquin. The next question is a very different one. Can the Minister indicate what other sources are available for the supply of stem cells? In addition to stem cells from cord blood, stem cells can be supplied from peripheral blood or bone marrow. I read it, but I have no knowledge of it. I hope it's a good answer. Yes, there's still a lot to learn, Mrs. Kooiman. You're gonna miss all that, but I'm glad you're laughing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	Another question. Can I inform the Chamber annually about the financial situation and risks of the Sanquin Foundation, including its subsidiaries? I can promise to inform the Chamber annually about the financial situation and risks of the Sanquin Foundation. I have argued this before, also in the direction of Mrs De Vries. I do not now have the annual reports and annual accounts of the individual subsidiaries, but if Mrs De Vries' amendment is adopted, then the Ministry will have access to the individual documents of those subsidiaries. On that basis, I can inform the Chamber of the financial situation of the subsidiaries on an annual basis. There is one thing to it: it may be that there are company confidential data. I can't just share it with the Chamber. This concerns the public information contained in annual accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mrs van den Berg has a comment or a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	One question, because I believe that a company should mention this in the annual reports, even if there are certain risks, litigation or other issues. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	Absolutely. That's public information. If we can focus on what is in the annual accounts and the explanatory notes to them, then we have a good picture of the management of the companies, including the subsidiaries. But I would like to make the point that there is also other business-confidential information that we do not find in the annual accounts. I don't have that at my disposal, so I can't pass it on either. That is just the restriction I would like to make. Does the transfer of non-essential tasks only take place after the Minister's consent? Non-essential tasks include the transport of blood products. I repeat the question. Does the transfer of non-essential tasks only take place after the Minister's consent? The answer to that: not necessarily. In the case of non-essential tasks which are not complex in nature, the Minister's consent is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	That is not the point about which we as a Chamber want information. I refer in particular to matters such as catering and transport, which are mentioned as examples. If we hear stories about false constructions somewhere in the country, it's catering and transportation. We are not so much concerned with ensuring the quality of the product as with the working conditions of the people. That is why we wanted a guarantee in this respect, in the sense that the Minister could do an extra check on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	That guarantee is not provided because the consent requirement does not apply here. Maybe it's a good thing I'm taking this point to Sanquin. I will ask Sanquin to pay attention to this in the annual report and the annual accounts. I've already spoken to the Sanquin board of directors. I asked what would happen if, for example, the transport of blood products did not go well. The answer was very clear: if a carrier is not good, then the carrier goes out and another carrier is hired. That seems to me to be a very practical way of working. I do not think that all this needs to be'millimeterd' in an annual report, but attention to the subject is appropriate, with some limitation because I believe that this is part of Sanquin's operations. So if Sanquin wants to make a comment on this in the annual accounts, I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mrs. Van den Berg. Finishing at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. Again, we are not concerned about all this being included in the annual report. If a carrier is not good, then of course there will be another carrier, but it is often not a question of the quality of the transport is not good, the point is that the working conditions package of the person carrying it is in a separate construction that is not really acceptable. That is the only point of interest that we would like to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yes, Mr President, if we make it so small, then I would say that this is an aspect of business management and that the management of Sanquin should be aware of that. If this does not go well, we will undoubtedly read it back in the newspaper which has a lot of attention to this issue, or in another newspaper. How is it prevented that legal tasks can be transferred to third parties on which profits can be made? How are legal tasks then guaranteed? Legal tasks may only be transferred if there are no unnecessary risks to the performance of the other legal tasks. That is precisely what I think is at the heart of my supervisory task of authorising. I hope that I have answered Mrs van den Berg's questions. I have just one question for Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	There is still one question left, I suspect. Mrs Van den Berg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	In general terms, we had previously indicated that we might wish to table an amendment on both the powers of the Minister and the information to the Chamber. With regard to the powers of the Minister, I think the Minister has explained very well where he can intervene and where else we will read it in the newspaper. But can I conclude that the Minister is going to inform the Chamber of all the crucial decisions on this dossier? Otherwise we would come up with an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	What I was planning is this. If the De Vries amendment is adopted, I can see accounts and explanations. Then I find that a convenient package to study for yourself and also share with your Room. I can assume that this way we will be informed about crucial developments that are taking place at Sanquin, both for the short-term sustainability and for long-term blood products. This seems to me to be the most concrete commitment that I can make to the Chamber on a combination of policies and on implementation, including aspects of business management. Perhaps a few questions from Mrs Dijkstra. "In abundance" in the sense that I have already dealt with many points. The unfair competition in plasma medicines: who will see to it? The bill includes the sale of plasma medicinal products at market prices. That is what the Authority is monitoring and can be done in response to signals from competitors. It might work that way at the ACM. Then one of the ham questions, perhaps I should have started with that: why is self-sufficiency so important for the Netherlands? I think I said it in part in the introduction. These may be severely ill patients, some of whom are dependent on plasma medicines for a lifetime. Think of patients with congenital autoimmune disease or with immune impairment. We are dealing here with a fragile supply in the sense that the raw material is scarce and that the world market consists of only a few players, so that the loss of production capacity can have a direct impact on the market. I think it is important, we think it is important, that the Netherlands retains its own production capacity, so that we are not entirely dependent on suppliers from abroad. The last question I have to ask is: is there any difference in the Minister's authorisation to transfer goods or to transfer work? I think I answered that question. If you hand over a good one, you'll lose it. If you hand over work, you can get it back. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you. I see that Mrs Dijkstra has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	I understand that the Minister sums it up in his head, but I had asked a slightly more detailed question about that permission that the Minister must give when ownership has been transferred. Who makes the assessment that there are consequences or no consequences for the blood supply, i.e. the legal tasks? I'm gonna have to figure out how I asked the question. The Minister for Medical Care must give permission if the Blood Supply Organisation transfers non-legal activities and the ownership of the related goods to another legal person and if such transfer of ownership affects the performance of those statutory tasks. But there's no need for permission if it doesn't affect the blood supply. My question was: who makes the assessment if there are any consequences for the blood supply? And is it always clear and understandable whether there are any consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	To be honest, I think that's always insightful in the praview. I do not think that the issue is really involved in the transfer of goods. Transferring the test equipment: it will be. When it comes to whether the transfer of work has consequences for the Blood Supply Organization, it is the Minister who has to give the consent. So there really is a double valve on that, because we do every time whether the minister does the sister or something, but the management of Sanquin is of course also a very important player in that. So, domestically said, double-seated keeps it better. It is here first the management of Sanquin, but then also the minister who gives the consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	All right, that was indeed the question and the Minister clarifies this in the last answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister. I have the appreciation of Mrs De Vries and others' amendment. But I have not yet heard the Minister's appreciation of the amendment to item No. 7 of the member Kooiman. Can the Minister give that now, or does he want to come back to it in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	I'd give it to you, but I'm just looking for the text, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u53	Oh, that was fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u54	It is a fantastic amendment, I hear Mrs Kooiman say. Yes, in your last or penultimate debate, Mrs Kooiman. You'd almost be fond of... No, Mr. Chairman. I have the lyrics right here. The applicant considers that a blood supply is a provision of general interest. I have, I think, argued in detail that I believe that tasks can also be organised in a subsidiary so that we can use this plasma drug production, that plant, that printing press also for other parties. That's gonna get us extra income. We are not going to make a profit for shareholders or for any kind of bag, because that profit goes to Sanquin. With this we can print the blood price in the Netherlands. So I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the first term on the part of the cabinet. I thank the Minister for his first-term contribution. We're moving on to the second term of office. I would like to welcome Mrs Kooiman behind the cathedral for her final contribution in plenary. Mrs. Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have a whole stack of motions here... No, this is a joke. Mr President, it will only be your last plenary debate here, such an extremely exciting debate. I would like to say that it is "bloody collapsing' in this context. No, seriously. It has been a very technical subject, but a very important one. Because, of course, it is about maintaining our blood supply and our legal functions, and in particular about our plasma supply that is commercial. And unfortunately, this bill doesn't change that much. That is also why I have tabled an amendment to keep the plasma supply, our public task, public. The Minister will say, "God, we're gonna make profits." But I'm actually assuming less good times, too, if we don't make profits. Let's say it's a loss and it might go bankrupt, which the FD often refers to. This has consequences for the Sanquin Foundation and for our whole blood supply. That is why I wanted to separate it in the amendment. That is also a fundamental choice. It's a choice that the SP stands for and that's why I made it today. Mr. Chairman. We can, of course, support the De Vries amendment. If the Kooiman amendment fails, at least we want to maintain that transparency. So we're happy to support that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, of course, I would like to thank our staff very much. I am very happy to have seen you as President, but I would also like to thank the Ministry very much. They're probably listening, too. Sorry about all the questions you've had to answer! I have gladly submitted them; I hope you have answered them with pleasure. My successor Henk van Gerven is someone who continues my tradition quite well. You know him. I see nod! I wish the Minister a great deal of pleasure with my successor and pleasure in this work. I would like to thank my fellow Members. It's been an honor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u57	In any case, Mrs Kooiman, I would like to thank you very much. Tomorrow the farewell is foreseen here in the plenary. The President of our Chamber will undoubtedly address you with a number of warm and heartfelt words. In any case, I would like to thank you very much for your contribution, also to this debate, and to congratulate you on the commitment you have received from the Minister on a personal note in your last contribution to this debate. Thank you very much for your contribution and you're doing well. Thank you, Mrs. Kooiman. Then I will go to the second speaker, Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your cooperation with Mrs Kooiman. It was short, because I have only been a spokesperson on this subject since November. I hope that Mrs Kooiman will be doing very well in the future, wherever she may be. Then back to the bill. The amendment had indeed been tabled on Friday. Thanks for getting the judgment room. I think it is important for transparency and for understanding the risks that always remain. If you know the risks, you can send them. I would like to ask a few questions about the Minister's response to the issue of efficiency within Sanquin. The Minister explained how the price calculation would take place. The question is: how can we look at it for the future? Is there such a thing as a benchmark? Because I want Sanquin to do the blood supply in a good way, but I also want to do it in the cheapest way possible. In a safe way, of course, that stands first and also as cheap as possible for the patients. Can the Minister say anything more about that? One question remained as to the provision of information for plasma donors. Plasma is made available by donors without payment, but it is used for a commercial product. We therefore believe that you should clarify this to the plasma donors in advance. Can the Minister say anything about that? And then one final point. No, two more points; I shouldn't go too fast. One question remains. It has not been answered in the report either, so I always start to get a little suspicious as to why this is not being answered. We would like to be clear about the demonstrable adverse consequences of giving consent or refusing permission to carry out tasks by others. We believe that it should be clarified in advance, because this is also part of the legal history. Finally, as far as I am concerned, the Minister has indicated that 10% of the non-legislative tasks may be carried out in the Foundation. That's going to be settled in a general measure of governance, I suppose. There will also be a percentage for staff and group services. My question was a little broader, because I think that we in the House of Representatives should be informed about this. Are all these general measures of governance, ministerial arrangements and policies that have been announced actually ready when the law enters into force? And I would still like us to be well informed about the other percentages of staff and group services. I think that's important to keep the risks clear. So perhaps the Minister can still make a commitment that we in the Chamber will be further informed about the fixing of these percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. Then I will go to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would also like to take the opportunity to wish Mrs Kooiman all the best for the future. Thank you for the very pleasant cooperation. I really liked how Mrs Kooiman always added a personal note to the debates, as she did today. I would then like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer to all the questions. I welcome some of the commitments, namely that there will be further information later on on the definition of intermediate and blood products, that the Minister will look into the possibility of through-use and working conditions in outsourcing umbilical cord research, which will then be released from the summer, and that the Minister will inform the Chamber of all the crucial decisions that he may take, possibly afterwards. I would also like to join with Mrs De Vries in asking whether the general measures of governance, the regulation and the policy rules are all transparent at the same time. Finally, Mr President. What was also apparent from my contribution is that we consider it very important to be well informed as a Chamber, including about the risks. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a separation of legal and non-legislative tasks within the Sanquin Foundation and subsidiaries is not fully feasible;]] [[noting that, as a parent company, the foundation is potentially exposed to financial risks in relation to subsidiaries or subsidiaries. undertakings in which the foundation has an interest or shares;]] [[considers that this is undesirable as the parent company has public tasks and is responsible, inter alia, for the adequate collection and provision of whole blood, plasma and plasma medicinal products for the Dutch market;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber annually of all relevant matters relating to the financial situation and risks of the Sanquin Foundation including its subsidiaries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34815-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. There have been two further questions which I would like to put to the Minister. I've been talking about this unexpected situation. This is what I asked the Minister. The law states that the authorisation must be applied for at least four months before the intended date on which the work is carried out by another legal person. The Minister will then have to decide within three months, but what is an unexpected situation that may arise? Is there so much time? If there isn't, how is that settled? I had another question about how blood and plasma donors are informed that their body material, which they donate for free, could also be used for products made in the commercial branch. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you, Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u63	I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care to answer in the second term and to appreciate the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr. Chairman. There were no new questions in Mrs Kooiman's speech. I would also like to thank you very much for your cooperation. I have learned that members of the SP Group also read The Financial Daily well, and I am pleased about that. You didn't expect that, did you, Mrs. Kooiman? That's right. It's a weird phrase. Thank you very much, though. I would like to say this to Mrs De Vries. I think that the amendment on the annual accounts has been sufficiently exchanged in the first period. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the point of the blood price benchmark. In the first term, I wanted to argue that it is quite difficult to obtain a good price comparison. We know that some countries are subsidising, we just don't know how much; they're not telling us exactly. So I'd like to leave this one for a while. In other words, if we get more clarity on this from public sources, I think I can very well share it with you. I'd like that, too. It's also a way to have the conversation with Sanquin. But comparing apples to pears doesn't give us much. It will be a bit of a search for what is not business-confidential information, for subsidies from other countries, for what is included in the definition. So, frankly, I can't promise you a clean bechmark. Then there is the issue of information to plasma donors, which Mrs De Vries asked for, just like Mrs Dijkstra. Are donors informed about commercial activities? Yeah, that's right. They get this information through, among other things, the Blood relatives magazine. In addition, general information is provided to donors. So they're actually given that information. Then the demonstrable adverse consequences of refusing permission. I'm still looking for the situation we're talking about. Perhaps, therefore, Mrs De Vries' question has not been properly answered; for which excuse. I think it will be very dependent on the case. "Providable adverse effects" is a kind of umbrella concept to assess whether legal tasks are not at risk. That is actually the criterion by which I wish to assess demonstrably adverse consequences for refusal of authorisation. Mrs De Vries also asked whether AMvB, regulations, policy rules, if I may say so, will be ready when the bill comes into force. Yes, that will be the case. I come to Mrs van den Berg's contribution: the vote on the motion. Actually, I was planning to do this. If the De Vries amendment is adopted, we will have the Foundation's annual accounts and also the bv's. I thought I'd make that a nice set with a bow around it, and I'll send it to you. In addition, it is a good use to inform you annually in a letter made in autumn about important developments. Then let's both do it. I admit that I continue to submit a letter of this kind to you every autumn, and that, following the adoption of the De Vries amendment, I will see to it that you receive that collection of annual accounts. I think you have a good set of information that is important for our conversation here and that also leaves enough room for Sanquin to have and keep his own responsibility. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the unexpected situation that Mrs Dijkstra talked about. Also there I really had to play loan neighbor: what would be an unexpected situation? If there is a disaster at Sanquin where blood safety cannot be guaranteed, action must be taken without delay. Then a four-month period is a gotspe and a three-month period for a minister's response cannot therefore be allowed. It is therefore necessary to act without delay on Sanquin's notification or on the inspection declaration. Then I also feel obliged to inform you of this without delay. Unexpected situations that take so much time, we couldn't think of, but if there is a very nasty, disastrous situation, I think that other mechanisms should come into force. I admit that I will act on that, not just in the direction of Sanquin. I honestly think Sanquin's gonna be on my sidewalk faster than the other way around, but that's gonna be a game. I think it is important that I inform your Chamber very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u65	Minister, may I ask you to give another explicit judgment on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u66	Judgement Chamber, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you. Then there is another interruption by Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u68	The Minister has indicated that the AMvBs and the entire bups, as he calls them, are ready for the entry into force of the law. Well, that's nice, of course. He has indicated: 10% non-legislative tasks. But he's also going to fix a percentage for the staff and group services. I wonder if we will be informed about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u69	No, I want to do this exactly as I have just informed you: there must be maximum equality when it comes to staff and group services. I will also put that in writing for you, so that you can read my message at that point before the entire bups come into effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you. The Minister has come to the end of the second-term reply. That is why we have come to the end of the process of dealing with this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u71	Voting on the law, the amendments and the motion will take place next Tuesday. After the suspension, at 2 p.m., we will continue the presentation of the annual reports of the National Ombudsman, the Veteran Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman. I shall suspend the meeting with thanks to all the participants and to the Minister, with his support, for his coming to the Chamber. An extra word of thanks to Mrs Kooiman for her contribution to her last debate.
