ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State. Thank you for joining us. We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Bishop of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. He has five minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. This bill was on the agenda last week to be dismissed as a hammer piece. When preparing last week's agenda, I thought: do we fully respect the meaning of this bill? As a result, I have asked for it to be hammered, as it is called. Not because there is a political discussion about it, fortunately not, but it is more than a business arrangement, a technical arrangement, which is often the case with hammer pieces. This is a matter that affects parents' lives very deeply. Losing a child is about the worst thing you can experience in your life. This applies to parents who have been allowed to take care of their child for some time, but this is no less true for parents whose child dies before birth or just after birth. The children of that last group of parents are the subject of this bill. Two years ago, more than 82,000 people signed their signatures. They asked for recognition of their deceased child in the Basic Registration Persons. The SGP greatly appreciates the initiative taken by these parents. We do have a question about the scope of the legislative proposal. From the documents we understand that all parents who live in the Netherlands and who want to, can have their child registered on their own personal card. Does this also mean that it does not matter whether a child died after a pregnancy of 13 or 36 weeks and whether this happened in 2018 or 1990? We're assuming the Secretary of State can fully confirm this. It is also important to make it clear to all concerned that this legislation has been introduced. Five years ago, the SGP asked basic registration persons, as it is called, for recognition of the name of a lifeless born child in the municipality's basic registration. The time was clearly not ripe for that. We didn't get enough support for that. That is why we are all the more pleased that the time has come and that an arrangement has now been made. The SGP would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State for the legislative proposal that is now before us. It responds to a broad-based desire from society and explicitly to the recognition of the value of unborn life. We therefore wholeheartedly support the proposal. The SGP is keen to see this bill enter into force quickly. Mr President, I needed to bring that up, not to highlight the political debate or whatever, but just for a moment. That seemed valuable to me. Thank you for the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u3	You did. Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. When this law was on the schedule as a hammer piece, I contacted the initiators and asked them the question: what do you want? Do you want treatment or as a hammerpiece? The initiators then indicated: just do a hammer piece, then it can be implemented as soon as possible. I think that reflects very well what the drive has been of these initiators and that you can get very far with that. We're standing here today on their behalf. That is why I should like to express my gratitude to a number of people. Natasja Bos, Mandy Rut and Petra and Terence Polak for starting the petition. I would also like to thank Professor Jaap Doek and Ombudsman from Amsterdam Arre Zuurmond, who helped the process, and Jeannette Rietberg, Mieke Maliegaard and Roos Schlikker, who were closely involved in the process. And finally, of course, the 82,000 people who finally signed the petition. Mr. Chairman. I want to take you into the story of one of the initiators. She discovered in 2009 that her first-born child could not be found in government systems. She discovered this when applying for a passport for her second child. She gave birth to a full-bodied child, filed a report and buried her, yet her child was not found in the system. Incomprehensible for her and reason to start this petition. Because for her, her lifeless child was also part of her family. Her other children knew about the existence and at the dining table she was also regularly discussed. And they're just as proud of her as they are of the other kids. Only, her child wasn't found in the systems and she also had the idea, and in fact, that her family wasn't fully documented. That's how it all happened. I think this also reflects why that petition started. That is good, because the petition and the commitment of the initiators have also broken a taboo, that a large group of parents miscarriage means a loss of a child, that this is tangible for them, deserves recognition and must be visible, including in the systems of the government. For those who want it, I say it explicitly. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that this Secretary of State has not imposed a limitation in time. That means we won't have a discussion about it when it starts and when it doesn't. Just, with retroactive force for anyone who wants to. That's pretty special for a law. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State and the Cabinet for this. The parent's request has been really leading. Can the Secretary of State, Mr President, I think that this is good for the Acts, and my colleague from the SGP also indicated this to Mr SGP to whom this law applies and in what cases, what acts are made up and when a child is or is not included in the BRP? I think that's important. I think we can all dream about it here in the Chamber, but I think it is right for the Acts to repeat it. Mr. Chairman. We are also pleased that, in response to our questions, the Secretary of State has decided to amend the law on one point. When a child comes to life in a foreign country, a parent must make an oath or promise to the official of the municipality. On top of that, the parent also had to hand over a written statement from a doctor. To be honest, that seemed unnecessary and unnecessary to us. Data on children, if they are civil status data, can also be derived from a certificate and then this additional requirement does not apply. We are also pleased that the Secretary of State has recognised that this additional demand is undesirable. He also took over this, for which he thanked. To ensure that civil servants, but also funeral directors and hospitals, are soon well aware of this new law, a communication plan will be drawn up, together with the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs and the Ministry. That's great. I would ask this Secretary of State to involve the initiators, not just because of the content, but above all because of the communication, the form and the tone. I think we can learn a lot from that. Indeed, I believe that experience experts can contribute to this good treatment. Because we hear that this is not always optimal. There will now be a new law, so it is important that communication in terms of form and content runs smoothly. Mr. Chairman. On the website of the petition are many personal and emotional stories, which indicate exactly why this law is so important. Finally, I would like to read a comment on the site, because I think it sums up the essence of this proposal: "Sometimes, when I am alone, I whisper your name for a moment, so that the world can never forget that you existed." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you. Then Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. We are regularly discussing a legislative proposal in which we still have all kinds of critical questions to the government about the present proposal. Today, that's different. In this legislative proposal, my group is satisfied with the proposal before us for several reasons. First of all, it is important that the silent grief of many parents can now get more of a place. This bill does not, of course, remove the sad fact of a lifeless child, but it does ensure that the recognition of lifeless babies is better regulated. Mr. Chairman. Lifeless babies continue to exist for their parents. I myself am the oldest child in our family. But you're not our firstborn child, I was told. For me a little boy was born, Kemal, but he died very shortly afterwards unfortunately. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Voor mijn ouders heeft hij bestaan.]] Many years later I heard my mother call him in her prayers. And when she asked how many children she had, she always counted her first-born deceased child. Parents with an empty crib carry the grief for the rest of their lives. This applies both to parents of babies who die shortly after birth and to parents of lifeless babies. Today, with the adoption of this change of law, we can acknowledge the existence of lifeless babies. Hopefully this will help alleviate the grief of many parents. In addition, GroenLinks is pleased to see that the petition launched in 2016 by a number of parents has produced results, that the voice of so many people has been heard and that the desire of the initiators and the signatories is now being transformed into legal regulations. This is a good example of how democracy works and how a proposal ends up at the bottom of a legislative amendment. I would like to thank the initiators and, of course, the many signatories of the petition for their good work. Mr. Chairman. I have just said that I did not have any critical questions about this bill, but I do have some points that my group would like to clarify a little more from the Secretary of State. How exactly does the purpose of this law work in parts of our Kingdom, especially Caribbean Netherlands? Can the Secretary of State indicate how the registration of lifeless babies on the BES islands and in the other countries of our Kingdom is regulated by law? My group is pleased that the government, in cooperation with the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, will actively inform parents and municipalities once this bill has been adopted by both Chambers. Can the Secretary of State also inform us about the current state of play of the communication plan? Can he give us an impression of that? I share Mrs Bergkamp's contribution in this area. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to include the experience experts and initiators in the communication plan. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a quote from one of the initiators of the petition following the present bill: "The child may finally be there and there is no denying any part of my history anymore." Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you. Then Mr Van Raak of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The experience of a stillborn child is a pain that parents can never forget. It's a mourning that can never be fully processed. Parents carry the memory of the child with them forever. Parents are looking for a place in their lives for this child, but they're also looking for a place in the registration. Parents consider it important to give their stillborn child a place in the Basic Registration Persons. I would like to thank the initiators of the petition in 2015 and all signatories: 82,000 people. It shows the people that we do grant them that formal place. It is also a way of showing that bureaucracy can be human. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for the fact that it has been arranged. It is also regulated in a practical way: it is not mandatory, but it is a possibility that people can make use of. We do have the question of how people can find out. Can the Secretary of State tell us how this opportunity is made known to parents who have to deal with this terrible experience? I think it is very good that the Secretary of State says in the letter of amendment that it is no longer necessary to ask for a written statement from a doctor or midwife on the fact of birth. That condition has expired. I am very pleased with that, but of course it is now up to the civil servant to determine in each individual case whether a document can be drawn up on the basis of information provided by citizens. I was wondering on the basis of what information that would happen. Can we avoid very painful situations in which an official must conclude or conclude that such an act cannot be made? I've asked Parliament questions on the matter before. I asked for legislation, but I also asked for attention to be paid to the Civil Code, in which the painful sentence is still about the child: "If death comes into the world, it is deemed never to have existed." Legally, it is necessary, and the Secretary of State has been able to convince me that this provision is necessary, but I wonder whether we can think of another term for it covering the same legal burden. I also wonder, like Mrs Özütok, to what extent these arrangements will also apply to Bonaire, Saba and Statia. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. I call Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Name my name and I exist." That's what the initiator of the petition wrote to me. Recognition of the existence of children who have been born inanimate or die shortly thereafter is of great importance to these parents. Parents' grief is enormous when this happens to them. It also hurts if your child never existed before the law, because your child did indeed exist and the parents really became parents of this child. The petition, for which more than 82,000 signatures have been collected, has shown that it is a feeling that lives widely. I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the initiators, who are also present today in the public gallery. The Christian Union welcomes the fact that this bill will transpose into law the appeal of these parents and the many signatories to the petition. This makes it possible for the child to be included in the basic registration with the parents' data. In the course of the written examination of the legislative proposal, we asked a single question about the discretion of the civil servant to draw up the act. In response, the Government indicated that it trusts that, in view of the specific situation, this official will handle this generously and provide the requested document. I would like to underline this. The Christian Union Group can wholeheartedly support this bill. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the settlement of this. We hope that the law can be introduced very quickly, because this step will show that every life is valuable, no matter how short it has been and whether the child lived at birth or not. Today we are taking a step towards the recognition of these children. Name them and they exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. Mr Van der Molen from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a way, we are discussing a very small law compared to what is being discussed here in the Chamber, but I would like to call it a bit historical. It's a very substantial change. That led me to look for a historical fact to refer to. I was reminded that on March 30, 1852, the birth of a lifeless son of Theodorus van Gogh and Anna Cornelia Carbentus was registered in Zundert's birth register. There is still a tombstone on which is the name of that lifeless boy: Vincent van Gogh. Right on the day after a year the brother was born, the Vincent van Gogh who knows the whole world. Yet for that family that tombstone with that name was just as relevant as the brother who would follow and who would know the whole world. And yet there was no name in the birth register for his lifeless brother. Fortunately, there is now a bill for this to change, because even though the whole world doesn't know you, the people who love you know you, and in many cases they appreciate that name being included in the register. It is even more beautiful for this Chamber that it was based on an initiative, by the Katwijk Natasja Geyteman. 82,000 people have said: this is something we support. I think it is very nice to see that we can turn it into a law today. I also support all the calls to involve the initiators in the follow-up and the elaboration of this. For the CDA, it is important that people are not only properly addressed by the government in the legal sense, but that we also pay attention to the feelings of those involved. This is particularly true for parents who, against all wishes and expectations, or sometimes even during pregnancy, are confronted with the fact that what they had so eagerly hoped for and longed for comes into the world without life. That is precisely what we, as a government, have to take into account in the procedures and in the administration when the parents need it. Mr. Chairman. Compliments to the Secretary of State and to the Cabinet for the careful way in which this has been worked out. We also hope that information will be very careful, because it is a very difficult period in which people are in it. There must be careful action in this regard. Above all, we hope and expect that this law can be of great importance to parents. Given the high level of support, we have every confidence in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Middendorp of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I very much support the previous speakers and the fine words they have spoken. I'm sure that's not always political here. But in this law we are talking about a very emotional and very vulnerable point, of course, primarily for the parents involved, the parents who want recognition for their child. Earlier ministers actually promised a long time ago that they would find a solution to the problem that is being solved today; that they would seek a solution that would allow lifeless children and children who are no longer alive at the time of declaration to be recognised in the Basic Registration. This means that previous speakers have also indicated it too for the VVD far more than just that sentence. I have received a lot of messages about this from parents and other stakeholders since I became a Member of Parliament. You do not receive these messages as a MP but also as a person, as a parent, and that is different; I think that is something we all feel here. So today, here in the Chamber, we are completing a long process. I think that the operation BRP, which stopped last year, also led to a lot of annoying delays in this process, and that is, of course, for the petitioners, whom I would also like to thank. I also think that after today the work is not over, because let's all make sure that what we now regulate in legislation is actually being implemented in practice. In this sense, I agree with the words of the SP, for example, on how this is going to work in practice. Above all, chairman, of the VVD, so much support for this law. It is good to note that this is how the cabinet listened to the parents of the lifeless children. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u16	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. Today is a special moment; it has been said by many Members of Parliament. It is the treatment of the Bill Amendment Basic Registration Act Persons on non-lively born children and their registration. I believe that Mr Van der Molen said it: it is, in fact, a relatively minor legislative amendment. We have far greater legislative changes here, but this is a legislative change with major consequences. A legislative proposal which has been preceded by the necessary efforts and which has now been really achieved thanks to the persistence of the petitioners. Sometimes these legislative proposals are dealt with in the Chamber which is very special and this is also one. Everyone feels that. The MPs have also indicated that. It contributes to the processing of immense grief that parents have when a child is born without life. It regulates in the law that always tolerates a bit complicated with the emotion..... that grief can get more a place. This is due to the emotional bond that parent and child have with each other from conception and which cannot be expressed in the length of time a pregnancy lasted or was prematurely broken down. I myself have friends in my area who have experienced such a situation. I think everyone knows people. We just heard the story of Mrs Özütok. Then we all know what that means for those young families and families. I am therefore grateful that this issue was already put on the agenda by a petition in 2015 and that the petitioners, the MPs, the cabinet at the time, I would like to mention my predecessors Ronald Plasterk, Ad van der Steur and then Stef Blok and other stakeholders. From this point on, I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the initiators. They're in the public gallery. I'll name four. I didn't mention them all. Mrs Bergkamp had a whole list that goes even further than what I have, but I would like to mention Natasja Geyteman, Jeannette Rietberg and Mieke Maliegaard, but also columnist Roos Schlikker. Because they got that petition started and 82,000 people signed that petition. If it hadn't been for them, it wouldn't have come this far. I believe that Mr Van Raak has just said: it is a very nice example of democracy, perhaps someone else said it; Mrs Özütok, that this can be done, that the right to petition also has a democratic place and that ultimately it will result in a legislative proposal, a legislative amendment. A great emotional loss is now being done right with the registration of non-living born children. The proposers also wanted justice to be done to the fact that their children lived before birth. So the petition "I want in the BRP too!" It was a very good reason to have a discussion in the end, in which officials, politicians and many involved with united forces have put their hands on it. I have just said in conversation with the initiators: we sometimes have other debates here where everyone is opposed to each other. It's nice to see that on such a subject the lines close. Data relating to the child shall be included only on request. It's not something that's prescribed here, but it's possible. Births from many years ago can also be registered, in response to Mr Bishop's question, regardless of the duration of pregnancy. There will be no deadlines and as few conditions as possible in this legislative amendment, precisely because it is a personal matter. Then, of course, you automatically come to the question of how these officials deal with it. I think the beauty of this bill, of this amendment of the law, is that we do not put the administrative, bureaucratic front and whether it is exactly by the rules. We want to give as much space as possible to that official, in that conversation with those parents, to make this possible. That may be a little atypical, but it is a subject that goes with it, because no one is going to take advantage of it. That's just the assumption. I have confidence in the officials at the municipalities who are going to record the declarations. That is why, in the context of the discussion with the Chamber on this matter, I said in writing: let us make it easier, let us not make so much demands on the recording of this registration. Of course, these officials are briefed, so they all get the background to this change of law through the NVVB. So I also assume that this is happening in a good way. We therefore believe that in this way we are doing justice to the wishes regarding the registration in the population administration of all parents who have had or are about to have had to deal with a major event of stillbirth of a child. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked which I would like to answer specifically. I have answered Mr Bishop's question. Mrs Bergkamp still had the question of who can register. That is also very good for the debates. These are parents of lifeless born children who were resident at the time of birth and whose personal list is present. In fact, everyone who is also normally in the BRP. Mrs Özütok and Mr Van Raak asked whether registration could also take place in the Caribbean parts of the Netherlands. The answer to that is no. That's very simple in the fact that the Basic Registration Act doesn't apply to the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. They have the PIVA, the Personal Information Office of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba. A bit of a complicated abbreviation, but that's their system, which has been working on for a long time. So I understand the background to the question, but then a system discussion would have to be initiated at the time of the answer, because they are two completely separate systems. This bill only refers to the modification of the Basic Registration Persons. It's up to the countries themselves. It is therefore not a matter for the countries within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. They have a whole system of their own. Mr Van Raak had the question on the basis of which information a document is issued. Civil status and civil servants have a lot of experience in delivering documents and dealing with documents from abroad. Furthermore, in these cases, very generous and generous action will be taken, precisely on the assumption that this is not legislation to prevent fraud, which is often the case here. We're just assuming that doesn't happen here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u18	I had a small question about Caribbean Netherlands. I understand that they are indeed two different systems. We're talking about a change in the BRP today. Is the Secretary of State prepared to bring this opportunity to the attention of the BES Islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u19	I would like to reword the question: is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss that? Because I am assuming very much, even in previous debates, what the needs are in the BES islands. That would have to be translated into that PIVA in a very different way. I certainly understand the question, I really want to look at it, without being able to say anything about it now, because that is completely out of the order of our BRP. But it is more in line with the discussion we have had recently on the differences in legislation between the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom and the Caribbean parts of the Netherlands, where there are differences in laws and regulations that have not been resolved overnight, not only on this subject but on many other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr Van Raak also had a question about the Civil Code and its wording, which can be found everywhere, because of course everything is tied together. So if you changed that one article, that means change in a lot of places. That is the responsibility of my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. He's responsible for the Civil Code. We ourselves used a different term in our legislative proposal, but if Mr Van Raak asks me if I am considering amending it, I should really refer him to the colleague for Justice and Security. I would also like to draw attention to it, but this is an element that goes far beyond just the proposal that is before us. I do understand the underlying idea of his question, especially in the context of what we are talking about today. In fact, all members have asked about the communication to the target group. The atypical way in which this bill has been drawn up calls for an almost atypical follow-up. I am also in favour of other ways of lawmaking and involving citizens in this and I think it is very important that the initiators also play an important role in the follow-up, communication. The most important reason for this is that they, perhaps I do not and some of you may well know the feelings behind it, because they have experienced it themselves and they speak the language, which they have already done by mobilising many people. So I would very much like to involve them, including in the further implementation of the communication strategy. Because of course there must be communication; not everyone automatically gets what is being discussed here. However, I would like to make use of this and that applies both to the potential target group and to the officials involved. Mr President, I think I have answered my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u22	I have just been informed: I understand that Members do not need a second term. I'm gonna make a mistake about that. Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u23	We'll vote on the law on Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 1:50 p.m. Then we'll move on to the arrangement. Then we continue at 14.00 hours with part two of the General Financial Reviews.
