ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u1	This is the week of the initiative legislative proposals. We've got four this week. I think it's a record. Today's issue is number three, Mr Van Nispen's own-initiative proposal, which aims to amend, inter alia, the Compatibility Act 2016 in order to establish a clear separation between the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security and that of the Judicial Board. It's Room 34618. I would like to welcome Mr Van Nispen. He is supported in the defense of his proposal in box K by Christel Wiskerke and Mike van Heumen, both party member of the SP. There are rumors that group employees are doing a lot of work on the initiative legislative proposals. Thank you for joining us. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today is the first term on the part of the Chamber, and only the first term on the part of the Chamber. The continuation of this debate, in which we are going to listen to the author, will be planned in consultation with the initiator. It will therefore be planned at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u2	I should now like to give the floor as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber to Mr Van Oosten of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is appropriate to congratulate Mr Van Nispen, a compliment for his determination to separate the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security from that of the Council of Justice. Because after an amendment to this effect had not been made in this Chamber, the initiator gains the highest privilege that our Members of Parliament deserve and says: well, then do I just make it an initiative law? But that will stop my compliments. For I must also make a substantive assessment of the proposal, namely the separation advocated. Mr Van Nispen suggests that there is a problem, but there is no problem. So this bill is not a solution either. The independence of the judiciary is not at all at stake. Also in Mr Van Nispen's proposal, the Minister remains responsible for funding. As far as I am concerned, it can and must make financial choices which affect justice. There is nothing wrong with that either, I say very clearly. I would also very much like to recall the statement made by a prominent member of the PvdA, Mr Dijsselbloem, who rightly indicated that the decision on the resources made available is ultimately a political decision. I also find it really nonsense to constantly step up the division of power between the state bodies as an argument for this proposal. The judiciary is independent in the Netherlands. This is crucial in our rule of law. This means that politics does not interfere in the formation of judgments. But this does not mean that politics cannot find anything about the allocation of financial resources. Mr. Chairman. I am in good company with this point of view. The Council of State stresses that this proposal is purely symbolic. So it's useless in that respect. As far as it is intended to be more than symbolical, the Council of State notes that it is poorly related to the functioning of our parliamentary system, in which both the government and the Minister of Justice remain fully accountable to the functioning of the judicial organisation and the public resources to be deployed. In short, as far as I am concerned, it is not only useless, it is also undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u4	Does Mr Van Oosten agree with me that justice is more independent if it has its own budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u5	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u6	I'm the Home Secretary, and that's where we're used to doing something else. There you can see that the States General, the National Ombudsman, the General Court of Auditors, the Council of State, even the Election Council, all have their own budgets. Why, then, is it difficult to ensure, in the first instance symbolically, the independence of that judicial procedure in its own budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u7	Because there's the assumption that there would be something wrong with the power organs, the state organs in this country. And I dispute that. Because the judiciary in this country is completely independent. You do not tell me that there is a judge in this country who would allow the content of his judgment to be influenced by the financing of legal proceedings. I don't believe anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u8	Finally. Does Mr Van Oosten agree with me that the agreements we have made for funding, the so-called 'PxQ system', have not always been respected in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u9	What I realize... I don't know if it's always been respected. What matters is that I think we have the right to determine how much money goes to, among other things, legal proceedings. For this purpose, the judicial procedure has a budget to submit to the Minister for Justice and Security, in this case to the Minister for Legal Protection. As a general rule, this proposal will also be adopted. Of course, there is no doubt that there is a lot of negotiation between the organisations, all of which will be fine, but that does not mean that you have to set up a separate budget. I really don't see the point. Mr. Chairman. I would much rather have energy and commitment focused on tackling the real problems in legal proceedings. Think of the chronic shortage of judges in the North Netherlands court. Major and unacceptable delays in the work, so much so that in criminal matters, convicted persons are reduced in terms of penalties because the trial has lasted so long. Completely ridiculous as far as I'm concerned. What does the Minister do about it? Couldn't judges, for example, temporarily be used elsewhere, in another court to deal with backlogs? Or, when we talk about where to go with justice, take the digitisation of justice, the so-called KEI project. I'm getting some disturbing signals about that. I believe that attention should be focused on solving these problems by the Council of Ministers for Justice and the Minister, so that the case law is in line with the digitisation of society and so that procedures can be completed more quickly and easily. That is what the Dutchman can expect from the justice system and that is also what the VVD is working on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you. Mr Markuszower of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, on behalf of my group, the PVV, thank you for the work done by the initiator in writing the present legislative proposal and for submitting the legislative proposal to the Chamber. My group is not necessarily opposed to the proposal to separate the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security from that of the Council of Justice. The reason for this is that we hope that this will make the costs of justice more transparent. We would like to ask the initiator a number of questions that will help us to reach a final verdict. Can the initiator make it clear whether this bill makes the financing of the case law more objective? In the opinion of the initiator, is the case law not objective enough? If so, can the initiator give an example of a judgment which he does not consider to be objective? The Minister for Legal Protection remains as responsible in a separate budget as in the current situation, where the budget of justice is part of the budget of Justice and Security. Even if the budget of justice were to be decoupled from the budget of Justice and Security, justice would still be financed from state resources. Dependence remains, therefore, formal and practically the same. Then why does the initiator think that independence of justice is better guaranteed in his proposal? Perhaps the initiator could clarify this point. My group would also like to know from the initiator whether a separate budget will make the case law more transparent; this question is somewhat along the lines of the questions I asked for this. In the note following the report, the initiator addresses questions and criticises the task-setting savings that would have been made for 2018. Doesn't the initiator believe that cuts in public bodies are not always bad or need to be bad? Sometimes they are necessary and necessary. Taxpayers' money must be spent carefully. Is the possibility of an increase in the Council's budget for justice greater if the Council receives a separate budget for justice? And to what extent does the possibility of cuts in the Council's case law reduce if this proposal is adopted? The PVV finds a system in which people are appointed to their jobs for life, perverse. Judges are appointed for their lives in the Netherlands. That creates perverse, lazy and arrogant judges. The only solution is for the Dutch to elect judges every four years. Judges, like other Dutch people, will have to do their best every day to do their job as well as possible. Is the initiator...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u12	Before you go any further, Mr Van Dam has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u13	I hear the PVV representative talking about lazy and perverted judges. Can he give examples of this? If that's the case, I think it's extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u14	First of all, it's a quote from your own work, so it should always be possible. An example? It is a pity that you are not from the VVD Group, but take for example the Judge Sjef of Gennip. When he was also a judge, he was chairman of the party committee on security and justice of the VVD. In addition, he was at any rate still active as head of the RSJ at the time. No, isn't it? I think so. For example, he advises MPs, in this case of the VVD Group, on how high penalties should be or how to deal with crime. At the same time, he is a judge and is paid to better guide justice in the Netherlands. Those are three functions that conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u15	I would point out that it is not customary here to attack people who are not there personally. Yeah, it's a minister. It is difficult, because it is an example of a statement you have, but I feel quite unheimous about it. Would you like to say something at that point, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u16	I asked absolutely not about Jan, Piet or Klaas, but about case positions, about examples. Because I don't know them. If that is such an essential point and it is put here, then I think it is within the margins of this debate that, if you say that, you should also come up with examples. By the way, the person mentioned is not a judge, but a director of Reclassing Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u17	He's also a substitute judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u18	So as far as that goes, you're really next to the album. Can you give examples, apart from persons, by which you can prove what you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u19	Apart from people, it gets a little tricky. But in general, you should try to think with me. If you're in a position for life, whether you're a judge, MP or hairdresser, it doesn't matter, and you know in the morning when you go to work, "I can keep doing this for the rest of my life, whether I'm good or bad, right or wrong, being a good or bad MP," does that force you to be at your best? I think it's a thought experiment that you're better if you know you're getting an assessment from someone else tomorrow, that you can get fired tomorrow, can't be re-appointed or can't be re-elected. I think MPs would be better if they were elected every four years. I think hairdressers are better when their clients can criticize and go to another hairdresser. I think it would be good if judges were elected. I think in the experiment you might be able to help me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u20	Clear, clear point. We're all on a side street now and we're at the barbers'. I suggest that we get out of that side street again towards the Compatibility Act, otherwise we will be doing some sort of broad general consideration of the legal world. Go ahead, Mr. Van Dam, finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u21	Definitely finalizing. I think it's a sidewalk, too. I just think it's a big deal when that's said here. On the contrary, I greatly appreciate the fact that judges appointed for life in the Netherlands do not do what is put forward here. I think that point should be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u22	Fine, thank you. Mr. Groothuizen, please return to the main path if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr President, I believe that the main objective of the initiator is to strengthen the independence of justice. The question is how Mr Markuszower reconciles what he says, that he sympathizes with the proposal, with his proposal to appoint judges for four years. In general, the appointment for a longer period is seen as the greatest guarantee of independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u24	I can understand why a D66 man would stand up for the judiciary. 17% indicates that D66 is being voted...Sorry, 31% of all judges indicate that they vote for D66, 17% PvdA and 12% GroenLinks, so 60% of all judges say they vote for a left-wing party. So I understand that D66 is in charge of the judiciary. I think there... again, it's a sidewalk, says the chairman, and I have to stick to it a little bit. I myself am convinced that as judges, every four years, Dutch people are elected, making them more independent, better, less lazy and less perverse. But we can differ on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u25	And then we'll go back to the Compatibility Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u26	I'm sure we're different. I note that there is no answer to the question that there will be a pointless list of figures and that Mr Markuszower will then hide behind your comment to go back to the main point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u27	I think I did answer the question. We just disagree about what makes judges or people who work somewhere independent and right. That's a disagreement. But I was actually already at my conclusion. The conclusion concerns a question. Does the initiator agree with my group that it would be better if judges and, in particular, criminal justice officers, as well as senior public prosecutors, were directly elected every four years? Thank you. And good luck with the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u28	Thank you. Then Mr Van Raak of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yes, chairman, let's get back to the law. This debate is about the separation of powers. That is the trias politician, one of the most important values in our democratic rule of law. I would like to thank Mr Van Nispen very much for this very special and very important law. I would like to ask him and the Minister to listen to me twice as well, because I am speaking on behalf of GroenLinks today. We often say that the separation of powers is inspired by the Enlightenment Philosopher Montesquieu, but that is not entirely true. Because it's the other way around. Montesquieu was also inspired by the low countries, by the States-General; that is because of us! At the time, we made an important contribution to his response to the royal despotism prevailing in France. Today we are talking about the so-called third power: our judiciary. According to Montesquieu, this power must not be held by one and the same authority. However, it is now the case that the budget of justice has been placed with the Ministry of Justice and Security. Why is that, I ask the Minister. Why is it not as regulated as, for example, the budget of the States General, the National Ombudsman, the General Court of Auditors, the Council of State, even the Election Council? Of this, we consider independence to be so important that we deliberately do not choose to make this part of the Home Affairs budget. Some call this proposal mainly symbolic. If by that they mean that principles are respected, then of course they are right. Because if we really want our judiciary to be independent, then we just have to settle this. And you can do that in this law. If we really stand for the separation of powers, then we're going to go And we're going to untie that budget. But this is far more than just a state-law principle in the case of the SP. By decoupling the budget, we can also have a separate debate. The case law then always gets the attention it deserves in this Chamber. For, Mr President, the case law should not be treated as the executive body of the Ministry. That appearance is now because of the design. It is a separate power, which must have a separate budget, in which the funding depends on the quality and what is needed for it and not, I say to the VVD, on an annual mission. Is it true, as I ask both the Minister and the initiator, that if you do not agree with a cut in that budget for justice, then you do not have to vote off an entire budget for justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u30	If Mr Van Raak, on behalf of the SP, says that the funding of justice should not just be faced with an annual mission, does Mr Van Raak not actually reveal that the objective of this law is to create immunity from financial choices? Where we ask schools, education, all of it, difficult dilemmas, difficult financial questions, should justice be protected? Is that Mr Van Raak's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u31	No. The point is that if we now have a task for the budget of Justice and Security, it will automatically apply to justice. What we would like to see is two budgets. Then you can also have a debate twice. If the VVD, say, wants to propose a 50% cut in justice, it can be discussed in that debate and the VVD can try to get a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u32	So your main objection is that a separate moment must be created to discuss the case law further, where we consistently have general discussions on the case law in this house and where, as you know, we have budgetary treatment? There any party, whether that is the VVD or the SP, can focus all speaking time fully on that element, for example. Well, I gave my opinion on the law, but I am now coming forward because you specifically say that word 'job' and yet I feel that you are behind the agenda here: I do not want justice to be affected by it. I do not think that this is justified in relation to all the other bodies in this country which are also of great importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u33	I don't have a hidden agenda, and if I had it, I'd have lost her. The point is that there are two sides to this medal. On the one hand, there is the constitutional side. If you want to carry out the separation of powers properly, then you have to give justice a separate budget, separate from the Ministry of Justice and Security. In the case of the Home Office, that is much more the case and it happens much more often. It would be a good thing if this were done in this ministry and in the case law. The other side of the coin is that, if you have a separate budget, you can also have a separate budget treatment with a separate minister, let me add. And if it turns out that everyone is very satisfied with that budget, then that budget does not need to be entered in the budget. But if people have specific questions about that budget, they can also be dealt with specifically. This is something that the judiciary deserves and which the Council is very pleased with for the case-law. I am also curious whether the initiator can explain whether this bill is the answer to the current problems in the case law or whether much more is needed. That's what I like to hear from him. Finally, I have good hopes for a successful outcome of this bill. This also has to do with the history of this subject in this Chamber. A little over a year ago, a similar proposal was put to the vote. This was co-signed by, among others, the Christian Union and the SGP. The PVV also voted in favour. That proposal, that amendment, did not reach it at the time. At the time, there was no majority in favour of this because the Minister felt that a separate legislative process was needed. I am very grateful to Mr Van Nispen for picking up that glove. And I am counting on the parties that co-signed at the time to continue to give their support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you. I call Mr Van Dam from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u35	I read the e-mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr Van Dam finds that today we can serve the chair ourselves. There's a button on it. Innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u37	I'm gonna say my own piece of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u38	Old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u39	Yes. Mr. Chairman. One of the key conditions for a democratic rule of law is independent justice. In a democracy, the majority vote counts, but in a democratic rule of law, the possibility has been added for the minority, even for a few, to go to court to get its rights there on the basis of the rules in force. There are also good examples of judgments in our country today and in the past which are uncomfortable against what the government, a parliamentary majority or common opinion prescribes, because the law, the rule of law so demands. Mr. Chairman. In this light, it is commendable that Mr Van Nispen has taken the trouble to present the legislative initiative that we are discussing today. The CDA recognizes its intention, namely to fully contribute to justice that is in line with our rule of law. That initiative is commendable, but the concrete proposal he is making is a little less. It is nothing more than symbolic legislation in the eyes of the CDA Group. The purpose of this proposal is to separate the Council's budget for justice from the Ministry's budget. The applicant claims that this would benefit independence. The CDA has some doubts about this. Does the independence of the case law not primarily refer to the substantive work of judges? They must be able to take facts without interference from anyone, and certainly not from the government, to give substance to a process and to reach a judgment. Of course, there is a link between the administration of justice and the independence of the substance, but in the case of judicial independence, independent judgment is a priority. The proposal states that the autonomy of the Council's budget in the area of justice does not mean that it has consequences for the ministerial responsibility, the budgetary right of parliament and the position of the formal legislator. No change is envisaged here. Self-determination does not mean that the Council's budget for justice is immune to austerity. Nor is that what is intended. According to the complainant, an independent budget of the Council would be more appropriate to the constitutional principles and to the independent position of the case-law. But if no substantial, material changes are intended, what is this change really about and why is it necessary? Mr. Chairman. Is it not true that, unlike, for example, the National Ombudsman or the Court of Auditors, justice works much more in a chain when it comes to management aspects, for example in the criminal justice chain or the immigration chain? When it comes to computer systems, on the management side, justice must be much more integrated into all the other public partners and others involved. Would that not be an argument for maintaining the link with the Ministry on the administrative side, the budget side, I would ask the author. Partly for this reason, the CDA Group does not see why this independence would be necessary. An independent budget does not make the Council more or less independent in the area of justice when the Minister for Legal Protection remains responsible. Mr. Chairman. According to the CDA Group, the Council's negative own funds currently pose a much greater threat to the independence of justice. JenV's budget shows that the Board closed 2017 with a deficit of 30 million. A deficit of 28 million is expected for 2018. The own funds have been reduced to €0 as of 1 January 2018. This means that the Council must constantly contact the Minister for Legal Protection and the Minister of Finance to keep the Toko running. This harms the independence of justice much more. We also discussed this in the JenV budget. The Minister has promised a letter on this matter. Can the Minister indicate when he can send that letter to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. Finally. Speaking of the budget for Justice and Security, perhaps it is time to talk about other organisations under the Ministry of Justice and Security. We read in the budget that there are many implementation organisations under the Ministry. One is a ZBO, the other is an agency and another is a legal entity with a legal function. We also have the police. We have had a discussion here about whether or not we should talk separately about items that are or are not in the budget. In short, it's a whole Christmas tree to organizations. The Ministry is also not known for its simple driveability. Shouldn't we take a good look at that overall construction? Shouldn't there even be some line in that? The fact that the Council's independence from justice is being optimised in this context is a debate other than simply decoupling the budget. What's the Minister's position on this? And how does the author feel about this bigger picture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you. Then Mr Groothuizen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Van Nispen for his initiative for a more independent justice. I think the importance of independence is beyond doubt. Independent justice is a foundation under our rule of law. In our democratic rule of law, the judge protects the individual from the omnipotence of the government or from a violation of his rights by other citizens. Only if we can trust that the judge is truly independent can we do something with his judgment. Mr. Chairman. However, I have a number of critical questions, because the Council of State has made a number of critical comments on this bill, which I do understand. Previous speakers have also considered this. The Council is the first to declare that they are very chic about the lack of a relevant consideration of constitutional principles. In short, how does this proposal relate to ministerial responsibility, to the budgetary law of parliament and to the position of the formal legislator? I think that an initiative that says that it wants to guarantee independent justice deserves a little more consideration. I would therefore ask the initiator to respond to this. Secondly, the Council of State says that the budgetary rules, the way in which justice is financed and the Minister's responsibility with this proposal remain unchanged. I think that's right. The initiator also acknowledges in his written document that the incentive payment continues to exist, and that cuts in justice are still possible. Like the Council of State, I am therefore looking for the practical usefulness of this proposal. Could the initiator go into that? Mr. Chairman. This government is rebuilding our rule of law. She invests in police and justice, does not increase registry law, and focuses on socially effective justice. We come from a period of severe austerity, but that period is over. The government invests in neighbourhood judges, in innovative justice, in a simplified process, and in a substantial financial injection into the criminal justice chain. In doing so, the government takes responsibility for strengthening the rule of law. I warmly welcome that. However, this proposal does not seem to contribute effectively to this. I would like to hear from the Minister how he views this proposal, contrary to the investment agenda in the rule of law set out in the government agreement. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. At the moment, I find it difficult to see the added value of this proposal, given the changed context, but also because the proposal does not seem to do what it is intended to do. I like the idea behind the initiator's proposal. I appreciate his commitment to the rule of law. But at the moment he has not convinced me of the usefulness and necessity of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u43	Yes. Mr Van Nispen did not come up with all this now; he said this in an amendment a year ago. This was also supported and welcomed by D66 as a wonderful example to strengthen the rule of law and the position of independent justice. D66 also considered it to be an important constitutional value. So what happened over the past year, so D66 seems to be taking a slightly different tone here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u44	I think I explained that in my first term, but I'd like to do it again. There is a very critical opinion from the Council of State, I think right. In short, the Council of State says: "It sounds nice, but in fact this proposal does not change the practice. There's still room for savings. The budgetary rules do not change. The Minister of Justice remains responsible. The performance funding, PxQ, just stays in place. All these problems remain." That raises the question: what exactly are we doing? What does this bill do? Secondly, something else has happened, which undoubtedly has not escaped Mr Van Raak. We have a new government, with two new ministers and a government agreement that, as I have just said, invests heavily in the rule of law. There will be more money for police, more money for justice and more money for justice. We are going to work with more experimental space for justice, so that justice can really do what I need to do. I do not see the added value of this proposal in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u45	D66 mentions a number of points that were equally valid a year ago. Of course, a debate on funding remains possible. Of course, the budget law will continue to apply. That kind of thing isn't changed by this law. But a year ago, D66 said that this proposal was very good for the independence of justice, as the Justice Council now says. D66 then said it was good for the rule of law, and spoke all nice, warm words about independence. So I don't know where that change is coming from right now. The fact that the current government is investing more is a great thing. That is a very good thing. But that does not alter the principle that justice deserves a separate budget and therefore does not belong to the budget of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u46	In other words, I believe that Mr Van Raak is asking for exactly the same thing. So I fear that the answer will also be the same. There is a great deal of criticism of this proposal because it does not address the problem the initiator seeks to address. In addition, we have now taken real steps in the coalition agreement, it is not a symbolism, but it is real steps that will strengthen justice. That makes more sense to me. When I joined the House of Representatives, I said, and I think it is even on the web page that I do not want to participate in symbolic legislation. As far as I am concerned, this is going towards symbolic legislation. I'd like to stick to my pronunciation as long as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u47	I think there's only one thing that's changed in the past year, and that's that D66 got caught up in the VVD and the CDA. We just heard those contributions. I believe that the independence of justice deserves a fair and open debate, in which the parties themselves reflect on how constitutional they are and how hard they are going to stand for their justice and independence. I therefore hope that in the future of this debate D66 will come from the clamps of the VVD and the CDA and that we will be able to have a good debate with each other openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u48	I regularly read in the press reports about how people are trapped inside the SP. So I do understand that Mr. Van Raak thinks a little in these kinds of terms. I think I have given him a lot of substantive arguments as to why I have doubts about this bill. Once again, I note that we are going to take steps in the coalition agreement that are really going to contribute to strengthening justice. I always think that's better than symbolism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u49	I understand this is the end of your contribution. I would like to thank Mr Groothuizen for his contribution on behalf of D66. The following speaker is already impatient: Mrs Kuik of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u50	Yeah, the sweet words were over, so I thought I'd take over. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by thanking Mr Van Nispen for taking the trouble to bring this initiative proposal to the Chamber. I know from my own experience that it sometimes takes a lot of effort to come up with such a bill. That deserves a big compliment. We are standing here with the question: is it going to make it to the finish line? It has already been said. It starts with the starting point that everyone in the Netherlands wants to be sure of an independent justice. And everyone also wants to make sure that there is sufficient funding for it. Especially the latter is under pressure. A number of comments have rightly been made on this. Only, we're not gonna solve that with this bill. At the same time, we recognise, as we have done in the case of Compatibility legislation, that there are a number of colleges that have their own "budget" because we grant them a certain separate status. Members of the Chamber have also mentioned a number of examples: the General Court of Auditors, the National Ombudsman, the Election Council and so on. You can ask yourself whether the case law deserves such a separate position. You can say it's a symbol. But is that symbol so important in this house that we sometimes consider a symbol to be very important; see the flag behind the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that it deserves such a separate status? I think that's the crux of the debate we have to have together. I do not have any other technical questions at the moment. Nor am I going to have the debate on whether we should organise justice quite differently. I understand the importance of symbolism. I challenge Mr Van Nispen to clarify once again why he thinks that this independence, more than it is now, can be guaranteed with such a separate status. In any case, we are going to listen favourably, because symbols are sometimes very important. I look forward to his answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-7.u51	Thank you. This is the end of the Court's first term in the examination of this initiative legislative proposal. Treatment is continued at a time to be determined. Thanks to the initiator. Thank you to the Minister for his presence.
