ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u1	The next item is the progress of the examination of the legislative proposal 35000-VI, Adoption of the budget states of the Ministry of Justice and Security (VI) for the year 2019, the Immigration and Asylum section.I once again welcome the State Secretary for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u2	I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u3	Madam President, thank you very much. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. I would like to go over the issues raised by the various Members in the reply, while keeping the subject of the Global Compact for Migration, the migration compact, for the last time, because questions have been asked by several Members. Then I can answer it in conjunction. Mr. Chairman. In that order, I shall begin with Mr Van Hattem's question. He asked about the concepts of "support," "support" and "need" as included in the policy agenda and in the budget when it comes to shaping migration policy. It is essential that the Netherlands adheres to the international obligations to which it is committed. It is a legitimate question how to take account of the acceptance and capacity of Dutch society. The cabinet gives this form through a broad commitment that has also been described in the integrated migration agenda sent to both Chambers. It focuses on addressing the causes of migration and strengthening protection in the region. Within the EU, the Netherlands is fighting for more solidarity and less secondary migratory flows. Through an EU and cabinet-wide commitment, efforts are being made to improve return cooperation with countries of origin. This broad commitment is also aimed at maintaining support. Closer to home, I think that showing that we are capable of shaping reception and admission policies is an important way to maintain and promote acceptance. I note that the IND is currently largely able to judge within the legal decision-making period. I think that's a measure of that. My aim is to reduce the lead time even further. For people seeking asylum on false grounds, for example, because they come from a safe country of origin and have no asylum motive, the lead times are already very short. For people who really need protection from persecution, there is plenty of support in the Netherlands. Research earlier this year showed that about 80% of the population consider protection to be important to genuine refugees. The fact that the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers is still able to find municipalities that are willing to host an asylum-seekers' centre shows that support as far as I am concerned. But on that basis, we must be economical. It is therefore important, for example, that municipalities have room to replace the automatic priority of status holders in housing with other ways of ensuring the housing mission. Municipalities are free to designate alternatives to the available social housing, such as the setting up of temporary homes, the transformation of vacant property, or the splitting of homes into independent housing units which are then assigned to single persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u4	The Secretary of State speaks of support for municipalities, but municipalities are often executive bodies, for example, which are given tasks from the Empire and again controlled by the Province, so there is not much support for these municipalities. Besides, people aren't asked for anything. How does the Secretary of State view the public's support? 'Cause that's what I miss in his story. Secondly, he says that we are trying to tackle the flows and shorten the lead times. The fact is that azc's are being reopened at the moment. The azc in Den Helder is reopened. The azc Azelo in Borne is reopened. So we see the opposite: more azc's are being housed again and immigration is rising again. How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u5	The first question concerns public support and the role of municipalities. I have a different picture than Mr Van Hattem. That is primarily on the basis of research. I just mentioned that. We didn't investigate that ourselves. It is then simply a broad survey of the population and the picture that emerges from it is constant over the years. Four out of five Dutch people say: yes, we have the willingness to protect people who are actually fleeing war, violence or personal persecution here. But I also note that there are many municipalities that are involved in the housing of asylum seekers' centres. Three years ago, during the migration crisis, this has happened here and there, but they now come up with ideas of their own to allow this to happen. We are working together in the national management table, and at the moment they also offer room for the reopening of asylum seekers' centres that are needed or for the deployment of flexible capacity. So I have a different picture of the basis of support. It is true that COA's spare capacity had to be addressed recently. This has not to do with an in absolute numbers higher inflow in the Netherlands. It is no higher than in 2017. It has to do with the fact that the composition of the influx changes. Three, four years ago, they were mainly Syrians. Since there was a war situation in Syria, people quickly received an asylum permit if they could prove that they were from Syria. At the moment, the influx is much more diverse. This also means that more and longer-term research is needed because people are not automatically eligible for asylum, but perhaps because of their personal circumstances. Finally, the occupation of asylum seekers' centres is increased because the flow to municipalities is indeed stalling. But as I have just said, municipalities do not have to solve this with a priority arrangement. There are also alternatives for them to accommodate the housing of status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u6	The Secretary of State talks about research which shows that there would be support for the reception of real refugees. At the same time he says that everyone who came from Syria got a residence status here. I mentioned the examples of the Islamic jihad warriors of Jabhat al-Nusra. So they all just got a residence permit from this Rutte cabinet. Are these real refugees for this Secretary of State? Apparently so, because on behalf of this cabinet, they've been granted a residence permit. Does he see any support for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u7	No, it's just a little too soon to draw conclusions here. Each asylum application, including in the case of Syrian asylum applications, shall be screened for considerations which may lead to non-acceptance of an asylum application. Terrorist motives mean by definition that an application is not accepted. Moreover, it is not always evident that these reasons exist when applying for asylum, but that is why there is also a retrospective investigation. At any time that signals are coming, but also group-by-group, the group is still being reviewed to see if we can find further evidence later that will result in an asylum permit being withdrawn. It goes without saying that the examples mentioned by Mr Van Hattem do not give the right to asylum in the Netherlands. For that reason, licences have also been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u8	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u9	This is, of course, essential. You say that the permits have been withdrawn, but it is really a question of whether that has happened, because there are examples of dozens of Syrians who have come here with blank passports, forged passports issued by ISIS, and there was no problem of that, if I may believe the NRC of the past year. There was no risk to Dutch society. Have these people collectively withdrawn the permits? Do you see these people as real refugees and do you see support for them in Dutch society? Because there's just a big problem there. False passports issued by IS are based on the fact that these Syrians reside in this country and have been granted residences and residence status here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u10	As a general rule, I do not consider such a case to be entitled to an asylum permit in the Netherlands. That is why signals are constantly being investigated. In the specific case of passports issued by IS, it was later found that a certain tranche of passports might have come from IS and measures were taken later and that people had entered the Netherlands on such a passport. So every time evidence pops up, even afterwards, it's investigated. Mr. Chairman. The other part of Mr Van Hattem's question was the need for migration. I could refer to policies such as the "knowledge migrants' scheme, which responds to the needs of Dutch society and also the contribution that migration can make to the Dutch economy. The cabinet's commitment is to further remove thresholds for knowledge migrants to come to the Netherlands, focusing on start-ups who are really in the start-up phase and are not yet able to pay the salaries to knowledge migrants to meet the conditions of the knowledge migration scheme. The Netherlands succeeds in becoming increasingly attractive for knowledge and talent and with this there is also a ditto contribution to the economy. In recent years, more and more talented people have come to the Netherlands: international students, knowledge migrants and innovative entrepreneurs. The policy thus responds to the need for highly skilled staff. In addition to knowledge migration, there is, of course, regular labour migration. In order to achieve this, a need must be recognised by industry and no priority must be given to the supply of labour in the Netherlands. So there are rules around it. Without going further on to all kinds of individual issues raised by Mr Van Hattem, public order and national security are at stake. We just talked about that. The inflow is continuously screened and maximum effort is made to minimise any risks at this point. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem also specifically asked about Syria and the ministry. We have a good practice in the Netherlands not as a political but on the basis of objective information to investigate the circumstances in various countries of origin, which then form the basis for asylum policy in the Netherlands. The same applies to Syria. With great regularity, the ministry report on Syria is reviewed. We've had a thematic paper on security this year. Next year there will also be a new post on the schedule, which will examine whether return is possible. For yes, we also hear reports that Syrians from neighbouring Syria would occasionally return. But in order to be able to answer the question of whether Syria is safe and whether it is possible to return to Syria, we prefer to base ourselves on a broad investigation. I note that no EU country has declared Syria safe at this time, but further research will be carried out next year. Of course, the primary hope is that sooner or later the situation in Syria will change so much, for the better, that it will also be possible to return. But so far we have found that this is not the case. Finally, Mr Van Hattem asked about the use of an incorrect source, an Islamic source, in the drafting of the statement of office. In the end, this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under which the statement of office was made. That might respond to that in substance, but in fact I feel more need to join Mrs Strik, who went into an interruption, namely that a notice of office is drawn up on the basis of a very large number of sources. A single source never has a decisive role in a post. We are also looking at what, for example, the UNHCR and the IOM think of a country and what the neighbouring countries think of a country at EU level. We rely on many international sources, so one source is never decisive. Mr Van Hattem mentioned the UNHCR and the IOM. At present, both consider Syria too unsafe to be declared safe and that return is not an issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u11	I have mentioned one example of sources used in the preparation of the post, but I can mention many other sources. Only this source was so typical of how Islamic activism affects the ministry. To give another example, the UN Human Rights Commission is also being used as a source. As is well known, this UN Human Rights Commission has been populated for years by the greatest possible rogue states, which themselves commit human rights violations. But that committee is simply being put up as a source for this post. So how can the Secretary of State maintain that such a statement of office is politically uncolored, as the Prime Minister suggested at the APB?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u12	If I had the feeling that this is politically coloured and does not do justice to reality... We see and hear the news from Syria every day. At the beginning of this year there seemed to be a revival: perhaps it would turn out to be good. The rest of the year we have seen very little of that. When you read that paper, you're wondering if it doesn't fit in with reality. The reality in Syria is that it is completely unsafe there. I hope very much, first and foremost for the people of Syria itself, that this will change in the coming years, but that is not the issue now. In that respect, the content of the ministry's message does not differ from the image and perception we have elsewhere in the world. Then we will continue to consult with international organisations, with our neighbouring countries, with the EU. There are also sightings on the scene. All of this makes the contents of the notice. I think we have a very good and high tradition in the Netherlands. In this respect, therefore, I do not agree with the view expressed by Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u13	It is simply a fact that tens of thousands of Syrians have already returned to Syria on their own. Apparently, it's safe enough for them. Despite what's in the notice, there's no denying it. This is also mentioned in the notice itself. But to give another example, I have just read that the Danish Government has decided to declare Somalia a largely safe country, so that Somalis can also be sent back from Denmark. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take that step, like the Danish Government? Can we expect an action on that, too? Whatever Denmark can do must also be possible for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u14	For all the countries from which we have a large influx, we regularly make office messages. I do not know, in my mind, what the planning is for when a new post of office will be for Somalia, but periodically also posts on Somalia are on the agenda. At the moment, the policy of the previous post applies. By the way, in an individual case, it's always looked further. It's never static. The notice may be from some time ago. On the basis of the individual situation, a different assessment can always be made. We are also looking at what is happening internationally. At the moment, I have to remain guilty of what is planned when Somalia is back on the agenda, but I know that this is happening regularly. Then that could lead to a different judgment. But first, the contents of the post. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Overbeek's questions. First of all, he had a number of questions about foreign migrant workers, who would be very dependent on their employer in the first five years, which would encourage abuse. Under the Foreign Labour Act, an employment permit is issued in the Netherlands to the employer to have a migrant worker work for him, i.e. not for another employer. Now I have no concrete signals that this has led to the abuse of migrant workers, but I am very curious. If Mr Overbeek does have these signals, of course I take them very seriously. We have tried to contact the Ministry of Social Affairs in the suspension to see if it has an image, but that was not possible in the short time of the suspension. It is also primarily about regulation and therefore the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. In any case, what I would like to promise Mr Overbeek is to pass the questions on to the Minister of SZW with the question of whether he would like to comment more on the substance of the matter. I will also mention the date of 1 March which Mr Overbeek wanted. Of course, I cannot determine this for my fellow executive from this place, but I am going to do my utmost to do so. With these results in hand and with that reaction to your Chamber, I will also look into whether this should have an impact on the organisation of our employment permits. Another aspect raised by Mr Overbeek was the importance of the child in the Dutch procedure. In general, Dutch immigration policy takes into account the position of minors, both family and single minor foreigners. In any case, this is already doing justice to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In both the asylum procedure and the regular admission procedure, the best interests of the child have a clear place and are reflected in different policy frameworks and in the way in which procedures involving children have been set up. The interest of the child is also explicitly involved in the balancing of interests in the light of Article 8 of the ECHR. This does not mean, however, that this interest in the admission procedure should always be decisive with regard to the granting of residence. It follows from the Convention on the Rights of the Child that the best interest of the child is not the only interest, but a primary interest, alongside other social interests. There must therefore also be a balance between the best interests of the child and other interests. In this sense, there is no single definition of the 'interest of the child', as requested by Mr Overbeek. That too will have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, and it may also have been determined on a case-by-case basis. For example, taking into account the importance of the child in receiving care may require something other than taking into account the importance of the child in a return procedure, but this is taken into account in both situations. Where, for example, the importance of the child exceeds the boundaries of the department, inter-departmental consultation takes place. Examples are the consultation on youth care between VWS and Justice and Security and the consultation on education in azc's between the Ministry of OCW and my ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u15	I hear the Secretary of State say, "I think it is perfectly logical and correct that the child's interest can never be the only interest at stake and that it must be weighed against other interests. What I'm curious about is whether he could give an estimate of the percentage of those cases. So how often does it happen that the balance ultimately goes to the interests of the child, and not to the other interests that are opposite, so the social interests he puts forward in his letter? Is that in half of the cases, is that in 10% of the cases, is that in 0.5% of the cases? What am I supposed to do with that? When does this trade-off go on to allow the child's interests to prevail?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u16	I understand Mr Overbeek's question. I've come across a lot of questions about numbers since I got here. We're not registering this. We do not keep an accurate record in the statistics on the grounds on which asylum is ultimately granted an asylum question, precisely because a lot of acceptances have been made on a situational basis and in many cases it is simply not for one reason, but there can be a combination of circumstances. For this reason, I do not think it is possible to answer a question of percentages, precisely because the asylum procedure is always designed individually and on that basis leads to an individual decision and people, if they do not agree, can also appeal or appeal. My impression is that, as I have just said, we have ensured in many ways that the best interests of the child are taken into account and that they are widely used in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u17	I understand there's no hard data available. I will come back to the implications which I believe could be attached to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u18	The Secretary of State says it is taken into account, along with other interests. I'm kind of wondering what's going on here. Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as Article 24 of the Charter, which, of course, has almost all become EU law, says quite literally: the child's interests are the first consideration in all the acts of a Member State. The question is, how does that relate to those other interests? What, then, is the meaning of "form the first recital" according to the Secretary of State? It may well be that there are other interests at stake, but I think this is stronger than 'it is also an interest that weighs'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u19	No, it's an interest that weighs very strongly. There has been a lot of debate on this in the past, and there is case law on it. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that the interests of the child are, and I must do so in English, 'a' primary group, and not 'the' primary group. That is to say, it is a very important matter, but not the only one, and it is therefore also considered in the context of the rest of the situation. The importance of the child is very important, but it is not always decisive. This is the meaning of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and so it has been further explained in judgments in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u20	Just for the sake of clarity, because the Court of Justice is always mentioning the greater importance of the child. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this interest of the child is the most important thing that should ultimately play a role in these decisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u21	It is a major issue, but not the decisive one. In the Netherlands, this has been secured in many ways in the procedure, by hearing amvs separately, by fully grafting them onto the child, by paying special attention to the position of children in other asylum procedures if necessary. This has therefore been secured in many ways, and then by the way in which we take them into account, for example, in the reception. But it is not an absolute and decisive issue, and it is never meant to be. Mr Overbeek also asked about the recent note by a number of professors on the damage caused to minors by the threat of expulsion. That report once again confirms to me that a long-term stay in the Netherlands without a permanent right of residence is in all respects an undesirable situation for everyone. It is precisely for this reason, and also because mapping it in its large context is a problem which concerns many people, that I have set up the independent committee led by Mr Van Zwol, which is going to investigate all aspects that contribute to the fact that foreigners often stay in the Netherlands for a long time despite the rejection of the application for admission and the resulting obligation to leave. I have agreed with the committee that this year, in the first half of June, a final report and a coherent set of recommendations will be made. I think we're gonna have that report in hand to see if we can reach breakthroughs in this. In addition, I would like to point out that the starting point of the cabinet, and not only of this cabinet but for many years now, is that when a foreigner no longer has the right to stay in the Netherlands, he should leave the Netherlands. When returning to the country of origin, rejected foreigners and their children will generally have to fit in and adapt to the society of the country of origin. For some of them, this implies limitations to the extent to which they can develop and develop on return compared to the Dutch situation. That's always gonna happen. These restrictions can be profound, but they do not in themselves constitute sufficient grounds for granting a residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u22	Actually, I hear the Secretary of State turning the case around. He says that this report confirms to me that we need to get rid of this long-term residence, and we are setting the procedures as far as possible. I can go along with that to some extent. The fact is that a large number of children are in the Netherlands, often born here and in any case raised here, who actually have little or no message about all the considerations attached to them by the Secretary of State. Those children have not fled, they have not applied for asylum, they are entirely dependent on their parents in this position, but after so many years they also build up their own legal status. The rights of the child under the Convention on the Rights of the Child are not derived from the legal status or position of the parents, but they are defined as independent. As these children are longer in the Netherlands, this strengthens their independent legal position. I am therefore not satisfied with the reasoning put forward by the Secretary of State here. All the better if it were possible to shorten those procedures and reach responsible decisions much faster, but this is not the case in reality for a large group. And if I'm a little realistic, I suspect there'll always be a category that doesn't apply in the future. The kids are building up rights on their own. I see this far too little in the Secretary of State's approach. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u23	To sum up, Mr Overbeek says that it is a fact that children who are long-term here are rooting. This would give rise to independent rights of the child. The fact that there is more or less rooting through long-term residence has never been an independent basis in the past and, moreover, on appeal to the courts for a different assessment of the desirability of the children and their parents staying. I also see in this report the reason to say that if those professors feel that this is causing great harm to the child, then it is equally an incentive for parents to assume their responsibility and not to persevere endlessly in their stay in the Netherlands, which is without perspective. In fact, it is quite easy to prevent an eviction, the threat of an eviction. This can be avoided by turning to the Return and Departure Service or the IOM and entering a journey of voluntary return, including all the return support and reintegration options associated with it. I also understand that there are people who do not make that choice, but that would at least be the most probate means of putting an end to that threat of expulsion. Because voluntary return to any country in the world is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u24	In short, Mr. Overbeek, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. I note that the Secretary of State actually confirms what I am saying. He says again that the position of those children doesn't have to be that way, because the parents have all kinds of choices. He also says, when he talks about Professor Scherder's report et cetera: if he has to return to his homeland after some time, everyone will have some adjustment difficulties, but that is no different. I really believe that the report, based on a lot of empirical research, makes it clear that it is much more harmful for children aged 6 to 12 years than for the adults mentioned by the Secretary of State. I therefore believe that we have not yet reached a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u26	I also suspect that we are not entirely in agreement. In addition, I would like to say a few words. It's about the child's major interest. But that is interpreted very one-dimensionally, also on the basis of the report, as a right of residence. The best interests of the child need not always lead to residence. For example, it can also lead to additional reception conditions. It may also lead to particular aspects of custody. It can also lead to additional guarantees on return, which the Dutch system also provides generously. In the residence procedures, it means that the child can not only have a derived right of residence from parents, but also a self-employed right. But in the end, all this can lead to the decision being that there is no right of residence in the Netherlands. At any rate, it is possible to avoid damage by parents who then opt for voluntary return, which in any case does not address the threat of expulsion or detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u27	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one sentence. I hear the Secretary of State speak once or twice again in his speech about return. We are talking about children for whom the concept of "return" has absolutely no meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u29	No, but for whom no right of residence has been established in the Netherlands. I can't make it prettier. Mr. Chairman. Another poignant situation is the situation on the Greek islands. Then I guess I'll just have to start with the beginning. Mr Overbeek's question was about taking the example of Portugal with regard to the relocation of 1,000 people from Greece to Portugal. My answer actually starts along the line of the question: what is a sustainable way in which we can improve the situation there? Then we must at least get to the essence of the agreements between the EU and Turkey. They assume that a rapid asylum procedure on the Greek islands will be established for most people, i.e. that there is no asylum permit in Europe. Along that line people will go back to Turkey. In order to cut off the human traffickers' business model, someone else in the shelter in Turkey is being re-established in Europe. There is a rapid settlement of asylum procedures on the Greek islands or in Greece. That's the biggest bottleneck right now. Greece has failed in recent years. In the spring of this year, the asylum legislation has been amended and says that it is now speeding up something step by step, but we know that the delays are enormous and that they are also particularly at the occupational stage. The sustainable solution is not to bring migrants staying on the islands to mainland Greece. I went to Samos myself in the spring. I am going back to Greece this winter, by the way. I'll get to that in a minute. Then what do we do to address the Greek government? I have also noticed that when you take people out of shelter on the islands and transfer them to the mainland, which is also happening to a generous extent, because everyone who is considered vulnerable is being transferred to a shelter on the mainland, which then creates a free place on the islands. There is also an information network between people staying on the islands and the smugglers in Turkey. They can simply set the clock on it: at the moment when people were transferred from a shelter on an island to the mainland, the boats set course for that island after one, two, three days. And so they keep constant pressure on those islands. So that's not where the solution is. The solution lies in something that the European Union has already done generously in recent years: to increase Greece's assistance. Since 2014, more than EUR 1.8 billion of aid has been made available to the Greek authorities for reception conditions and for improvements in the asylum procedure. It was not enough to spend that money. That is the first issue in which the Netherlands has been helped. From the IND there is a what we call "exhausting expert" stationed in Greece, which helps the Greek authorities to make use of European funds. In addition, the Netherlands, like many other countries in Europe, continuously provides experts through EASO, the European Asylum Agency, through Frontex and bilaterally. At the moment, in terms of number of EASO experts, the Netherlands is the second after Germany. 15% of the employees on the Greek islands are from the Netherlands. We have also had moments when it was a quarter of the employees. The Netherlands, therefore, is a plentiful source of supply, and that is precisely the problem of much more than many other European Member States. That's the plea I make all the time. I have done this twice this autumn with my colleagues in the JHA Council. Look how special it is what's happening there. At least that's an appointment with a third country. You can find all kinds of things, but with a lot of countries in Africa we still have to make those agreements. So let us in the European Union ensure that at least this agreement can be kept. So I constantly call on colleagues in other Member States to provide experts to the same extent. But then the real solution to the problem lies with the Greek Government, which therefore receives staff from other Member States, who receives ample money for it, but still fails to organise it properly. Also recently, in the JHA Council of two weeks ago, I addressed both the European Commissioner and my Greek colleague. They have assured me that they have yet again scheduled a number of consultations this month in order to look together at how in any case the reception conditions with the winter on their way were actually those conditions in the last month could be improved badly with European support. But to put it in context: Greece currently has quite a clear inflow. If 30,000 people enter a year; that number also enters the Netherlands. We only have a lot more people at the IND and COA than we do in Greece. It is also assumed in Greece that status holders should find only one place elsewhere in Europe, but last year Greece had 7,000 consents to an asylum permit. That is a number that, given the size of a country like Greece, with a population of 10 million people, you should be able to resettle, just like all the other countries in Europe. However, I am constantly calling on the Greek colleague to do so. There is a lot of work to be done in this regard to ensure that they also improve their own organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u30	One interruption, Mr Overbeek.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the Secretary of State that we should not discuss the Turkey deal here, so I will not do that. I am also grateful for all the efforts made by the Dutch Government and the State Secretary himself to improve this situation. I note, however, that the Secretary of State is always putting the blackbird back in the Greek Government. Greece has not closed the Turkey deal. That is what the European Union has done. I would like to point out, and in that sense, that I consider my comments to support his efforts in Brussels, that it is the European Union that is obliged to find a decent solution for these people, who have landed between shore and ship and are stuck on those islands, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u32	We do not disagree. That is what all my efforts are aimed at. Moreover, the EU-Turkey Declaration was agreed with the knowledge of Greece. Financial resources have also been made available to Greece to a large extent. In that respect, it's mandatory. The Netherlands has an extremely strong commitment to this declaration and also to support Greece, in particular because it was established during the Dutch Presidency of the EU. But in this area, the Netherlands also delivers a lot. The reality is, however, that I continue to state here that I feel more and more a kind of crying in the desert. Since the conclusion of the EU-Turkey Declaration, the attention of many colleagues in Europe has been increasingly focused on, for example, the situation in Italy and/or the western Mediterranean route to Spain. In this respect, attention is decreasing for Greece. That is precisely why I am constantly keeping it on the agenda and constantly calling on colleagues to continue to contribute not only in numbers but also in quality with people who carry out asylum procedures there. That is a difference that the Netherlands is doing better than the other countries. On average, our experts from the IND stay longer on the islands, so they also gain and transfer more experience and expertise, and come back more often on average. For example, after a year they choose to go back to work there for a few months. In doing so, our efforts are substantially different from what a number of other EU Member States are doing, who may be making people available, but for such a short number of weeks that they will return home by the time they are integrated. I'll keep working on it. I don't think we disagreed on that either. Then there is the question of whether, like Portugal, we can invite a number of people here in the Netherlands. I also received that question recently in the Lower House. I answered that in the negative. The reason for this is that we still have to deal with the current situation, where the influx into a number of other countries, including southern Europe, has declined considerably, with the fact that the influx into the Netherlands is still at the same level as in 2017 and 2016, after the conclusion of the EU-Turkey declaration. That is the problem of secondary migration in Europe. About half of the influx into the Netherlands is not registered in any other European Union country. This means that, without registration, we have been able to cross six or seven borders across the country. That is not a unique Dutch problem. The same applies to Belgium, Germany, and Scandinavia. In the debate in Europe, we also want to recognise this problem. Portugal is now saying: we are going to relocate 1,000 people from Greece. I think it is fantastic that Portugal is doing this and is contributing, because the influx into Portugal in the first half of this year was a twentieth of the influx into the Netherlands. Maybe 1,000 for Portugal is still far too little. However, in terms of solidarity in Europe, it might have been possible to do more, but it is not up to the Netherlands to say: on top of the relocation arrangements we are going to relocate even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u33	The Secretary of State says that the influx has not actually decreased since 2016, because we are dealing with that secondary stream of people who have come here through six, seven safe countries. Does he see persons who are supposedly on the run from their safety, pass through six, seven safe countries and then come to the Netherlands to settle in our welfare state, as people who seek protection here, or are they purely and exclusively lucky seekers who are then protected here? Is that what the Secretary of State is offering to those who have passed through all those safe countries? Should we not simply go beyond our own borders to protect our country from such streams of fortune seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u34	That's a lot of questions. We have already discussed them in a debate in the spring. For reasons of nuance: in absolute numbers, the composition changes, because in 2016 it was mainly a lot of first requests. Over the last few years, it's been a lot of followers. The acceptance rate also changes. Where it was in 2015, 2016 many requests from Syrians who were often accepted, the acceptance rate is now lower, because the influx is much more diverse. The simple answer is: people who are accepted are apparently people who need protection. It's always assessed individually. For people who are not accepted, that is not true. There are indeed many people in between who are not granted and who do not need protection. It is a major problem in Europe that we have been able to cross six or seven borders. That is precisely what the focus is on in the reform of the European asylum system. I constantly draw attention to the fact that in the outside world it seems as if three countries in Europe have the biggest problem, Italy, Greece and Spain, with a high influx of over the Mediterranean, but that this is no longer doing justice to reality. The biggest problem is in North-West Europe, the Benelux countries, Germany and the Scandinavian countries, where there is the secondary influx due to the fact that the external borders, often in southern or eastern Europe, are not sufficiently registered. That's the problem I'm constantly raising. A review of the European asylum system will also have to provide a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u35	Apparently, all these measures, including at European level, have no effect whatsoever. It is not for nothing that we had this discussion in February too, and we must continue to have it. As long as people who come here are given protection, it is said that they deserve it, while they have passed through all those safe countries, we are not achieving anything here. When will the Secretary of State say: enough is enough, we are not going to offer that protection here anymore? When is he actually going to maintain the Dublin agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u36	The Dublin Agreements are maintained. However, they do not always provide a solution under the current Dublin Regulation, for example because fingerprints are only kept for 18 months. If there are cases after that, we will be unable to deal with the current Dublin regulation. That is why that regulation needs to be revised. The question behind this relates to the closing of borders, but I do not want to go there for two reasons. The first is that it would cause serious damage to the Netherlands in particular. We live on trade, export and abroad. I was a port alderman in Rotterdam. I know what a blow that would be for Dutch logistics, for example. The second reason is that I see at the moment that border controls are indeed taking place and borders are being maintained at a number of borders in Europe. We see this, for example, in the open countries, Austria, Germany, Slovenia and Austria. However, the effect is that this year 200,000 people are still entering Germany. Those in line in front of the border are commuters, tourists, day workers and truck drivers. So we should not have the illusion that we can guarantee 100% of the borders in that sense. In fact, a country like Hungary boasts that it is building fences at its borders, but is currently also responsible for a large secondary influx in Europe, because even borders with fences are no comfort to ensure that people do not cross the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u37	Finally, very briefly, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u38	The Secretary of State is now putting it back on the story of trade and border controls leading to congestion and such, but closing borders is not the same as border control. It's also about determining who you may or may not allow in your country. As long as the Netherlands, this Secretary of State, this Rutte cabinet, states that all these groups are protected here, you also have open borders. A step towards closing borders is also to say that these foreigners are simply not welcome here anymore. If they've crossed all these boundaries, they're not looking for security, they're looking for our prosperity. When is the Rutte cabinet prepared to take that step? Because you recognise the problem that it is mainly countries in North-West Europe that attract asylum migration. When do you dare to take the step instead of endlessly keeping the borders open for those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u39	I would like to put this argument alongside the criticism that I often get from others, that the Netherlands is far too strict in the asylum procedures and that people are unjustly rejected. Everywhere, on every asylum application, is assessed individually. The acceptance rate is less than 50% at present. This means that we make an individual assessment of everyone and that protection is only at issue when you actually need that protection. For many of the people we are talking about, it does not, in the end, offer any comfort to come to the Netherlands, because the moment they have no motive for fleeing and no asylum story, there is no asylum permit in the Netherlands. I turn to the questions put by Mrs Strik in connection with the intention in the government agreement to limit legal aid from the stage of implementing a rejection plan. First of all, I'd like to start procedurally. Mrs Strik's first question was whether it was an AMvB rather than a legislative amendment. That's right. The measure will be implemented by an amendment of the Legal Aid Decision. That is a general measure of governance. In the light of Article 49 of the Legal Aid Act, this is subject to a pending procedure. This means that the draft decision will soon be forwarded to the First and Second Chambers. Both chambers will therefore be given an opportunity to respond. The draft decision is also placed in the Official Journal so that everyone has the opportunity to respond to it. In this sense, I have also understood Mrs Strik's questions. These are questions which, of course, play a role in the design of the draft decision, to which there is still an opportunity to respond in future. I could leave it at that, but perhaps it would be useful in order to prepare for that debate to deal briefly with a number of the questions put by Mrs Strik, which, of course, also provide some inspiration in further shaping the proposed decision, so that we can at least do something about context and coloration. Anyway, there's another final draft proposal. They're gonna put that in front of both rooms. In this context, the following should be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u40	I am very pleased that the Secretary of State is going to go into the substance of the matter, because it is already quite clearly stated in the coalition agreement as an intention. Just a practical question: do I understand that it is a so-called light procedure, which lasts four weeks and also applies to the field and to the States-General, and that it cannot be interrupted by us? Suppose we have questions about it, isn't it just that four-week period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u41	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But I'll explain it in a little more detail in the second term. Let's talk about the purpose of the measure. That's not an improvement or relief of the legal profession. As far as we are concerned, it is a consequence and a logical consequence of the fact that one of the other principles in the government agreement is that we also want to further harmonise everything about asylum procedures in Europe. This is, of course, also the greater aim of the revision of the common European asylum system. In anticipation, the aim is to ensure that national law does not go beyond what European law requires. It is therefore the main aim of this measure to be more consistent with European regulation and implementation practice, in our neighbouring countries in this part of Europe, which we have also been inspired by. Mrs Strik asked whether an implementation test should not first be carried out with the IND. Now it is true that the IND is obviously exploring the impact of these measures on the process and on capacity. This will be involved in the elaboration of this measure and then also in the actual implementation, which will of course be developed in close coordination with the IND. In the coalition agreement there is a hint of savings. That is also a subject of research at the moment. On the one hand, it will save on the amount of subsidised legal aid. Some of them are, of course, also needed for the steps that are now accompanied by legal aid. The work does not disappear, so that will have to be done by others, in this case the IND. In due course, the proposal will provide you with more detailed information about this in due course. I do not recognize the picture that chain partners would not want this measure, because we are working on the whole chain to prepare this measure as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u42	Just one thing about the processual aspect. I hear the Secretary of State say that the concept of AMvB will be published in the foreseeable future. At the same time, the Secretary of State says: of course, further research is being carried out into the consequences of this. My point is: shouldn't the order be reversed, namely that you should first examine what the effects will be, in order to assess whether it is desirable to go in this direction at all? In my first term, I indicated that it remains an optional provision in the directive. It is therefore not necessarily an end in itself in relation to European legislation. But it can cost us a great deal, namely the care of a procedure and perhaps even a heavier burden on the IND. Maybe the Secretary of State can go into it after all if you don't want to map it first. I'm a little shocked by his remark that maybe the IND will take over the role of the lawyers. Of course, that's a bit crazy: a lawyer obviously has a very different role in such a procedure than the IND. The IND must assess, but it cannot at the same time play that role by going ahead with the asylum seeker to examine the relevance of the asylum seeker and so on. That doesn't fit in with our rule of law, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u43	Of course, the IND identifies the consequences of these measures, but that is also what I have indicated. I am talking about the trial and the consequences. That is done when the draft proposal is published. That is not yet ready, so in that sense I understood Mrs Strik's question in such a way that there has to be an execution test in advance. Well, of course, there's a reconnaissance of those consequences right now. I'll be back in a minute on guarantees and so on. Mrs Strik also asked about this: what is the practical effect of this on the steps now being accompanied by legal aid? Of course, an asylum seeker must continue to be well prepared for the asylum procedure. At present, refugee work provides for part of the Netherlands. It's gonna stay that way. The IND will also be given a clear task. This also brings us in line with how this is done in many of our neighbouring countries. There is therefore no reason to assume that the information required for the conduct of a careful asylum procedure cannot come to the asylum seeker via these means or other means. Another consequence to which Mrs Strik referred was the question: what would be the significance of this in the case-law? There we have the impression that a very high percentage of the rejections is appealing. For 2010, when this practice was introduced, and after 2010. Out of my mind, that's about 90%. In that sense, I think that there could hardly be any more numerical consequences, because the percentage of appeals is very high. I don't blame people for that either, because of course it's kind of a last chance they have after a rejection. How do we ensure that care is not affected? It remains clear that asylum seekers with whom the IND intends to reject the application will be assigned a lawyer. Asylum seekers, like now, will always be provided with all necessary legal and procedural information at the start of the procedure. Furthermore, they will continue to be helped in the preparation of corrections and additions to the hearing. And in the event that the application is rejected, that negative decision can, of course, always be submitted to the court, including legal aid. I believe that this offers sufficient guarantees. And it is not, therefore, a win-win situation that we really need to give up in favour of EU harmonisation. I don't recognize that. Again, it also stems from the cabinet's desire for harmonisation at European level, which we are also working for in the EU. In doing so, we offer the same guarantees that are also offered in all our neighbouring countries and which, in my view, also create an extremely good position for the asylum seeker. In this respect, I do not expect any other or negative consequences for the lead times, nor does it affect the mandate of the Van Zwol Committee in this respect. After all, both now and after the implementation of this measure, there will always be a careful asylum procedure for the cabinet. I therefore have no reason to believe that recommendations to which the Van Zwol Committee will come will stand in the way of this measure. The one about legal aid. But as I said, I hope to have the draft proposal and draft decision ready in the short term and to be able to start the pending procedure. I shall come back to the precise procedure in the second term. Before I start the Global Compact for Migration, I have to address Mrs Strik's question about the position of Venezuelans on Aruba and Curaçao. Among other things, there is intensive contact between the Dutch Cabinet and the authorities on Curaçao and Aruba. However, the involvement of the Netherlands in dealing with the situation that has arisen as a result of the Venezuelan crisis is also bound by constitutional boundaries, I say. After all, both Aruba and Curaçao is an autonomous country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Migration policy and foreign detention are matters of the individual countries within the Kingdom's legal order. This means that Curaçao and Aruba are themselves responsible for pursuing appropriate migration and detention policies. Nevertheless, where requested and possible, the Netherlands offers help and assistance. At the request of Curaçao in particular, this support has already been established in several areas. Curaçao is itself responsible for achieving the fundamental rights and freedoms of people, legal certainty and sound administration under Article 43 of the Statute. Where necessary and requested, the Netherlands provides assistance, because together we are part of one Kingdom. However, the use of the guarantee function is not the issue, because that really is an ultimatum remedium. So only if there is such and structural dysfunction of one or more public bodies of Curaçao, where there is an unacceptable situation, that there is no remedy for the alleged abuses and that all possible previous measures have not been or have not been successful, can the use of that guarantee function be considered. This also applies to the recommendations of the CAT mentioned by Mrs Strik. I myself took note of the recommendations of the CAT the day before yesterday. The cabinet will be required to provide information on a number of these recommendations next year. It's up to the cabinet now. We shall consider that first. Mrs. Strik also asked about the due diligence test on Curaçao. Migration policy is closely linked to the area of human rights. With regard to Curaçao's migration policy, it is important that Curaçao is obliged to comply with the obligations arising from the ECHR. Under Article 3 of the ECHR, the authorities of Curaçao may not expel migrants if the expulsion entails a real risk of torture, inhuman or inhumane treatment. Whether this is the case will have to be considered on a case-by-case basis. In this context, it does not matter whether the migrant Curaçao has been travelling illegally or legally, or has been staying there for some time, whether illegally or not. The existing Article 3 procedure may need to be amended, I say to Mrs Strik, because, on the basis of information from the Curaçao authorities, a person who has been resident in Curaçao for some time cannot currently invoke that procedure under the current procedure under Article 3 of the ECHR. In order to remove this ambiguity, the Ministry of Justice and Security is currently discussing the establishment of the relevant procedures with Curaçao. It is now the case that the Netherlands has made funds available for the improvement of foreign detention. Mrs. Strik asked: was that the first thing we had to do? Fortunately, the Netherlands also does more. In early June, several Dutch services and departments, including the IND, visited Curaçao, focusing on the further development of migration policy there and the processes for handling larger numbers of migrants. At the request of the Minister of Justice of Curaçao, experts from the IND and the Ministry of Justice and Security made a frequent follow-up visit to Curaçao in August. This focused with names on the start of discussions on optimising the Article 3 ECHR application procedure. In November, a delegation from Curaçao in the Netherlands visited the IND, for example. There they have learned about the different foreign chain processes in the Netherlands. Something similar also applies to Aruba, with which such a flow of knowledge exchange has already started. In this sense, therefore, we feel very connected and, on the contrary, we are doing more than just providing financial assistance for foreign detention. On the contrary, it is very much aimed at providing knowledge, expertise and knowledge about the processes and procedures. But all this is under the responsibility of the Curaçao Government, which must also indicate the areas in which it needs help and assistance from the Netherlands. Mr President, I come now to the many questions raised in connection with the Global Compact for Migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u44	Secretary of State, how much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u45	Could you do it in five minutes? I suspect so many questions have been asked that I need ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u46	Try that. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u47	Yes. I have sent a letter to the House of Representatives on this matter, and to my knowledge, a copy has also been sent to the House of Lords. That letter contains the cabinet position on that Global Compact. I will not repeat everything that is said about the objective, where it is good for the Netherlands, and how we see it as a diplomatic instrument, in particular that very difficult discussion with third countries on the basis of these principles could perhaps be resumed. If I do not have to repeat all of this, it will save time again. However, it is important to reiterate here that in the text of that Global Compact, let me briefly mention GCM, it is clearly stated that it is not legally binding. That has also been explicitly asked for. It is also important that this text also confirms the sovereignty of states, including the sovereign right to manage borders, to pursue their own admission policies and to distinguish between regular and irregular migrants on the basis of their own legislation. The cabinet then looked at what is further in all these objectives. And we have established that none of them is not included in other, actually binding documents. Think of the ECHR, think of EU legislation, think of other international conventions. That is not surprising either, because the practice in Europe, and therefore also in the Netherlands, has often been used as a reference point in drawing up that pact. We have then recognised that this document can be inspired by legal procedures. We cannot prevent this from happening. Mr Van Hattem asked for this too. We acknowledge that this can be done, but of course I cannot predict where it will happen. But we did consider the question: what would that actually mean in practice? On the one hand, we have found that there is nothing in that pact that goes beyond current EU and international obligations. Nor does it contain any concrete legally enforceable standards. In order to avoid future misunderstandings and to neutralize the possibility of such a different interpretation, we have said that we will make a statement of position with a number of European countries in response to the vote in the General Assembly in New York. Mr Van Hattem then commented on a part of the text that says a lot about the implementation of the Pact. This already falls under the circumstances I have just mentioned, so that it is not legally binding and that it does not affect the sovereignty of Member States. You can see it as an instrument of diplomacy, so for conducting conversations between countries. Of course, it is not legally binding for other countries either. I mean, I would like everything from countries in Africa in particular, from the extent to which they are going to take their own nationals back to providing them with adequate identity documents. But this is not binding on them either. Well, this might be another step towards having that conversation. It is the first time that they have voted in favour of a text which provides a basis for good migration policy. The next item is implementation. I said earlier, because Mr Overbeek asked for this too, that the Netherlands has no homework to do. The 23 objectives are already fully realised in Dutch mainstream migration policy. Such an implementation conference, which will then be held every two years, can of course be a very good tool to inspire other countries. At the same time, this is what a country like the Netherlands, which has been doing a lot of these things well for many years now, can offer. The Netherlands can provide expertise once countries say: we do want to shape our own migration policy better in the coming period, we want to regulate it better for our own nationals and we want to prevent parts of our population from being forced to get into a boat, with all the risk of drowning and other illegal migration. That could just be a consideration for countries in Africa. And that is, for example, one of the things that we, the Netherlands, would like to provide help and assistance to. At the same time, this is also the policy of fellow Minister Kaag. It is just not the case, either at the Dutch level or at the EU level, that someone can force us to achieve objectives or to draw on the non-binding policy options. We are bound by what is established in the Common European Asylum System. That's where we're at. That is what the government is sitting at the table, and I have a debate on this with the two Chambers. It is not the case that the EU is committed to implementing something of this pact, stronger: the EU is not even party to it. This is a United Nations resolution and United Nations Member States are voting on it. The fact that some of the EU countries do not support this compact means by definition that this is not something that the EU is about to implement. It is part of the UN's positions at the time it was adopted in New York. Member States could be inspired by it in shaping sound migration policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u48	One interruption, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can the Secretary of State rule out the fact that the European Union is going to implement this migration pact into its policy in any way and impose it on the Netherlands through whatever EU policy it takes? Can the Secretary of State rule that out? He says it's non-binding. That is why I ask you once again: is the pact entirely, but indeed totally non-binding, regardless of any possible obligation arising from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u50	When I say that it is not legally binding, it is non-binding in Mr Van Hattem's terms. If he means "non-binding" in the sense that we have no wishes from other countries and that we have no desire to have talks with third countries, then it is not without obligation. On the contrary, we want to talk about all those aspects that are enshrined in the Dutch Agenda on Migration: that we want to tackle root causes, address the business models of the smugglers, we want to counter a large irregular flow to Europe, and that the world is better off if each country has a normal, regular migration policy. Many countries other than the EU Member States do not have that. Of course, there lies the ambition of the Dutch cabinet. Can I rule out the EU ever doing anything about it? I cannot rule out the EU making a proposal at that level. However, as a member of the EU, the Netherlands is at the table in the EU. It doesn't commit to anything. On the basis of our vote in favour of the statement of position in the UN General Assembly, we are not obliged to take any binding measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u51	Mr. Van Hattem, I said one interruption. You still have a second term. We really need to hurry up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u52	Mr Van Hattem also spoke about that document No. 168 of the EU with an authorisation. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say once again that this was a proposal from the European Commission. This has never been discussed again, let alone put to the vote, given that Hungary had already withdrawn from the discussion on the GCM at that time. That authorisation was never granted to the European Commission. Mr Overbeek asked whether it was compact for the government to make agreements, for example, between countries in the European Union and the African Union. I have just said that they are not made at Union level, but above all between countries. We in the European Union have, of course, a common ambition to achieve better agreements with third countries, especially in Africa. And there is a great ambition of this cabinet. So I hope for that discussion, particularly because African countries also support this pact, but that will not happen overnight; it will take years. We can make it a better follow-up than we have done in recent years. In particular, with the question about this vicious circle of migration from sub-Saharan Africa and whether countries in Europe are prepared to offer something, Mr Overbeek refers to opportunities for legal migration. That is what the Agenda on Migration is all about. Now, however, after the publication of the integrated migration agenda, the House of Representatives voted by a majority in a motion that the idea was not so charmed, so to speak. I indicated in the debate with the House of Representatives that I would nevertheless continue to examine whether this would allow for a significant improvement in the return to those countries. It may be advisable to resume the debate on whether it is wise to offer certain opportunities for legal migration. It really doesn't have to be about work permits, it can also be about study permits or something like that. It is true: if we want better agreements from Europe with third countries to curb irregular migration, we must always be aware that these countries do not have to say yes and that it requires a good conversation to see how we can make it work. To this end, the government has already set the principle of "less for less" and "more for more" as its starting point in the Agenda on Migration. Of course, aid and assistance, as has just been mentioned, can also be provided in many other areas, for example in the form of expertise in the design of migration policies. Some countries in North Africa, which used to be a transit country, are becoming more and more a destination country now that migrants are stranded there. They can also use assistance in this area, just as they can use assistance in repatriating people to their countries of origin. Mr Van Hattem asked if I could confirm that I am not going to implement anything from the GCM. I have just indicated that this obliges the cabinet to do nothing in terms of execution. But our own ambitions are contained in the integrated migration agenda, which we are obviously implementing. That is also the answer to a question by Mr Overbeek on this subject. With these ambitions, of course, we want to get to work. We hope that with the established principles we can get that conversation a little further. Chancellor Merkel was asked for statements. There is talk in the media that it would have stressed that the compact would be binding. This refers to a debate in the Bundestag. We have looked up the report on this. It has indicated that the principles of international cooperation are at stake in this case. The sovereignty of Member States is paramount. She said that the 'legal cousin is binding'. In Dutch: het is legally not binding. At last week's Marrakesh conference, she explicitly repeated this. I'll take the message, but I've heard it from her mouth otherwise. Apart from that, the Pact itself states that it is not legally binding. It was then asked to what extent the pact could be terminated, referring to Brazil's proposed change of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u53	An interruption from Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u54	I also looked at the fragment from the German Bundestag. There I heard Merkel say very clearly that if a UN resolution is adopted by two thirds of the votes, it will be binding on all Member States. Can the Secretary of State make it quite clear how this declaration by one of Europe's most important Heads of Government should be interpreted and what consequences this could have, including for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u55	It has set out the working methods of the UN General Assembly. If we vote on a resolution on the Global Compact in this case, it will be adopted when two thirds of the Member States vote for it. This is similar to the procedure in your Chamber, in the case of a motion: if that motion is adopted by majority, it is therefore an adopted motion. This makes it one of the principles and principles of the United Nations, as stated in the cabinet position. But these in themselves do not legally bind the Member States. That is also the answer to the question about Brazil's position. Something remarkable is happening there: the vote is tomorrow, but Brazil says to withdraw from it next year. I shall compare that with another parliament that has adopted a motion. I do not think you can say three months later: we are withdrawing retroactively from that motion or something like that. At the same time, this method already shows that it is really not a treaty. A treaty is about ratification, but not here. So it's what it is: it's a set of principles and principles how you can shape orderly migration policies, including the ability to make a difference between regular and irregular migrants, which might take the fight against irregular migration and the conversation about it in the world, which is urgently needed, a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u56	Do you manage to be ready around four o'clock?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u57	Yes. Finally, questions have been asked about the other compact, the Global Compact on Refugees. I would like to conclude with the questions put by Mr Van Dijk. I'll do my best in two minutes. This aspect has been dealt with by Mrs Kaag from the cabinet, precisely because of the fact that this pact is trying to regulate something that we in the Netherlands and Europe are very keen to and increasingly want, namely reception in the region. In fact, it states that refugees need two things: protection and a roof over their heads. We arrange both here in the Netherlands and in Europe. We have an asylum procedure and we have shelter. But in many other regions of the world this is not enough. So that other pact is actually a kind of manual how to shape it better. In this sense, it is very welcome and also widely supported. Only two UN Member States have not participated in this. That pact is based on the UN Refugee Treaty as it is. Do not say that the UN Refugee Convention could never be changed. In 2019, the cabinet announced that it would launch an independent investigation into what is needed to make that treaty in due course and thus to provide, as it were, a legal framework for international asylum policy in the future. This is what it was meant to do in recent years: the UN Refugee Convention has been setting out the framework since 1951 how countries are also internationally approachable to providing protection to refugees. That is what international policy is all about. It is not the case that we are proposing somewhere that international policy should be redesigned by someone on our behalf. In addition, we only start with an investigation. Moreover, the other pact is not legally binding either. However, I think that the value of this is perhaps even greater, namely that countries that also have to offer reception in the region are speaking out for the first time. Let me say straight away that many countries in the region are thinking of the neighbouring countries of Syria receiving millions of refugees, much more so than in Europe. Finally, Mr Van Dijk gave some reflection on the implementation of the migration pact, the GCM. He drew this more broadly to the question of international treaties. I have just found that these compacts are not international treaties. They have the same status as the many hundreds of resolutions adopted annually in the UN General Assembly, which the Cabinet, with the Foreign Minister in particular, regularly informs the Chambers of. The specific questions put by Mr Van Dijk go a little further than just my portfolio. They also concern the constitutional order, i.e. at least the colleagues of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. In this context, an application for an opinion to the Commission of Opinion on People's Rights would be more obvious than the AIV, given the legal approach of the questions. But I would also like to say that it is also based on the assumption that there would have been a lot of noise about the provision of information on these two UN acts, for example by changing the responsibilities between Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security. I don't share that observation. Because, as usual, sometimes the Foreign Minister and sometimes the Foreign Trade and Development Minister are responsible for what is happening in the UN. They are fully responsible for coordination, but they involve their colleagues, where appropriate, because of the themes. For example, since the adoption of the New York Declaration in 2016, there has always been cooperation between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the State Secretary for Justice and Security. Both of them, administratively and behind them, have worked closely together in shaping the contribution to this Pact. In addition, both Chambers were informed at many times. This was requested in written and oral consultations. For example, I stated in March this year that the migration agenda contains the best and shortest summary of this migration pact. About ten lines list precisely all the elements that I have just described in detail: non-legally binding, sovereignty and so on. In that sense, it couldn't have been a surprise. We have tried every time in the discussions in recent months to be clear about what it is not, with so many stories going around about what it would be but actually not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u58	Thank you, Secretary of State, for...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u59	An interruption, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u60	...your detailed explanation. As regards the implementation of this pact and the substance of my comments on it, the Secretary of State has once again stressed that the Pact itself states that there are no legal obligations, that there is nothing enforceable and so on. But that notion was indeed already in the pact from the hour zero. Nevertheless, not only in the Netherlands, but also in a whole number of other European countries, where it has even led to them not having attached their signatures to this pact, there has been noise about the effects, actually up to the present day. Is this not something that we must avoid with any authority for the future, particularly in a sensitive area such as asylum and migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u61	That it is better not to have noise, I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk. But I find it difficult to enter into the considerations of countries that ultimately do not support it. However, I note every time that the reasons I hear for this in international traffic are not reflected in the text of the Pact itself or in how we, as a cabinet, have looked at any legal implications of that pact. We in the EU did speak from the outset, when the text was adopted, about whether or not to make a statement of position. But halfway through Austria, Austria didn't support it at all. That gave me some thought, since Austria provided the input on behalf of the 27 remaining EU Member States. Nor can I always reconcile what is actually in the Pact, where Austria reported to the other 26 countries in July that it had succeeded, that the whole effort is in a good way in the Pact and that it is not legally binding. I can never quite prevent that kind of noise, because it does not find its ground in the text. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered all the questions. Thanks for the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u62	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. First of all, the Secretary of State continues to stress that the global compacts are not legally binding. But if even the government is concerned with the Marrakesh Pact in Belgium, does the Secretary of State think he can take it off with a spelling formula? If so many countries decide not to support the pact, to get out of it or to consider getting out of it, do all these countries really see it so different from this Secretary of State? Is there really no legal effect on international customary law? Because that is what can be given to frameworks by UN resolutions. Then I come to a number of specific questions. Can the Secretary of State indicate the significance of the input of the 27 EU Member States that have taken place so far? Are there any consequences, effects or possible repercussions? And if it is translated into EU policies, if it can become part of the EU acquis in any way, can the EU impose measures resulting from this Pact on the Member States by qualified majority? I would like to make that clear from the Secretary of State. Then I have a number of questions that have not been answered or have not been answered in full. The Secretary of State mentioned in his budget, among other things, the international asylum policy of the future. I asked for an explanation of how this relates to national asylum policy and how it relates to global compacts. If it is an international asylum policy, who will determine and enforce it? Then there is the provision on taking effective steps, as very clearly included in the GCM. The Secretary of State's explanation that there can be no follow-up to this does not sound very convincing to me. I do not think the Secretary of State himself is really convinced of this either, because why else would he have a statement of position? He says: it is a set of principles and principles. Principles and principles can, as the Secretary of State himself has indicated, inspire the judiciary. A starting point is a very strong framework. What could be the framework for this pact? Then I asked for a unanimous resolution that could potentially have legal effect, which the Secretary of State also indicated in his letter as a possibility. Can he clarify whether a judge is going to check whether a resolution adopted unanimously has been adopted? I am curious to see to what extent that can have an effect. I have asked for a complete overview of the international networks, civil society organisations, business and so on, which have provided their input. Can the Secretary of State provide an overview, if necessary in writing? Then I asked about the UN letter to Switzerland and Finland on the status of ratification of the Marrakesh Pact and its significance. Then I have one more point. We are already receiving e-mails with protests against the expulsions of underage asylum seekers. It is stated by the asylum activists that if, as of tomorrow, the Marrakesh Pact enters into force through the UN resolution, the Secretary of State now wants to expel asylum seekers quickly. The Marrakesh Pact is thus already being called upon. Does the Secretary of State not see in this development a prelude to how this is going to develop? In short, we really should not adopt that Marrakesh Pact. The PVV therefore calls once again to abandon this terrible self-destruct pact. That is why I would also like an opinion from the Secretary of State on the two motions tabled. Finally. I asked a question about the azc school at the azc Cranendonck. That school will be fully transferred to the village school of Maarheeze. Parents in that village are very worried. The whole composition of the school is turned upside down. Can the Secretary of State state state whether that is the intention of his asylum policy and how it relates to the support he is defending in society? Because that's how he's ruining society with his asylum policy. This is absolutely unacceptable to our society. We would like to have a reaction to that. So much for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Overbeek.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall try to make four points in the shortest possible terms. First of all, general about Global Compact on Migration. If you follow the discussion as it took place in the Netherlands, you might soon get the impression that it is compact only about the Netherlands and the Dutch problems. But let me just say here that most migration takes place outside the Dutch borders. I agree with the Secretary of State that this compact may provide a good platform for discussing various aspects of migration at the level of the United Nations. Nevertheless, I still believe, even if I listen to the words of the Secretary of State, that the approach of the Dutch Government is rather one-sided. The most striking thing was when the Secretary of State came to talk about the refugee compact and said: this pact is trying to settle something that we in Europe want very much. That's exactly the government's approach. But I also heard very cautious signs of moving insight in the discussion with the Secretary of State. There may also be a need to look more closely at the reciprocal interpretation and implementation of this compact. So we have not given up hope; this is going to be a continuous discussion. My second point is the question of employment permits. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to contact colleagues from Social Affairs and Employment. That is why we are anxiously waiting for a letter to deal with this problem. The Secretary of State also asked me to pass on information. The problem is, of course, that information is very anecdotal. That doesn't really help us. From the nature of the case, as was also shown in the debate on forced prostitution, for example, very little systematic information is available. I'll be right back at that point. Then the issue of children's rights. Child rights are also human rights. I agree, and so we can continue to join forces, with Mrs Strik's words that, in our interpretation, higher demands are being made on the weight that should be attached to the child's right. My question, which the Secretary of State has not been able to answer in any hurry, is to what extent he agrees with me that the issue of children's rights is also relevant in other policy areas. I asked about the way in which in the cabinet the direction of these children's rights and their monitoring across the boundaries of different policy areas is exercised. I would like to hear the Secretary of State speak about this in the second term. We keep talking about irregular work or illegal migrant workers. That too is a subject that we actually have very little information on. There are very cautious estimates, and I think serious research was done relatively long ago. There is a lack of information on many of the topics we are discussing. Therefore, it might be an idea to put the WODC to work on a current study of the numbers of regular and irregular migrant workers in the Netherlands from outside the European Economic Zone. Where did they come from? How long have they been here? What kind of work do they do? What problems are there? This seems good to me to know what we are talking about and to be able to make policy on the basis of facts. I think I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Overbeek. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his careful response. Of course, I have a need for a brief answer on both points. My point is that, with the abolition of legal aid, a tried and tested measure will disappear, which has always been shown to benefit care and that speed can also be guaranteed, without sufficient identification of its effects. The Secretary of State says that the IND is now looking at what that's about to mean to them. But actually that concept of AMvB is already being worked out and he goes into the consultation round. We may then be able to ask a few more questions, but the decision has already been taken. This raises a lot of questions for us, especially when the Secretary of State says that others will take over. Refugee Work, of course, has a very different role and can only provide information in general. I really don't see the IND in the position to play the role that the lawyers are playing right now. This simply contradicts the role they have in assessing the application for asylum after the event. In the end, therefore, it is at the expense of the quality of the view that the lawyer can present in that third stage, because he will only then be confronted with the history of the asylum seeker. He will then be unable to make any additions or corrections, because the stage will then be over and he will be able to fill gaps and inconsistencies. Please note: the lawyer still only has two or three hours to write such an opinion. In fact, it has the form of an objection, so that cannot maintain the same quality as it is now, because it is already the third stage that has been allocated to the lawyer. Our group, and the Labour Party, are very concerned about this. As far as the issue of getting in line with the EU is concerned, I would point out that it is still possible for us to do so, although other countries do not. More importantly, no country has such an ultra-fast procedure as the Netherlands. That's what this is about. That is precisely the point that the Dutch Government has always attached to this rapid procedure as an inseparable condition. Because of all these concerns, we would like to table a motion, which asks for the ex-ante execution test to be carried out first, not only with the IND but also to see what the consequences are for the judiciary and to what extent it can continue to ensure care. We also call for a proper analysis of the outcome of this ex ante test, in order to assess whether we should continue along this road. In other words, before you begin. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Overbeek, Mr Stienen, Mr Nooren, Mr Bikker, Mr Nagel, Mr Koffeman and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the removal of the judicial chain and the improvement of capacity are the objectives set in the cabinet's proposal that legal aid should no longer be made available until day five of the asylum procedure;]] [[Calls on both the Immigration Service and the judiciary to carry out an ex-ante execution test prior to the entry into force of the AMvB in order to determine whether the aforementioned objectives are actually served by the planned removal of legal aid without prejudice to due diligence;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of the results of this execution test, together with a conclusion on the desirability of abolishing the first two phases of legal aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Then the Venezuelan refugees in Curaçao and Aruba. I am very pleased to hear what the Secretary of State is doing to provide this assistance to these countries of the Kingdom. At the same time, the Secretary of State says that the guarantee function under Article 43 of the Statute is not yet under discussion, because then it must be a truly unsustainable situation and cannot be restored. The question is whether we have not reached that point by now. The reports, which show that the situation is unacceptable, are already at the beginning of this year. For a long time now, we have seen how bad the situation is there. This guarantee function will certainly apply, because it makes it clear that the Netherlands too, as one of the countries of the Kingdom, bears co-responsibility for the observance of human rights. So the question is whether we are not already in that situation for a long time. The Secretary of State says you do need a request. Curaçao has already made requests. The question is how exactly this request should focus on the different forms of assistance. Even if we are asked to give money for more detention, for example, I can imagine that this would give the government an opportunity to enter into active consultations and to say that we would indeed like to help you, but we think that, for example, the reception situation should be improved; we want to be able to provide you with assistance in the asylum procedure and in other ways. Last week, we received extensive information from experts, who indicated that the Statute, in particular Articles 36 and 39, provided sufficient tools for doing so. Of course, it is not just about detention conditions, precisely because the automatic detention of asylum seekers is not lawful at all. So shelters are really needed. It remains important, therefore, that the Netherlands is jointly responsible for the respect of these human rights. We would like to be informed about the government's reaction to the conclusion observations of the CAT Committee on this matter. Perhaps the Secretary of State will also be able to answer the question as to what we are going to do with their recommendation that OPCAT, i.e. the individual right of complaint, and the independent supervision also take place in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. So the Secretary of State has already indicated that he will provide assistance, but we would very much like to express further urgency on behalf of other groups by means of a motion. We urge the Secretary of State to engage actively in consultations with other government officials on this matter with the countries of the Kingdom. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Nooren, Mr Overbeek, Mr Reuten, Mr Koffeman and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that the disruption of the economy and society in neighbouring Venezuela leads to an increasing number of refugees in the countries within the Kingdom;]] [[that the individual Caribbean countries within the Kingdom have no or few frameworks and resources for humane reception and procedures, such as various human rights conventions including the ECHR;]] [[that the ECHR applies to the entire territory of the Kingdom;]] [[that, in view of the guarantee function of the Kingdom Statute, the Netherlands, as the largest country within the Kingdom, has an important responsibility for the application of the ECHR;]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the ……]] [[that organisations such as the UN Committee against Torture, Amnesty International, call the Ombudsman the alarm clock on how refugees, in violation of the ECHR and the UN Convention against Torture, are obstructed in the countries concerned in their access to asylum procedures and placed in automatic detention under often miserable circumstances;]] [[that the Kingdom Statute provides for the possibility of providing assistance and assistance to countries within the Kingdom;]] [[calls on the Ministers for Justice and for BuHa-OS and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Kingdom Affairs to provide adequate assistance in consultation with the Caribbean countries in the Kingdom to ensure that asylum seekers can be received humanely and undergo a careful and appropriate procedure to prevent any conflict with human rights at all times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, we briefly discussed the situation in Greece. The Secretary of State says that we are already doing quite a lot: we are supporting Greece, but Greece must also get its own house in order. I have some understanding for that. At the same time, Greece is also in a situation where the country has to assess asylum applications in relation to the EU-Turkey deal on the basis of the "safe third countries" concept. My question is: isn't that also an obstacle that causes it to get stuck there? Maybe the Secretary of State can say something about that. We are now in the third winter in a row again with the pressing problem that it is cold, and that people are still being caught in tents. What can be done about this from a humanitarian point of view, regardless of possible relocation plans? How can we ensure that the refugees who are in the European Union face a more humane reception? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In particular, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his detailed reply, with a tranquillity which is admirable on this troubled dossier. In addition to these friendly initial words, I also have some critical comments. I think the Secretary of State is too laconical when it comes to the possible undesirable passage of the Marrakesh Pact into our national legal order. I also think it is a permanent sign that many countries, including EU countries, have not signed the pact, not because they felt it was too non-binding, but because they feared consequences that they simply did not want. I find such a murmur around the passage of such a pact to be very unsatisfactory, especially with regard to these sensitive issues. I also believe that we should avoid this kind of noise for the future as much as possible, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. The President shall: Mr Diederik van Dijk and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the public debate on the Marrakesh Migration Pact has revealed a deeper discussion on the transmission of various types of international legal sources and international agreements (including treaties, pacts, customary law and decisions of international organisations) within the national legal order;]] [[calls on the Government to seek advice from the Commission on international law issues, CAVV, on how the various sources of international law and international agreements have their precise effect in the national legal order, and how the coordination between the departments concerned and the Parliament on the establishment, ratification and implementation of international legal sources and international agreements can be optimally developed, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u72	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u73	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State right now. Do you have an opportunity to answer directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u74	A few minutes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u75	Five minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting until 4:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u76	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u77	Thank you, Mr President. There were two questions left from the first term. A new post for Somalia is foreseen at the end of March 2019. Mrs Strik had asked about the procedure around the front, the front light. It's true that three-quarters of those four weeks have to fall outside of a recess. The minimum period for the internet consultation is four weeks. It runs at the same time as the front. A period of four weeks shall apply to the placing in the Official Journal of the European Communities. I would like to answer the question as to whether it can no longer be stopped. If you or the House of Representatives ask me not to take irreversible steps until the draft decision has been discussed with me, then it is very obvious that I will respond to that. That is what I wanted to say about the procedure. I just wanted to try to answer the other questions quickly in the order in which they were asked. Mr Van Hattem asked: if so many countries do not support it, is there really no effect? I have dealt with this in detail in the first period, but for us it does not change the position of the cabinet on this, given everything about legal non-bindingness in the compact itself. Mr Van Hattem also asked me what the significance of the input of the 27 EU Member States is. I believe that he is referring to the contribution made by the EU Member States to the implementation of the Pact. That is no more and less than that in the course of that process, first from the EU and later from the remaining 27 Member States, we have determined what would be good for us if it were in that pact, including the fact that it is legally non-binding and many elements that are based on migration policy as we have in Europe in the GEAS. That's the input. It is to the satisfaction of the person who provided the input, namely the Member State of Austria, that it entered into the Pact. The EU's or the 27 EU Member States' involvement will then also stop. It is then up to each country as a member of the UN to decide on the corresponding resolution. He asked: if it is transposed into EU policies, can it be imposed by qualified majority? It's kind of like-dan reasoning. If the EU decided to include elements of the Pact in proposals for the Common European Asylum System, the Common European Asylum System would be decided by qualified majority. But I'm just trying to get ahead of it with the conclusion of "you see, the EU is going to introduce that global compact." I don't think so. Just think of the number of EU countries that will not vote for the compact. In the end, however, this is an issue, such as everything in asylum and migration policy, on which we in the EU decide by qualified majority and where Member States sit at the table and understand themselves in their parliament. I believe that I have dealt with the international asylum policy of the future as envisaged in the text of the coalition agreement. When you talk about it like that, there is also international asylum policy of the past. It has been based on the UN Refugee Convention and the ECHR since the 1950s. If you look at the future, I think it is real to assume that asylum policy will continue to be determined not only at national level, but also at European level, for example, given that we have a Schengen area. This is without prejudice to the fact that we, as a Member State, are of course in favour of the Netherlands and that, as far as we are concerned, it does not necessarily have to be inspired by the principles in the compact, if only because it is compact and all 23 of its objectives, as I pointed out in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u78	Mr. Van Hattem, briefly. One interruption, because I am very close in time and I hope the Secretary of State will be ready at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u79	The Secretary of State does not exclude the fact that the global compact can contribute to shaping international asylum policy. It can also be imposed by qualified majority through the EU, as has just been outlined. We must therefore have the fear that the Netherlands will be confronted with the impact of this global compact. Can the Secretary of State insist that this cannot be imposed on the Netherlands in any way? Because there are certainly ways along which this can happen. So it is not a non-binding system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u80	I just hinted at that in my answer. I was already a little afraid of this inverse reasoning. Let me say in every detail: no, the pact does not lead to that. The only thing that can happen is for the European Commission or the Presidency of the European Union to submit proposals to the Member States and I shall leave them in the middle of which they are inspired. I do not think that, given the short-term discussion in many EU Member States, this will be inspired by the global compact, at least I do not think it is real that it should be decided by majority or qualified majority. The provision 'taking effective steps' requested by Mr Van Hattem is entirely in the context I outlined in the first term. Those Member States that want to work with these 23 objectives, which the Netherlands does not have to do because we comply with; I stand by that and could work with it, but it is within the context of the general principles of legal non-bindingness and the sovereignty of Member States to shape their own migration policies. In the letter I sent to your Chamber yesterday, there is a sentence about what it would do when a UN resolution was adopted unanimously. That is, by its very nature, speculative in character. It also remains a bit of a guess what the effect could be, as has already been decided in that sense. At the same time, I note that from the outset there was no mention of this global compact. I agree to provide your Chamber with a complete overview of what the input has been from the various networks and organisations. The letter sent by the UN at its request to Finland and Switzerland is procedural in nature. It actually tells us how, after the draft text has been adopted in Marrakesh, it continues towards a vote in the UN. This letter confirms once again the things I said in the first term, namely that it is up to Member States themselves to decide whether and how they are going to implement the Pact and that it is non-binding. So it's actually a kind of extra guarantee, free of charge. That is the answer to those who say that expulsions should not be allowed from tomorrow. That is not what we read in the pact. It doesn't say that. So that might be wishful thinking, but it's not reality. If I understand correctly, the school in Maarheeze is concerned with the choice of the local school board to organise education for a number of asylum children in a kind of annexation of an existing school rather than in a separate school on the premises of the asylum centre itself. This choice would have been made by the school board both on the grounds of efficiency and quality. I don't think it's up to me to go into that, but it doesn't sound unwise when you would otherwise have two too small schools. It is a choice that is made by the school board on the basis of local conditions and that occurs in many places in the Netherlands. In one place it is organized separately at the asylum seekers centre if there are enough children there. In other places, children are simply accommodated in a local primary or secondary school.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u81	Short, Mr. Van Hattem. You have one more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u82	I'm getting a lot of reactions from Brabant to what's going on there. There really are concerns with those parents. It's not like that school couldn't survive if it didn't. It's about a school dome. It is not a local school board that has decided to do so. That dome has the efficiency considerations and not the school itself. There is now a risk that there will be a shortage of premises and so on at the expense of their own pupils. You're going to say that you're discussing azc education with the ministry of OCW. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take steps to prevent this from happening at the expense of education in the village of Maarheeze? Can he prevent education from getting into trouble because if necessary an azc school should be added to the school?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u83	There are many assumptions in this question which I do not think are automatically true. I think it is up to every school board to provide good education for every child who is entitled to it. If this is not the case, then there is also an educational inspection which supervises it. Again, we know both models in different parts of the Netherlands. It is organized on the ground in one asylum-seekers' centre and is organised in another place in one of the local educational institutions. Both go well. I particularly think it is a matter of how this is arranged locally. I do not think that it would be appropriate if we were to bring this up from The Hague with us. Let me take Mr Overbeek's question straight away. He asked, albeit with a different approach, how interdepartmental coordination is taking place around the interests of the child. The Ministry in charge will be examined on a subject-by-issue basis. Where the interdepartmental is, we really do know where to find each other. From cross-departmental issues in which the importance of the child is essential, I dare say that there is sufficient coordination between the ministries concerned because every department concerned is very aware of this. Mr Overbeek considered the approach to migration from Europe to be one-sided. I simply note that, unlike many other countries in the world, we meet all the objectives. But we want to help countries that also want to go down that road. I think that is a great effort too. As part of the refugee pact, I said that reception in the region is something we very much want. Mr Overbeek turned that around and asked: what should we do ourselves? First of all, I would like to say that we have dealt with what is in the Pact for many years now. We should not be ashamed of that. We are then doing a great deal to enable reception in the region, particularly in terms of financial provision on the ground. That is also the type of cooperation envisaged there. Then where SZW is concerned. Mr Overbeek said that the information is often anecdotal. I do not think we should have the debate on this right away, but I am open to signals. The inspection SZW is also open to it. It is further strengthened, including financially, in order to be able to pick up and investigate signs of labour exploitation earlier. Mr Overbeek has also asked whether some research on this should be done, for example, by the WODC. I would just like to make a few points, first of all, by waiting for the SZW Minister's response to Mr Overbeek's questions. If questions remain, the Minister of SZW could first discuss them. But then we might also be able to better align where the need for research is or remains or what research question is there. I would not like to go into that right now. That does not seem to me to be the case at the moment, but it may well be that once the letter is there, we can continue to fill it out. Then there are Mrs. Strik's questions. I have already discussed in detail what we intend to do with amending legal aid. On the basis of Mrs Strik's comments in the second term, I note that we do not yet fully agree on this. Maybe I could leave it at that for the sake of time. We are still going to talk about the proposal in front of us. I will also comment on the motion later. I shall do the same in the motion for a resolution on the Venezuelan refugees, because all the elements of Mrs Strik's speech find a place in the motion as well. The CAT Committee itself provides a broad deadline for responding to the recommendations. Of course, the cabinet will respond to that. I admit that we will inform your Chamber about this. In addition, the recommendations concerning the overseas parts of the Kingdom are still primarily those countries which are the first to take action. In any case, I would like to give them this opportunity, as we have divided the tasks and responsibilities within the Kingdom. Mrs Strik asked whether it is an obstacle to what one considers to be a safe country of origin if you go into procedure in Greece. In particular, with regard to Syrians, for example, the EU-Turkey Declaration also agreed on this. Of course, people from other countries are also coming to Greece. This is precisely why it is of the first importance that Greece itself, like all other countries in the EU, has a well-functioning asylum procedure which is also able to give an opinion, for example, on someone from Afghanistan who enters the procedure in Greece. We have also provided a great deal of assistance in this area this year. Employees of the Greek asylum service, including the new director, have been visiting the Netherlands many times to gain knowledge here. We've offered their expertise on how to shape that asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u84	One brief interruption, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u85	Perhaps for the sake of clarity, I am not concerned with the substantive examination of the asylum applications, but rather with the application of the concept of safe third countries, which is the assumption of the EU-Turkey deal. In terms of content, this may lead to problems. In any case, it has led to many procedures, up to the Greek Council of State. It may also lead to possible problems of return to Turkey. So it is not so much about the assessment of the country of origin as about the assessment of Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u86	I also recognize this aspect, but also the other part of my answer applies in the first term: the numbers of influxes may be high in Greece, but these are similar to the influxes in Belgium, the Netherlands and some Scandinavian countries. There it is again the primary responsibility of Greece itself to have a definitive asylum system, as other countries in Europe do. Greece has not had that in years and has been reluctant to set it up in recent years. Then there is the other aspect: what can be done from a humanitarian point of view? My appeal to both the European Commission and my Greek colleague has been repeated time and time again to ensure that the resources available, which have not yet been used, are also used more quickly for improved reception conditions. I've been assured recently that the conversation is ongoing. In particular, I have called on the European Commission to make an extra effort in this regard. But it's up to them to answer that first. Since Mr Van Dijk's input is reflected in the motion, I would also like to deal with it on the basis of the motion. I'm gonna have to put the motions in the right order. I shall begin with the two motions tabled by Mr Van Hattem, those on letters G and H, both proposing to reject the compact for migration and the compact for refugees. For the sake of clarity, I would advise against these motions, on the basis of the argument I made in the first and second periods. Then Mrs Strik's motion to letter I, which deals with legal aid. I have already indicated that, in my opinion, the consequences for the judiciary are limited, even if only because a very large number of people who are rejected appealed before 2010 and also after 2010. I do not think that will be any different in the future either. We believe that the impact on the IND is now sufficiently detailed to take the step towards the decision in consultation and in anticipation. Also for the follow-up process, the evaluation, we think we have enough. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Then the motion-Strike on letter J, which is about decent reception and asylum procedures within the Kingdom. This motion calls for consultation with the Caribbean countries. That is exactly what we have already done this year. It is precisely because at the beginning of the year the question came from Curaçao whether they could receive funding for detention capacity that we did not think it was enough and since spring we have been on our initiative in consultation with the Caribbean Netherlands, in particular with Aruba and Curaçao, to provide more help and assistance. We've made offers for experts from the IND. They've been there. We're still in the middle of this meeting. There have been delegations from the countries here in the Netherlands. The request for assistance may also be submitted in a form-free manner. Nor have we been so strict as to say that we would only deal with a specific aid question. We have all offered it generously, but within the division of responsibility that says that the governments of Curaçao and Aruba must eventually accept it. Luckily, that's what's gonna happen. The consultations are in full swing. I don't know exactly what the habit of this house is, but across the street I learned that if a motion is actually already in progress and unnecessary in that sense, I have to discourage it. That is why I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u87	Very briefly, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u88	The Secretary of State emphasizes the consultation, but the motion calls for more. The motion calls for adequate assistance, in consultation with the Caribbean countries, to ensure that human rights violations are prevented. On the contrary, I would stress that adequate assistance is needed. In that respect, the motion may not be entirely superfluous. It is a desire shared by the Secretary of State to prevent these human rights violations from continuing. Perhaps he can still give some support to the motion in that regard, and in the spirit of Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u89	For the sake of shortness, I would like to stress the first part of the operative part. But, of course, this is what the consultation is all about. It is based on a good procedure there, and on all the knowledge and expertise that the countries need to do so. In my first term, I have also indicated that we have already pointed out, in the field of Article 3 of the ECHR procedure, that there is a need to improve it. So that's what this whole meeting is all about. I would therefore like to maintain the opinion I have given on this motion as such. Finally, Mr Van Dijk's motion. I have seen that the part that I did not recognize was deleted, and also the Commission's opinion on international law issues. At the same time, I still believe that there is a problem here that is more concerned with treaties than with a pact like this, which is ultimately a resolution in the UN. For this reason, the cabinet does not have the first preference for this opinion. That's why I advise against this motion, but you're already tasting it a little bit. Mrs. Strik was just talking about the Christmas spirit. If this dissuade motion would be adopted...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u90	Wouldn't that wake you up, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u91	No, no. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u93	I have come to deal with this bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that at the end of the sitting we vote on the bill, including the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-25.u94	I shall suspend the meeting pending the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
