ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal Declaration that there is reason to consider a proposal to amend the Constitution to include a general provision (34516).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Madam President. It is the second time in two weeks that I have been allowed to debate a revision of the Constitution with you in this Chamber. That's kind of special, isn't it? Last week it was about including the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. Today we are discussing the proposal to introduce a general provision. Its text, which has just been discussed in detail, reads: 'The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law'. Before I go on to explain the substance of the proposal and, of course, to answer the questions, I would like to take the floor again today to say that the Constitution is important to this cabinet. In the coalition agreement, the word "Constitution" occurs nine times. So it's more than a valuable reference source. It is also important to indicate how the cabinet looks at the Constitution. The coalition agreement says: "Our Constitution is not a symbolic relic of the past, but a sign of pride, freedoms, rights and duties belonging to the Netherlands, the Netherlands and the democratic rule of law. The Constitution deserves to be maintained and published to the Dutch and newcomers." That's what the coalition agreement says. This is in line with the idea, which, of course, was raised a long time ago by Mr Engels' motion to include a general provision in the Constitution. The proposal before us is to include this general provision at the beginning of the Constitution, prior to Article 1. The proposal was adopted by 106 votes in the House of Representatives. When you hear the discussions, it is almost remarkable that such a provision is no longer in place. The fundamental principles of our constitutional system must not be overlooked in the Constitution. As has been said, the proposal is intended to give effect to the motion for a resolution of the First Chamber in which the government was asked to prepare a proposal for a general provision. That motion dates back to 2012. Since then, government and Chambers in different configurations have had an exchange of views on this proposal. The history of this has just been remembered by many of you. The Constitutional Commission, which we also discussed last week, is, of course, part of that. I will not repeat all this; the speakers have actually done so today. But the result is there. That is the most important thing for today. The aim of this proposal is threefold. Firstly, it seeks to emphasise the normality of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, secondly, to better reflect the principle that the Constitution is the primary legal constitutional document of the state system and should express its essentials, and thirdly, the guarantee function of the Constitution. The function and added value of this provision lie in the explication of these principles and of the guarantee function of the Constitution. The result, including in the legal sense, is that the content of the Constitution and thus our legal system must be in line with the principles underlying our constitutional system of law. These principles allow for different ways of working on them. It is therefore not necessary to amend the Constitution. Today, among others, the groups of the PVV, GroenLinks, the CDA and the VVD asked questions about the legal status and the added value of the general provision. I would like to be the first to discuss this. The legal status of the general provision is similar to that of the other provisions of the Constitution. It should then be revised in accordance with Article 137 of the Constitution. The increased review procedure gives the general provision its status of higher duty to a significant extent. In response to questions from the Christian Union, I would like to emphasise that the so-called "institutional higher regulation" has not been chosen. Some countries do, but that would be contrary to our constitutional history and our system, which is already very difficult for a constitutional change: two readings, and two thirds in the second reading. The added value lies in the explicitation of the notions of fundamental rights and democratic rule of law and of the guarantee function of the Constitution. I just said that. The legal consequence of this is that the content of the Constitution, and thus our constitutional system, must be in line with those principles which underpin our legal system. This contributes, albeit to a small extent, to the fact that I have heard Members say 'to strengthen fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law'. In that sense, you could say that it places a lower limit on the deconstitutionalisation of certain matters. The general provision thus increases the burden of proof for the repeal or amendment of such provisions, as also raised by the Council of State, but also for the codification of new issues. Such operation shall not be deemed to be present in the absence of such codification. Mrs Duthler of the VVD Group asked about its significance. The aim is to say that the burden of proof is not justified in order to explain why certain matters are not enshrined in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u4	What you are saying about the lower limit and the codification is actually in the explanatory statement with so many words. The Council of State also points that out. Could you make that a little more concrete? Do you have examples of which you say: with this general provision a certain lower limit could no longer be broken where it can now be broken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u5	It is theory, but let us say: if there were any proposals to repeal Article 1 of the Constitution, I think you can invoke the general provision in your speech to say that this is not the case. Of course, I can come up with more theoretical examples. At the moment, there are no such proposals from the Chamber or the Cabinet. But you have to think of these relatively far-reaching proposals, which are not entirely unthinkable, and this general provision can then play a role as a touchstone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u6	That is not exactly a lower limit, if you refer directly to Article 1. If that is the example, you could theoretically also change the general provision and Article 1 in one movement. Isn't that an additional argument, if you mention this example, to say that we are still making a somewhat heavier review or an extra heavy procedure associated with that general provision? Otherwise, you might as well put it all aside at once. Again, we are talking about theory here, but when it comes to determining the weight of different expressions that are in it, you would give it a higher specific weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u7	We can't have a weighted revision procedure right now. We have a heavy review procedure in Article 137 of the Constitution and we do not have a tradition of further strengthening for certain parts. I know that is the case in other countries. I have just argued that I do not think it fits in with our constitutional tradition, but I also do not think it is necessary because the weighted procedure that is there is also quite heavy. The purpose, function and added value of the general provision have also been decisive for its character, but also for its formulation. As far as character is concerned, a general provision with a business character, rather than a preamble, has been chosen by some here argued with a cultural historical character. In reply to the question from the Christian Union and the SGP, for example, I would like to say a few words about why a preamble has not been chosen. The most important thing is that the general provision is legally binding. In addition, a general provision does not seek merely to be declaratory or to call upon the people or otherwise to be evocative, whereas a preamble is intended to do so. Finally, the English motion asked for a proposal for a general provision rather than a preamble, in addition to the opinion of the Constitution Committee. That is why, in the light of the questions put by Mr Engels, Mr Sini, Mr Schalk, who is now walking to the interrupting microphone, and others, it is important that the constitutionalist be chosen as a standard address. It is, after all, the Constitution that guarantees it, in accordance with its legal and constitutional function. Here's a point, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u8	Let me return to what the Minister has just said and also in the light of the codification she was talking about. In the end, does it not mean to say that there has been some sort of first-class clause, which brings the fundamental rights that have been appointed to a sort of second position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u9	No. What I have argued is that it is common, even when you look at other countries, that if you have a general provision in the Constitution, which precedes the articles of the Constitution. I also believe that none of us are ready to renumber the Constitution in order to move Article 1. But you don't have to. I think a general provision is very well in place there. However, I have also argued that this general provision is legally binding, as the rest of the Constitution is. Since it is a general provision in advance, I think that is appropriate to the nature of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u10	Of course, I accept the Minister's response. I would just like to say that Article 1 is not, of course, Article 1 because it is the most important article or something. That is sometimes thought, but it wouldn't be weird at all if that article had a different song in that sense, in terms of importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u11	I totally agree with you on that. The order doesn't mean it's one over the other. However, it is a fact that in the Netherlands we have a very old Constitution, in which you attach a certain value to the tradition of that Constitution. I would just like to point out that it is not necessary, because it is customary to put a general provision first, without further adjusting the numbering, with which the article has a kind of umbrella function over the rest. But I agree with Mr Schalk that the numbering in the Constitution is not a priority order, although of course I think that Article 1 is a good article. I would very much like to continue my speech, Mr President. I would have stayed with the Constitutionalist as a standard address. Several questions have been asked about this. It is, after all, the Constitution that guarantees it, in accordance with its legal and constitutional function. There is also a relative limitation in this. For example, if the government were chosen as a standard address, the proposal had failed to achieve the objective of having the Constitution as the primary legal constitutional document of the state system, expressing its essentials. Could the wording have been different? Well, a lot has already been exchanged about that, even in the previous period, between my predecessor and this Chamber and the House of Representatives. The written procedure shows that different variants and options have been addressed. The government did indeed initially have a different proposal. The government had initially proposed to designate the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights separately because of the relevant distinction between the various constitutional concepts, which would also have been linked to international wordings. However, I think that, with the wording chosen in the amendment of the House of Representatives, it remains a sober wording, which in its entirety continues to express what was initially formulated by the government in three different principles. Of course you can always talk about formulations, but with this wording it is briefly expressed what the intention is. There were also some questions about incorporating fundamental rights into the general provision. I thought Mr Engels asked for it himself, and Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mr Schalk. I have seen Mr Engels' contribution as support for a short and pointy wording and for a good relationship between the concepts of the rule of law and fundamental rights. For I wholeheartedly agree with Members that fundamental rights are part of the definition of the rule of law. With the explicit inclusion of fundamental rights in the general provision, the provision is in line with both the international legal order and different national legal systems. The sober and brief wording allows for all kinds of fundamental rights, national and international, classic and social, in any category.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u12	Fundamental rights are part of the rule of law and are already fully guaranteed in international treaties and our own Constitution. It is indeed a good thing to say that this provision is in line with those conventions. But would it not have been much nicer to include a provision such as the principle of legality, which adds more value to the Constitution because it is not yet explicitly codified and in many treaties only implicitly or not at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u13	I shall now turn to the principle of legality that Mrs Van Bijsterveld has asked for. Perhaps I could continue with the wording and the fundamental rights that are contained in it? This is done in reverse order: fundamental rights are paramount and democracy and the rule of law are integrated into the concept of the democratic rule of law. There's nothing against that. That doesn't fundamentally change anything. The wording is concise and consistent with the sober nature. The reversal of the order fits nicely with the chapters. We were just talking about the order in the Constitution. There is now a connection to the order in those chapters. The concept of the "democratic rule of law" is also in line with what the State Constitution Committee wrote in 2010 to the English motion, the opinion of the Human Rights College and the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State. All in all, the cabinet also considers the proposed variant suitable for achieving the stated purpose, function and added value of the provision. It has also been asked whether this is a normative strengthening of the core principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. If it's a miracle cure, you could almost ask. Of course it's not. As a constitutionalist, we would give rise to an overstretched expectation. The general provision must be understood in the light of its purpose, meaning and function, as I have just explained. At least as important for the normative strengthening of the core principles are other instruments and actors, such as the role of education in our society, awareness and education, very broad. In this context, I also refer to what is included in the government agreement, namely the intention to ensure that all pupils in the Netherlands visit parliament during their school time. That is essential as far as I am concerned. The achievements of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are not self-evident. The general provision underlines the importance of their preservation. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to pass on the remaining questions in the order of the speakers. I have already included some of them in the general introduction. The PVV Group pointed out that the bill was in line with European and international treaties and decisions. That's right. These rules are applicable in the Netherlands. The Dutch legal order is a layered legal order. Its standards have not only a national but also a European and international origin. International and European law operates directly. Article 90 of the Constitution obliges the government to promote the international legal order. Moreover, the explanatory memorandum of the legislative proposal also states that the proposal has been inspired by the constitutions of other countries. In this context, specific reference has been made to Norway and Finland. The PVV group also informed whether the general provision creates an additional barrier to new legislation that would run counter to the democratic rule of law. In that connection, he mentioned the Sharia. There are many mechanisms to prevent legislative proposals from being tabled or brought before the States-General who are at odds with the values of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. If they were to be tabled, there is always the debate in the States-General. Both at the preparatory stage and in the debates, the general provision will form part of the debate and debate. In this respect, it is indeed an increase in the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u14	It is true that European and international treaties work through, but that does not mean that you should also use them as a source of inspiration or principle to underpin this general provision. That has been a very explicit choice in the drafting of this bill. Among other things, reference has been made to the Council of Europe. As far as I am concerned, the Council of Europe is not exactly an institution that is exemplary in terms of credibility and principles. So why is that chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u15	I think that Mr Van Hattem and I differ. Again, the Dutch legal order is also part of the international legal order. We are part of international agreements, treaties and institutions, also with direct effect. I do not think it is so crazy, but I think it is quite normal that we have involved this international and European context in the design of this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Lintmeijer has just repeated his question by interrupting. He asked: are there any examples of what could not be done on the basis of this new general provision? I have just mentioned an example that is quite drastic; I admit that immediately. It could also be about proposals to delete important fundamental rights. But once again, as I have just said, the deletion of Article 1, the restriction of freedom of expression or the restriction of the right to vote are all very far-reaching proposals which, of course, we are not expecting here one-two-three. However, you can never look into the future. Nevertheless, the general provision will then be able to fulfil an important function. Mr Sini of the Labour Party wants to broaden it a bit. He pointed out human dignity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u16	However, Mr President, also because it is in line with a question I asked and the answer that the Minister just gave in response to the contribution of GroenLinks. The Minister gives very far-reaching examples of fundamental rights that could be deleted. This general provision would then have a guarantee function. But when such far-reaching proposals are considered, will someone or the government always write in the initiative law that this general provision is being abandoned? There's no light left between that or an extra threshold, is there? I don't see how that security function works. Could the Minister be more precise about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u17	The question seems to be a bit clinging to two thoughts. One: is it sufficient guarantee? And two: in order for it to be sufficiently protective, would you have to have a weighted procedure, so that this is more emphatically a part of it and more difficult to change than other parts? As far as that second part is concerned, I have just said that the amendment procedure is already quite difficult. As regards the first part of the question, we have just said that it is not a panacea, but it increases the burden of proof, because the general provision will also be examined. The general provision is a kind of umbrella over the Constitution. This means that the question will initially be: does it relate well to that? The same can then be argued for the elements of the Constitution and its elaboration, such as fundamental rights or otherwise. So it is not that it would be easier without it, but the opposite can be explained, namely that it is even more difficult. That's what I'm telling you here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u18	But that does not alter my objection that in one bill you can adapt both with the same methodology and the same increase. If someone wants something, for example the abolition of Article 1 or any other article, he will always look at that general provision and go through the same procedure at once. That is why I am not getting any of the guarantees that this Constitution guarantees exactly for extra security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u19	That would be even more disastrous, because then you would not only want to amend a part of the Constitution, but also take the general provision with the same heavy procedure at once. That means that if that proposal were to reach the States-General, others in that debate would have to argue that it is extremely far-reaching, as I said earlier. But I agree with you: as long as Article 137 is as it says, you should also amend the Constitution for that purpose, there is no other option than the procedure as we know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u20	I am also looking for the concrete implementation of this guarantee function. My group would be on the opposite side of the examples mentioned. Perhaps there are also less far-reaching examples. I cannot imagine that this Chamber and the House of Representatives should need such a general provision in order to examine such an amendment in the light of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. I am still looking for the concrete implementation of that guarantee function. Then why would we need such a general provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u21	The examples that have just passed are also difficult to imagine; I admit that immediately. I do not know whether the most important thing of the general provision is to prevent very concrete changes, but perhaps Mr Engels himself would like to say something about this. The general provision of course also aims to express what the Netherlands is. The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law in which we respect fundamental rights, and that is what is ready to be introduced in all its simplicity and sobriety. It has a function in itself. The guarantee function that has just been described is not absolute, but a sort of additional hurdle to be taken in case that kind of proposal would arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u22	I am also still looking for the guarantee function that this provision will provide over and above the guarantee function that provisions already offer because of the simple fact that they are in the Constitution. I'd like to get a little extra grip on that. You have tried to answer these questions in response to questions from Mr Bikker and Mr Duthler, but I am still not getting a handle on them. We can talk about very extreme examples, for example, the abolition of an x-number of provisions of fundamental rights. Then, of course, the question arises: if that is the issue, then there is no point in the general provision, is there? I shall try to put forward a slightly less extreme example. During the previous general constitutional review, we removed a very large part of the provisions on the judiciary from the Constitution and entrusted to the ordinary legislator. Does the provision now being proposed provide a guarantee that such provisions on the judiciary will simply remain in the Constitution, or not at all? For these extreme examples, a is that we do not see them happening and b is that no additional guarantee can be expected. Can we find that additional guarantee on these issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u23	I do not, of course, know the specific legal history of the example you mention, but I do think that in general terms constitutional changes and de-constitutionalisation are still possible. I can very well imagine that there could also be a difference of opinion. While one invokes the general provision, the other will argue that the general provision does not prevent that constitutional amendment. As far as I am concerned, it is not absolute. Hence perhaps these extreme examples, because the more extreme the example, the more absolute the application of the general provision may become.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u24	As a result, a slightly less extreme example. It is not in the Constitution, but take the withdrawal of a democratic instrument through ordinary legislation. Would a general provision then lead to a different consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u25	Well, tonight I have another debate in another room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u26	The example is not entirely random either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u27	I think you're referring to that. This is, of course, only the case when the Constitution is amended and not when a law is amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u28	An interesting question is, of course, whether such a general provision in the Constitution also has a further testative, normative, legitimising framework when it comes to amendments to other legislation affecting it, for example, when removing an instrument that could promote direct democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u29	This is actually also an example where you notice that a certain interpretation could be given to it. I would argue that this is due to the Constitution. The standard address is also the constitutionalist. The above-mentioned example in this case, I shall make it quite clear: the consultative referendum on human rights is not part of our Constitution. Therefore, if this general provision had already been part of the Constitution, I do not think that would make any difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u30	Mr President, at the latest. It would be justified for you to say that a general provision in the Constitution also monitors the way normal legislation is put in place. Does the Minister in general share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u31	I have just said that the standard address of this general provision is the constitution. You can imagine that there will be some legislation based on the Constitution and that there will be some kind of indirect link. But once again, I do not see in the wording and in the inclusion of this general provision the limitation that some would read in it when it comes to deconstitutionalisation of matters on the one hand and ordinary legislation that lies with the legislator and not with the constitutionalist on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u32	I'm gonna hook up to that. I had already asked this question in my first term: how does this general provision protect the democratic legislative process in cases such as the repeal of the Law on the Consultative referendum, which departs from the democratic legislative process and, at one time, maintains different standards than is normally the case? Isn't that contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u33	The repeal of the Law on the Consultative referendum is not contrary to the Constitution. After all, it is not part of the Constitution. It is a law and the legislator can withdraw it if he so wishes. In this respect, it can therefore follow the current wording of the Constitution and, according to the redrafting of the Constitution, if this general provision were to be incorporated after second reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u34	That wasn't my question either. My question was about the democratic legislative process in which different procedures are used than is normally the case. Does a general provision then provide protection to ensure the democratic legislative process?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u35	Mr. English, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u36	Yes, just for the order of the debate, in order to be able to follow what the colleague means. What procedural rules in the Constitution on the quality and care of the legislative process would be at stake here? Suppose there is a provision guaranteeing the democratic rule of law, what provisions are you referring to? What constitutional provisions do we then conflict with? I'd like you to mention them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u37	I've got it all... I mean, with the president's approval...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u38	Yeah, I'd be serious about that, too. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to reply to Mr Engels' question. I am not concerned about specific constitutional provisions; I am concerned about whether such a general provision, if it is incorporated, protects the democratic legislative process. I am not referring to specific articles of the Constitution, but only to that general provision. Does that offer protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u40	I see that you want to speak, Mr Engels, but I find it rather difficult to have a discussion between Mr Van Hattem and Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u41	Well, it's important that we follow closely...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u42	I understand that, but otherwise you will have to try it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u43	But I just filled it in in one minute, so I'm not gonna get very far with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u44	No, two. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u45	Oh, two. But you want to shut me up, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u46	No, I don't want to shut up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u47	No, but it's okay. That's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u48	No, but I do not want an endless debate between Mr Van Hattem and Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u49	I'm gonna sit down, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u50	Okay. Go ahead, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u51	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. It is ultimately about the character of the democratic rule of law. The aim is to ensure that this is done. That is what that general provision says, I say in response to Mr Engels. Freedom of expression should also be guaranteed, including for a senator who wants to be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. I'll...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u53	I do not know whether Mrs Bikker would like to say anything afterwards or whether she would like to ask a separate question. The latter is the case. I shall now give the floor to the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u54	The democratic rule of law is mentioned in the general provision and is also protected by the Constitution as such. That is and will remain the case, but the legislator can adapt, modify, propose and re-establish certain parts of it without affecting the democratic rule of law or democracy as originally formulated by the cabinet. On the contrary, sometimes maintenance is needed and sometimes reinforcement is needed. I understand very well that Mr Van Hattem is giving a certain explanation, but that must be supported by the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u55	I shall return to Mr Lintmeijer's questions for a moment. The Minister says that this is an additional guarantee, especially in the case of constitutional changes, but my group has always understood that this provision is also a guarantee for the legislator in a formal sense. We have all sworn or promised to the Constitution here. In that respect, I believe that this provision has added value. My quest is to what extent this applies to the constitutional provisions. I only heard the Minister focus on the Constitution. Have I understood her correctly that the formal legislator is ultimately the standard addressee of this provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u56	You could say that the standard address is the constitutionalist, where you could read "ground" between hooks. If that's a clearer answer, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u57	Mr Van Hattem once again on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u58	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The point is that it is a question of guaranteeing the democratic rule of law. I have just heard in the Minister's reply that the intention is to guarantee the democratic rule of law, but that, if necessary, derogations can be made and so on. What is the practical effect of this general provision? What does this really add? As the Minister explains, there is so much room for manoeuvre in this and its interpretation is so broad that it is actually a dead letter in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u59	It is a general provision, as I have just argued. It is not an article in the Constitution, but a general provision that precedes all the other articles contained in the Constitution. It is a general provision that reflects two essential aspects of the Constitution and of our society, namely that we are a democratic rule of law and that we have fundamental rights in this country. I think this is an essential addition, even if you cannot necessarily attach concrete measures to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u60	Mrs. Van Bijsterveld. This seems to me to be the last interruption on this point at the moment, so that the Minister can proceed with her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u61	I think it's important to clarify this. So far, the Minister has always said that the Constitutionalist is the only standard addressee and that the provision explicitly does not address the legislator. Now I hear the Minister say that we can also put the word 'ground' in brackets because it is addressed to the legislator. My question is whether the provision is now addressed exclusively to the Constitutionalist or to the Constitutionalist and the ordinary legislator. This is essential for the answer to a number of questions that have been asked here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u62	It is very good that Mrs Van Bijsterveld asks about this. The standard address is primarily the constitutionalist. It will perform the interpretative function in the development of new ground legislation. However, when preparing new legislation, the legislator will also have to ensure that the guarantee function of the Constitution is respected, for example as regards respect for fundamental rights. Finally, I would like to refer to Article 120 of the Treaty, which the judge can also play some role in the application and interpretation of the general provision. That's just not very obvious. Because it is asked from different sides, I attach myself to making it specific. First of all, it's the Constitutionalist. The legislator will have to take this into account. The judge will, of course, consult concrete provisions rather than the general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u63	I shall give the floor to Mrs Duthler and then to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u64	The words "primary" and "secondary" suggest that there is a hierarchy between the formal legislator and the constitutionalist. One of the assignments we have here in the Lower House and in the Upper House is that we review laws on their state of law. This explicitly includes fundamental rights. Does the Minister mean that there is indeed a hierarchy between these different roles or that they are equal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u65	No, I mean exactly what I said, namely that it is primarily aimed at the constitutionalist. I may have caused it myself by using the word 'primary', but I wanted to point out that the legislator can come into contact with it in the preparation of certain legislative processes. The guarantee function of the Constitution must be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u66	It doesn't make any sense to me at all. The Minister first established in the debate that the standard address is exclusive of the constitution. Now we hear that it is primarily the constitutionalist, but that we can also put "ground" in brackets, so that it is also the legislator. It would even be about the judge. I would venture to doubt that these are very exceptional cases. After all, constitutionality is, of course, also mentioned in case law when it is not a matter of formal legislation. My question is: is the provision now primarily addressed to the constitutionalist, but also to the legislator and also to the judge? If that is the case, I note that the Minister clearly distances himself from what is in the documents. So we are dealing here with a change of interpretation in relation to what has been laid down in the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u67	It is not my intention to distance myself from what is laid down in the documents. My intention is to answer your questions in line with what has been exchanged so far, including in response to written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u68	Mrs Van Bijsterveld, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u69	This is important. Now we hear that there has been no waiver of the documents, but does this mean that the Minister withdraws what she has just said about the primary standard address and secondary the legislator and the judge? Or doesn't she withdraw it? If not, there is a slight difference between the written reply and this treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u70	The most important thing seems to me to be that, between the first and the second term, I look for a moment to avoid confusion, because that is not the intention of the answer. Mr President, if you will allow me, I will continue with the answer. I think I would have stayed with Mr Sini of the Labour Party, who asked about human dignity. Human dignity is, of course, an important part of core values underlying our fundamental rights. The general provision does not seek to give effect to the three elements mentioned above, but rather to express the essentials and their principles. This can be understood in the term "fundamental rights." The wording of the Constitution has therefore been linked to the sober nature of the Constitution, which we have talked about a number of times, and to international wordings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u71	You mentioned the fact that the cabinet used the word "Constitution" a few times in its programme. It is also about the role of the Constitution in society. The addition of "government respects and guarantees human dignity" is really essential when it comes to the educational function you are aiming for with the Constitution. This gives you a clear tool in the hands of teachers and civil society organisations. Moreover, this can also increase normality. It is therefore a question of the government, which respects and guarantees human dignity. This can benefit the interaction between public authorities and public administrations on the one hand and citizens on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u72	I agree with Mr Sini that human dignity is an important core value in the Netherlands and that it is a core value which also underpins fundamental rights. I have heard him and others argue that it could have been formulated more exuberantly to explicate these things. I have also heard others argue that this is less in keeping with the austerity of our Constitution. In my view, we do not disagree on the content of the meaning of these fundamental rights. On the contrary. My point is that it is not necessary to develop this further because it would also require you to name all other important core values.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u73	I have a question on the same point. I can't quite follow. The Minister says that human dignity is actually a core value that underpins fundamental rights. I very much agree with her. Next, she says that it should not be in the general provision, whereas I think that the general provision is a kind of dome provision. Just as the concept of the "democratic rule of law" is developed throughout the Constitution, that general provision states that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. According to the same reasoning, the value of human dignity, which is the basis for guaranteeing the fundamental rights that exist later in the Constitution, should be mentioned in the general provision, right? That is also the line of the Thamassen report. In fact, I do not understand on the basis of what reasoning you wish to depart from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u74	The SP has also mentioned other examples. I thought you were talking about respect for family law and also about torture and inhumane treatment. Of course, we agree on the importance of this. However, the proposal expresses the principles of the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights and the guarantee function of the Constitution, which we have just discussed. I believe that this proposal has struck a balance and, as far as I am concerned, has also been found between strengthening the institutional, organisational and guarantee function of the Constitution on the one hand and the sober nature of the Constitution on the other. The provision allows for various specific interpretations in our constitutional system, including in terms of human dignity and the other examples that have just been mentioned. An unfinished wording also avoids the possibility of changing the relationship between the courts and the legislator. I hope that I have answered the question. Then I will return to answering the questions asked in the order in which I had just started. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats asked about the issue of the prohibition of review in Article 120. I believe that this question was also raised last week. I have just argued that the general provision has its own objective, added value and legal effect. We all know that lifting the prohibition of review in Article 120 would require a constitutional change. We also know that a proposal to that effect has been in the House of Representatives for a long time. I just remembered that last week. The government would not comment on its content until there was a continuation of the plenary session. In the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, the proposal should have been deemed to lapse, but it is ultimately up to the House of Representatives to decide whether to adopt this opinion. A number of questions have been asked about the principle of legality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u75	I would just like to mention the possibility of abolishing the ban on testing. That's gonna save you in the second term. We were just talking about the constitutional review and/or the ordinary legislator. Suppose the ban on testing is indeed abolished. Therefore, may the court review this general provision in the event that it comes through?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u76	I think we all learned once that we prefer not to answer questions like that, but I understand the question, of course. I have just argued that it is not reasonable for this amendment to be introduced, because the proposal is actually slowing down. If such a proposal were to be made and if the Constitution were to be amended on that point, what Mrs Duthler is asking might be topical. But I find it difficult to anticipate that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u77	I now understand that the answer to questions on constitutional review and the prohibition of scrutiny has been given in its entirety. If that is the case, I would ask the Minister to answer my question. My question completely ignored the Halsema Bill. You have my question ahead of you, I think. If it isn't, I'll ask him again. Then you can answer him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u78	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u79	Does the Minister not agree that the protection of fundamental rights in the Constitution would be better served if the prohibition of review were lifted, in particular as regards fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u80	Although you are proposing a completely different approach, and also with a different intention, I think you are also asking a 'what if' question. There's no proposal on my part right now. There's a proposal in the House of Representatives. We know what the Council of State's opinion is on this. I think I have to wait and see what the verdict of the House of Representatives is. But the Council of State says that the proposal should be deemed to lapse. That is not such a proposal. So I find it difficult to answer this as-dan question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u81	Mr Köhler, I think it would be wise not to go very far on this path. You may ask another follow-up question, but we are not talking about abolishing the prohibition of judicial review of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u82	No, that is not on the agenda, but my question is in line with the opinion of the Thomasses Committee, which clearly and comprehensively explains why it would also be good, by such a general provision, to lift the ban on the review of fundamental rights. My question was why that part of the proposal was not taken over by the government. The Minister may say that there is no proposal from other quarters, but that is not the question, at least that is not my question. My question is: why does the government come up with a proposal that does not draw any conclusions? That must have been considered by the government. It must have said, consciously, that we take on board the one sentence of the Thomasses committee, at least in another variant, but we do not want to see the result that they believe should be given. My question is: why doesn't the government want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u83	As I said at the beginning, this proposal has a very long history, which begins with the state committee of the past. Afterwards there was a lot of change between different Chambers and different Cabinets. That ultimately resulted in the adoption of the English motion. What the English motion intended is what is now in store. Everything else that the state committee argued at the time was then equipped with a reaction from the cabinet and was therefore put to an end. So this is the rest of it. We are now awaiting the results of a new state committee, the state committee parliamentary system, which will be there by the end of this year. They will undoubtedly give rise to discussions, proposals and reactions. Then I would very much like to come back here and talk about this, should this be a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u84	I shall return to Mrs Duthler's question. It was quickly dismissed as being a like-dan question and therefore out of order. It is not a question of whether or not the constitutional review is generally desirable. The question was: should that review be possible, does that mean that this provision can also be examined? That is not just a question of dance, but a fundamental question of getting a bit of a grip on the character, meaning and the legislative power of the provision that we will have to vote on later. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u85	Let me say, then, that I will return to this in the second term, just as I would like to take up the question that has just been asked about the guarantee function, after I have examined it in the light of the written reply and the documents underlying the debate. So I'd like to come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions, five or six to be exact. The groups of CDA and SP, and perhaps others, asked about the principle of legality. I believe that the proposed general provision and the sober regulation, as I have just said, are in line with what some parties have said here. This does not fit in with the separate mention of the principle of legality as a characteristic of the rule of law. Moreover, the inclusion of more partial elements of the democratic rule of law or of related constitutional principles quickly raises the question of demarcation criteria, and whether there are any other elements that deserve mention. In addition, there are many provisions in the Constitution from which the importance of the principle of legality can be derived. I refer to the provision on the legislative process, the restriction clauses on fundamental rights, and the principle of criminal legality contained in Article 16 of the Constitution. Mr Schalk of the SGP asked how the cabinet would like to implement the two criteria for constitutional change, which we also debated last week: urgent social need, so the need, and constitutional maturity. As pointed out last week, it is important that there is an urgent social need to adapt the Constitution. In view of the context of the amendment procedure, the institutional and organisational function and the guarantee function and the open and austere nature of the Constitution, amendments to the Constitution should mainly be aimed at resolving longer-term issues, including political, discussion and themes. Adjustments should result from developments that have already been confirmed in existing legislation or other decisions with sufficient support or are otherwise widely supported by society. Mr Schalk also asked why more elements were not mentioned in the general provision. I've already said something about it, but he asked specifically about it. He mentioned the element of constitutional monarchy. I just said it because of that short and sober. And as far as constitutional monarchy is concerned, it doesn't have to be. That doesn't change our provisions on this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u86	I would like to return to the point made on the subject of constitutional maturity. We did talk about that last week. You yourself indicated that this is about a social debate that slowly but surely translates into a wish or initiative for constitutional change. You referred to our common judgment. But now that I hear the discussion this afternoon, I wonder: is this constitutional maturity, if we are still thinking about, for example, whether it is the constitutionalist, the legislator or even the judge? Is that all ripened for your feeling?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u87	The process as such may also be part of that maturation. We now have the first reading. I very much appreciate that these kind of intrusive questions are being asked. I also think it is very good that this is part of the process. The question is whether it is your interpretation, namely that it raises doubts about the general provision as such. Or is it more like this? There are questions, and of course they have to be answered. On the one hand, there are views on perhaps a little more exuberance, a little more explication in the general provision, and on the other hand there is a desire to keep it short but powerful. That in itself does not mean anything to the general provision that is before us. But, of course, that's up to the Chamber. I would therefore say that the treatment as such is also part of the constitutional maturity of the proposals. Mr President, I have already said enough about constitutional monarchy. It fits right in here. We do not need to include separate texts on this issue. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union asked more generally for measures taken by the cabinet to strengthen democracy. She also asked what this proposal would mean for the strengthening of democracy. I do not think that this general provision directly leads to a more substantive concept of democracy, with all kinds of possible consequences. The provision is general, as has been said. It is not possible to derive from this a certain concept of "democracy." Not that, but the government agreement, to which I may refer again, says that the cabinet wants our democratic rule of law to be made more resilient against radical anti-democratic forces. Mrs Bikker also asked about this. On the basis of that agreement in the government agreement, the cabinet will come forward with proposals. That lies with my colleague from J and V; he is working on it. The First Chamber can also, of course, look forward to these proposals. I now come to the Constitution itself. I have already argued that the Constitution is a living document. The Constitution is now and then amended and updated. This is the second time in two weeks that we have talked about a constitutional change. Eleven proposals to amend the Constitution are now before the States General: four of the government and seven of the Chamber. One of them is this one, about the general provision. Last week we had the proposal to include the right to a fair trial. On 11 July last year, you unanimously agreed to the extension of the constitutional protection of communications. This proposal awaits the second reading. And there was a proposal to include a provision on the Dutch language. But it's being revoked. I have just said that we are awaiting the results of the examination of the Parliamentary System Committee and that I do not exclude that this leads to proposals affecting the Constitution. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my first term. I have promised that I will return to one point in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u88	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It went a little faster than I expected, so I haven't listed all the questions that were still open. I would like to mention the question of ensuring pluralism. If we are in a democratic process and there are certain electoral preferences, how is the minister going to guarantee them with this provision? Is there any idea? It is said that it guarantees pluralism, but there is really very little idea as to how that would be the case in practice. The same applies to freedom of expression. I asked a very specific question about the Minister's reading. She referred to this bill, but prior to that she made very specific statements about what she calls "populists." I'd like to know what the result of this bill is for populists, if it takes hold. What is the meaning of these words if this can be linked, given the Minister's speech? Finally. Examples of situations to which it would apply were just referred. I would like to give another example of what I am really worried about. Over the past 15 years, we have seen a process with a proposal for a European constitution. In the end, thanks to a referendum, it did not come into this form, but it ended up using a Lisbon Treaty. But that brings us to the next question. Can we prevent, by such a general provision, the transfer of our national right of self-determination, the national right of self-determination of the democratic rule of law which we, as the Netherlands, intend to be with this general provision, to a body which is essentially not a true democratic rule of law? The European Union, with unelected Commissioners and an unelected President, is not a true democratic rule of law. At least, as far as I am concerned, it does not satisfy the characteristics that should apply to it. Can the general provision prevent this transfer from taking place and we will soon be saddled with even more European constitutional requirements instead of our own national constitution? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u90	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u91	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Minister for her response. I asked her two things. I asked her to give a little more indication of what is meant by 'the Constitution as a standard address'. And I asked about the wording of the relevant provision. As far as the wording is concerned, I have heard two important elements. In the government's view, too, the wording remains whatever you think of it; my group also thinks that some of this is essentially the intention behind the motion, namely that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. The government strongly confirms that the wording that has now been used clearly expresses that intention. Moreover, there is a second argument, which also appealed to me, namely that the wording as it now stands thanks to the House of Representatives, is in line with the order of the chapters in the Constitution. I must honestly say that I have no reply to that, because I do. I can only agree with that for that reason, because our Constitution in the first chapter does not begin as it used to do with the King and only then continues with the parliament, but starts with the citizens, namely with fundamental rights. I did not come up with that argument myself, but at least it seemed extremely convincing to me. I will be happy to take that with me to the group. Mr President, then my second point: the Constitution as a standard address. It is clear: that means an assignment to the constitutionalist. There has been a lot of discussion: how should we interpret this and what is the role of the legislator and the judge in it? I would like to ask the Minister whether she can agree with this explanation within that discussion, on the basis that the proposed provision has primarily been given a mandate to the Constitutionalist. In the light of the fact that we have a hierarchy of standards in state law, which indeed indicates the relationship between the Constitution and the law hierarchically, in my opinion this means that both the legislator and the judge and everything that lies behind it cannot act contrary to the Constitution. This also means that the legislator must comply with his activities at the borders of the Constitution and cannot conflict with it. The complication that we have in our state law, namely that the legislator itself assesses it because of the absence of constitutional review by the judge, does not relieve the legislator of that duty. As I see it, this means that this provision is extremely important for the legislator: he will have to take that into account, otherwise he may be called upon to do so. The same goes for the judge. The judge also has to do with the hierarchy of standards. In the context of the legality test, he is obliged to check lower rules against higher ones. If constitutional review were to be introduced, it would be no different. Even then, the courts will have to review laws in the light of the Constitution. As far as I am concerned, that will have to be implicit. I would ask the Minister whether she can agree to this interpretation, including the general provision. By the way, it is only right that the Halsema Bill may never be introduced again, because that general provision is not in place, so it would already be excluded. So maybe we can do something with that. In other words, I strongly ask the Minister whether my interpretation of the relationship between the Constitution and the law and, therefore, the relationship between the constitutionalist and legislator in the context of the phrase that the normal address is the constitutionalist is acceptable to the government. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u92	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Let me start with the point of exactly how this bill has been formulated: are these the nine words it should be? My group can live with it. We can imagine that all kinds of other wordings are possible, but by including the concepts of "fundamental rights" and "democratic rule of law," you can cover a great deal in that limited vocabulary. So we will not make a point of that. The functioning of the law in daily business is another point. Of course, Mr Engels is right that there is a hierarchy between the Constitution and ordinary legislation, which also affects the constitutionalist's hierarchy. Because we are also talking about a normative framework, it remains open to much interpretation, not in the legal sense, but in the legislative sense. My group continues to oppose this. What kind of normative framework do we put down for ourselves? Is that sharper because of this general provision, or does it really not matter because these standards are already intertwined in our thinking and acting as legislators, regardless of their legal significance? This would be my interpretation: if you include a normative framework in the form of a general provision in the Constitution, that would also be a balancing point for the legislator when he proposes or wants to amend ordinary, other legislation. It is then up to each part of the legislator to look at how that consideration works out and to form an opinion on it. We wouldn't want to get rid of that. I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on this. We take the answers and discuss in our group how we deal with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u94	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Minister for her answers. My group maintains that the wording 'The Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights' could be strengthened by the addition of the State Commission: the government respects and guarantees human dignity. As far as we are concerned, this may have a positive impact on the normative nature of the general provision. It can also have a positive impact on the educational function of the Constitution in our society. The Minister constantly states that this supplement does not tolerate the austerity of the Constitution. We are not convinced of that. We insist that it does not really outweigh the importance of that general provision when it comes to normality and, for example, the strengthening of public administration and public administration's treatment of citizens. I am going back to my group and we are happy to come to the Chamber with our position. I missed something, but maybe I didn't hear that. Perhaps the Minister could comment on the views of the College of Human Rights and the Council of State on the normative effect of this general provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u96	Thank you, Mr. Sini. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. Nevertheless, the interesting debate has raised some questions about interpretation. That is why I would like to put a few more questions which are important to ensure that we do not have different interpretations. The first question: is the proposed provision addressed exclusively to the constitution or also to the legislator and the judge, secondary, tertiary or whatever? The latter does not matter very much, but does that provision only concern the constitutionalist or other bodies? The second question is: is the provision directly enforceable for the citizen, naturally in compliance with the current prohibition of scrutiny? This is, of course, linked to the significance of the provision for the legislator or the judge. The third question: if the provision is a framework provision for the constitutionalist himself, does that mean that the elements of the democratic rule of law now have to be incorporated into the Constitution as a follow-up? I am thinking, for example, of the separation of powers, which is only partial or limited in the Constitution, and of the principle of legality, which we have also talked about. Does it therefore include a certain task for the Constitution or not at all? The Minister has said a few times that the provision also has normative meaning, not just symbolic meaning. If the provision is not merely a symbol or principle, but also a normative meaning, if it has a kind of self-execution clause, could you actually say, "This would mean that the principle of legality would be fully applicable if this provision, which guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, were to come into force?" Because that is part of the democratic rule of law. For example, are externally employed, self-employed AMVBs then in breach of the Constitution, or does that not mean at all? What consequences does this have for our view of the separation of powers? If it has normative meaning, are the various elements mentioned in the written procedure also codified or not? My fifth question. The Minister emphasised the austerity of the Constitution. This austerity does not preclude the inclusion of a provision guaranteeing fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. That is a bit of a pleonastic provision, as we have already established. The sober nature does not oppose this, but it does oppose the inclusion of three others which, like fundamental rights, are equally important for the democratic rule of law. My question is where the border is. Would another provision violate the sober nature of the Constitution or not? Then there's my sixth question. We have been discussing a lot of legislation recently that has dealt with constitutionality. I am also, of course, thinking of the bill on organ donation that we discussed here last week. The cooperation school has already been mentioned earlier, but we have also discussed the Media Act. Would this proposal have had any significance for the way in which this legislation has been dealt with by the Second and First Chambers? I'd like a response from the Minister. I am not yet asking whether that would have led to another conclusion or outcome, but should it have led or not to another treatment? And then finally. Given the different views, perspectives and interpretations that are now a bit in the air, I still have the question of what the provision ultimately adds to our beautiful Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions, including our first-term questions. I congratulate the Minister on the fact that, speaking in office, she has kept her party political origin completely hidden. Only a short while ago, Minister, and that has already been achieved! With regard to the constitutional review, the Minister has given us a clear answer, particularly in the context of my repeated question in the event of interruption. She says: yes, that was also the point in the Thomassen Committee's report, but that was already shot down in 2012, because that was not put back on the table in the English motion. The Minister refers to the argument at the time and therefore she can refrain further from taking an opinion. The latter she didn't say literally, but she did. Well, I don't think we're getting anywhere with that today. I hope to find out in the coming years whether the Minister himself has an opinion on this important issue, including in her position. The inclusion of more fundamental rights in the Constitution, as a follow-up to the inclusion of the provision that the Constitution would guarantee fundamental rights, has not really been addressed by the Minister, except for the general argument: yes, you can put a little less into it, you can put a little more into it, but as it now looks, it is, and every sentence in it makes it less concise. Yeah, that's true. We should not have had the debate for that reasoning, but on the concrete question of whether it is not quite absurd that we should be putting in the Constitution 'the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights', while we then explicitly include some of the most important fundamental rights, including from international treaties to which the Netherlands is a party, in our Constitution, the Minister remains guilty of the answer. I'm sorry about that. We cannot force the Minister to accept this logic, but I would appreciate that. With regard to the explicability of the principle of legality, the Minister has been ready to do so. As far as we are concerned, the answer is very unsatisfactory. We see this as a missed opportunity. In conclusion. As far as our group is concerned, the general provision proposed by the Thomasses Committee would have been by far the preferred one. It is only after seven years that we come to this conclusion because this is the first opportunity for our group to bring it forward. We cannot be blamed for having worked on a rather vague text for so long. We would also have preferred an addition to the most important fundamental rights in the Constitution, which would be included. Secondly, as far as our conclusions are concerned. If, in the opinion of the majority of Parliament and of the government, the general provision should be very brief and concise, we would have preferred only to add paragraph 1 of the Thomasen Commission, 'The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law'. That will be brief and concise. It is even five words rather than the nine that are now being proposed, better and more succinct. Third. Now only the lean proposal is "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law." For. As a group, we had already foreseen that at the end of the debate we would not get any further than these nine words. So we've already weighed that situation. Mr President, unlike other political groups, I do not need to keep you in suspense for 14 days. Our final weighing is known. The final weighing of the SP Group is: under the motto 'better than nothing', the SP Group will not abstain from voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions in the first period. My group has not yet received a convincing response to the usefulness and necessity of the proposed general provision, and that is three points. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. The first point is the guarantee function. My group is still in the dark when it comes to the guarantee function of the proposed provision. What does it mean now and why does the Constitution itself not have that guarantee? Why is the general provision necessary for this? Perhaps the Minister could give us another example, which is less extreme. The second point concerns the legislative effect. What does the Minister mean in concrete terms by the functioning of the legislative strengthening of fundamental rights? I've been looking for more body for this text, but I haven't found it yet. I still don't see it. The third point is the standard address. That was a somewhat confusing discussion. Can the legislator or not check legislation against this general provision, or should the formal legislator, not the Constitutionalist, but the formal legislator, fall back on concrete, numbered provisions? It seems to me that this is not the case, but I would like to be confirmed by the Minister. I also heard the Minister say at the beginning of her first term that another argument for proposing this general provision is that the Constitution requires maintenance, but also disclosure. My group would like to know from the Minister how hard this argument weighs for the legislative proposal. Finally. I am looking for arguments to be able to give good advice to my group. I don't have enough yet. I must confess that I went into this debate with the approach: there is nothing against it. That in itself is not a really strong text, it does not benefit, it cannot. I am now very much looking for reasons to be for it. The answers to the questions asked certainly affect the aspect of legislative quality. That's where we review laws. That aspect will also be taken into account in my group's final assessment. The Minister's answers, even in the second term, will therefore be a factor in the position that my group will ultimately adopt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u100	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u101	Thank you, Madam President. I liked that the Minister indicated that nine times the word Constitution was mentioned in the coalition agreement and that this indicated how important it was. I checked my own text from the first term and came up to 22 times, so I think it's so important. I asked another question that I did not receive an explicit answer, namely whether you should regard this general provision as a first-rate provision. The Minister used another word, namely the umbrella clause. I was thinking about what Mr. Swagerman of the VVD once said: isn't it some sort of spray installation that is used under the general provision on all fundamental rights? A question linked to this is this: how would this provision have been worked out, for example, in last week's debate on donor registration? Does that really have added value? That is one of the concrete examples we may be looking for today. I'm a little worried, though. Many parties in this Chamber have indicated that they find some things wrong in this general provision. It's about the Constitution. We have had a discussion about the constitutionalist, the legislator and the judge. I asked the Minister: is this now constitutionally ripe? No one seems really excited. When it comes to the quality of legislation, I would say, following on from Mr Köhler, that in the Constitution you should not say 'better than nothing', but 'better nothing than something', if it is not qualitatively good. My group therefore has great difficulty with this proposal. This means that we will not vote in favour of this bill as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u102	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. At one point she comes back, but they are important points, so I look forward to that. With regard to her response to the standard address of this provision, I would also ask her to address the point I raised in the first period, namely the concern of Ernst Hirsch Ballin, among others, who referred back to the debate on the cooperation school. In doing so, the two chambers changed the interpretation of Article 23 of the Constitution by relying on a teleological explanation. What guarantee would this provision, which we are discussing today, have given in such a debate? Can the Minister give a little more colour to this, without talking directly about the abolition of Article 1 and other dramatic matters, which I hope will never come before? Then there is the wording of the proposed provision. It is a very clear statement of what the Constitution guarantees. The Minister refers to other constitutions. It referred to Norway and Finland. I would like to ask the Minister how she weighs the constitutional review on that point, because it is precisely in those countries that there is this constitutional review. Then the safeguards can also gain control in a different way. What safety valve does the Minister see in our country, where we do not have that constitutional review, in order to fulfil that guaranteeing function? On that point, please clarify. An important part of my contribution was about the fact that the supporting freedoms and principles of our country and our rule of law are rooting deeper than a legal document. They have their origins in our history. I referred, for example, to the Paste of Abandonmenthe. I have invited the Minister to reflect on this, but above all I would like to taste the fear of not getting into the preamble. I would like to ask her to consider this point a little more thoroughly and to consider with kindness what the Christian Union Group is giving her, namely to give her the value of the Constitution, which is evident from this history. During this cabinet period, I believe that the Minister has good opportunities to increase the accessibility of the Constitution to everyone in our country and thereby the appreciation. I'll come to a conclusion. The text is thin, not sober, I would like to say. My group would certainly have preferred the wording of the state committee. But that's not how history's rolled so far. In spite of everything, we do see this as a strengthening of the Constitution. It's a small step. In this sense, my group is in this debate constructively. But at the end of the day, it must be clear what we are adopting here. That is why I look forward to replying to the Minister in the second term. I'll take it to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u104	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. The Minister has requested a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u105	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to return to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question from the CDA. In her interpretation, there seemed to be some light between what was in the previous written reply and what I said here. I have looked into it and I would like to go into more detail later on about the standard address, but in both the written and oral replies I have sought to show that the Constitutionalist is primarily a standard address. There should therefore be no light between what I have argued here and what has previously been exchanged in writing with your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Now that I have said that, I would like to answer the questions again in the order in which they were asked, starting with the PVV group. He asked about the Ien Dales Lecture I held and even quoted it. It concerns the Constitution and Article 1 of the Constitution. People are invited to talk about it, and so have I. I have pointed out moments in our recent history where a number of parties, whom I have referred to as 'populists', have made proposals to delete Article 1 of our Constitution. What changes does the proposal for a general provision that is now before us in relation to the current situation? What does it change about the theoretical possibility of deleting Article 1, which some in this Chamber have just argued that it was almost too absurd to propose, compared to any constitutional amendment and the procedure before it? If that is the specific question, I would argue that the general provision actually creates an additional threshold for this type of proposal. The general provision does not make it impossible, but creates an additional threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u107	It raises an extra threshold. So where is this threshold concretely derived from in this general provision? This is not just about the fact that this has been discussed, but the Minister also says in her reading that the foundation of society is being attacked. This Article 1 provision was not introduced into the Constitution until 1983 in my birth year. Before that, was there no foundation in our society? This is a very far-reaching statement. The Minister says that it would then be attacked by people who question that article. At the same time, I have heard her regularly say in this discussion that we have a living Constitution, a living document, which can be discussed. It is also a question of how the Minister looks at this article. Is it aimed at individuals? How does she see that article? Can you still have that discussion if, in this way, with such a general provision, it is actually seen as a foundation when apparently it does not exist for 35 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u108	I do not think it is relevant how old specific parts of a Constitution are. Our Constitution as such is very old, one of the oldest in the world, after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u109	The eldest. He's older than Norway's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u110	I thought he was the same age as the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u111	Because these Norwegians always think they have the oldest, but we have the oldest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u112	I am very glad that you correct me on this point, Mr President. Thank you. The Constitution is old, but it is also being amended. Often there is codification in the Constitution of certain things that we consider important in the Netherlands, in our democratic rule of law. So today we are talking about a general provision, the content of which for many people is actually self-evident, namely that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law and that we have fundamental rights. Those fundamental rights have been changed and amended and supplemented over time, including in Article 1 of the Constitution, but my argument was that Article 1 is extremely important for many people in the Netherlands, perhaps for all people in the Netherlands, because of these fundamental rights. Of course, the weighting of the fundamental right that you consider important can be different, but as a minister responsible for the Constitution, I think that I should stand up for that Constitution. And again, we have just said to each other that this Constitution is changeable and not unchangeable, but only after careful consideration and a careful and heavy procedure for constitutional change. That general provision adds exactly that to the Constitution, and it will therefore have to be taken into account by the Constitutionalist if there are any changes to be made. Once again, I will come back to the questions that have been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u113	Mr. Van Hattem, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u114	Yes, 'adds that', 'taking into account': it is still a bit of a ghost game which now becomes the concrete meaning of that general provision. The minister says that she is going to protect what she sees as the foundation of our society. The question remains to what extent that is the foundation, but apart from that, what is the real added value of that general provision in practice? "It will have to be taken into account" is a fairly open wording that actually adds very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u115	I have heard some people argue that perhaps we should just write down that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. Even if that is not in a general provision in the Constitution, it is. The fact that it is and that you write that down this way... An amendment by the VVD in the Lower House has now been adopted for the wording that is before us, but whether it directly, specifically changes something or more is a general provision that writes down what was already implied and was explicit through other legislation, that is an interpretation issue. The PVV very strongly asks about its concrete impact. Apparently, that's important for the PVV. For others, it is more important to lay down in the Constitution that we attach here to fundamental rights and to the democratic rule of law. I don't want to go into that any further. I think it is important that at the end of this debate we give the same explanation of the importance of this general provision. That is why I should like to comment on the questions that have been raised in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u116	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem. Now it's really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u117	I keep coming to the point where, on the one hand, the Minister says that Article 1 is more difficult to change, if anyone wants to, while at the same time she says that it is an open standard that has no concrete effect at all. I still can't reconcile those two things. On the one hand, she says that it is becoming more difficult and that an additional threshold is being set, but on the other hand she cannot concrete that threshold in any way. As far as I am concerned, this is the crux of the matter, when we come to work on such important changes and really add something to the Constitution, which is so unclear. I have difficulty in clearly agreeing to this or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u118	It's an extra touchstone, but it's not absolute. It is not the case that this addition makes certain things that could have been done before impossible, but it is an additional touchstone, part of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. A second question from the PVV group was about 'national right of self-determination', which I believe were the words used versus European agreements. I don't think the PVV is too excited about that. However, I think it is important to mention Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. That is the provision which provides that treaties which depart from the Constitution can only be adopted by a special majority. Furthermore, I do not agree with Mr Van Hattem that the presence of European governance as such is a good illustration in this respect, especially since there are more than enough democratic guarantees in the agreements and procedures at European level. Then there are the questions of interpretation. Is it primarily the Constitutionalist, except the Constitutionalist, who is a standard address? I want to repeat it. I will try to do so as clearly as possible, so that at least there is no ambiguity on my part. I have always argued that the standard address is primarily the constitutionalist. It is the constitutionalist who exercises the interpretative function in the creation of new ground legislation. We agree on this and we have no misunderstandings. The constitutionalist will have to guarantee it. Due to the hierarchy of standards, the legislator is obliged to comply with the general provision. In preparing new legislation, the legislator will have to ensure that the guarantee function of the Constitution is respected, for example when it comes to respect for fundamental rights. The legislator must respect the Constitution. If the Constitution has a general provision, then the legislator must also comply with the general provision. That is what I meant and I think it has always been argued by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u119	Does "observe" also mean "tests" in this context? Is that how I understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u120	In the preparation of new legislation that could be called a test the legislator should do so, yes. I try to think along with Mr Engels, who also asked a question about this. He mentioned the hierarchy of standards I just mentioned. The answer to his question is 'yes', if he explains exactly what I have just argued exactly as he explained in his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u121	I hear the Minister now saying "tests." She has just mentioned an extra touchstone. Is it then merely a test of this general provision in the Constitution? Or should the legislator be expected to examine all the other sources of law which contribute to the creation of this article, including the explanatory memorandum and the Acts of what we are discussing today? How far should this review go? What is the scope of that review?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u122	I shall confine myself to the question raised here by several Members: should the legislator take it into account? My answer is: yes, the legislator must do so. The legislator must now take account of the Constitution and will also have to do so with the general provision. The legislator should take that into account. Furthermore, it does not change the normal way of working in the event of legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u123	I think there is still a difference between 'taking into account' and 'effective tests'. In my opinion, there is a legal difference, if you have to deal with it in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u124	Yes, I myself use the term 'taking account' to distinguish between, on the one hand, the role of the constitutionalist, the primary standard address as I have just argued, and, on the other hand, the role of the legislator, who, as usual in new legislation, must look at the Constitution and respect and respect the guarantee function of the Constitution. I chose those terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u125	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u126	I have now heard the Minister both use the terms, both 'take account' and 'take into account' and 'tests'. In the case of tests, there must be very specific standards which can be tested. Such a general provision "the name" already says it: "general" does not have any specific testing standards. As far as I am concerned, there is a problem in the way in which this general provision should be interpreted when establishing legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u127	The general provision is formulated as a general provision, i.e. short, sober and limited in its wording. You may want to involve yourself more, but that proposal is not before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u128	In this context, I still attach great importance to clarity and clarity. I just heard Mr Van Hattem distinguish between the general provision itself and the explanatory statement, in short, the legal history. Will the Minister confirm that the legal history, including the explanatory statement and what we are exchanging today, is part of the interpretation of the general provision, which becomes law at the time of adoption of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u129	In my view, this is no different for this proposal than for other proposals for constitutional change and also for legislative amendment. The whole thing counts, but we also agree that the general provision, when it comes, is as it says and is very short. Indeed, I can, of course, confirm that: the entire legal history. I'll see if I can move on to the question of the Labour Party. I am sorry that Mr Sini and I, as I have just argued, agree on the material importance of human dignity. I would argue that this is implicit, but not explicit. The reason not to do so explicitly is that other explications could be part of it. We could have a whole debate on this with each other. The choice has been not to do so and to be able to leave it with this sober wording, but that does not detract from the importance of human dignity, as Mr Sini has just pointed out. I'll see if I've gotten to the CDA's questions yet. There were seven of them. I think I've already answered the first one. The second question is whether it is directly enforceable for citizens. No, citizens cannot invoke this general provision in this way, because the general provision has no subjective right. The third question was whether further steps would still be needed. That is not necessarily the case either, because the general provision does not require further legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u130	A question in this series has not yet been answered. The Minister said that it has a radiating effect on the legislator. The legislator must take this into account, but it has remained vague for a while as to whether it is tests. In the first term it was also discussed that it also had meaning for the court and that the judge could do something with it. You say that it is not directly enforceable for a citizen, but it is still something else whether the judge himself can do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u131	I said a short word about this in the first term. I have said that it is possible for the judge to play some role in the application or interpretation of the general provision, although it is not very obvious that this should happen. To the extent that the court will review regulations, it will consult more specific provisions before doing so. It goes without saying that the court is not in a position to examine legislation formally in the light of the general provision of the prohibition of review.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u132	It may have concrete consequences, because we have also talked about the principle of legality. This is enshrined in the democratic rule of law. This is not just about formal legislation, but also about lower legislation. Can the judge use the word "legal state" to say: the principle of legality applies and we are going to declare certain legislation unbinding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u133	I understand the question. I find it difficult to imagine that would happen. I answered three questions from the list of seven. The fourth question was again about the normative meaning. The interrupting debate was about whether the underlying elements are being codified. Again, the general provision does not require further legislative amendment or constitutional amendment and certain principles, such as the principle of legality, the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights, are already guaranteed by the current Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u134	I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'd like to do that anyway. That question concerned the normative nature of the provision. The Minister has said several times that it is not only symbolic, but also truly normative. If it really has a normative meaning, you can say that it has also codified the democratic rule of law as such in the Constitution. That actually implies that you are creating some sort of self-executing standard, I say a little bit wrong, which means, for example, that elements of the democratic rule of law simply apply in the Constitution. Let me take the principle of legality as an example. Only a few of these elements are now guaranteed. It is not fully guaranteed by the Constitution. My question is therefore: is the principle of legality, by virtue of the normative nature of the proposed general provision, now also formally codified in the Constitution as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u135	I have just argued that the principle of legality, but also other important principles, such as the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights, are guaranteed without this general provision being part of the Constitution. But I see from Mrs Van Bijsterveld that that is not exactly what she means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u136	Finally, Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u137	Let me take the principle of legality as an example. There are a number of elements of codification in the Constitution, but this does not cover the principle of legality as usually described in the constitutional literature. The current Constitution does not require all public action to be based on the law. For example, independent general administrative measures are possible, provided that they are not enforced by penalties. Is the principle of legality actually codified or only in so far as it is already guaranteed? This is particularly important on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u138	My interpretation is that it is the latter: in a sense, this general provision on the principle of legality, as we already know, does not include the amendment to which Mrs Van Bijsterveld refers. Mr. Chairman. I have three more questions from Mrs Van Bijsterveld. She also asked about austerity. Some might think he's too sober. They'd like to get him dressed a little more. Some people want him even more sober. That is ultimately a matter for the Constitutionalist. Until now, the opinion of the government and also of the House of Representatives has been that a balance has been found here between austerity and limiting or completely removing interpretation problems on the one hand, and the desired normative function on the other. Mrs Van Bijsterveld but also Mr Schalk asked: if this general provision had been part of the Constitution, would it have had consequences for, for example, the treatment of the organ donation law? In general terms, the general provision may have consequences because it is possible to assess explicitly the notions of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, but in the case of the organ donation law, this test of the Constitution has also been discussed without that general provision. So obviously that could already be part of the debate and the legislative process. I think that would have been no different with a general provision. Finally, the last question in the list, question number seven by Mrs Van Bijsterveld. That question was also asked by the VVD and others. What is the real added value of adding that general provision? I don't think we should look for it in the concreteness of it. It's not a hook you hang all kinds of concrete actions on. That is not the intention of the Constitutionalist here. It is more about articulating the function of the Constitution, of underlying principles that are important to us, and of providing an interpretative framework. I say this in the direction of Mrs Duthler and others who said: if we are to take this decision together, I think it is important to know why we are doing so. I would say: for that reason, the articulation of something underlying which we consider important, and the interpretative framework that the general provision will soon provide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u139	That is exactly the question I wanted to ask: what is the added value if you weigh this whole debate now? So this means that the Minister is almost saying: it's just how you interpret it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u140	I mentioned two considerations, one of which offers the possibility of interpretation. That is why I am ultimately charmed by the sober wording. That does give direction to that interpretation. The second, underlying idea is to articulate what we consider important in the Netherlands, which is not yet explicitly part of the Constitution and what you immediately notice in that general provision. Mr. Chairman. In any case, I have one more question from Mrs Duthler of the VVD. She mentioned this in the first and second term: if you try to make that guarantee function concrete and you talk about very extreme situations, it is difficult. I do understand that that doesn't really appeal to the imagination because we all assume that that doesn't happen, that they are more theoretical examples. At the same time, the legislative proposal as such, as I have just argued, can also contribute to a greater awareness, a constitutional awareness I would almost say. This awareness can be helpful if more realistic questions of law are dealt with in Parliament. A not entirely imaginary issue would be the question of the introduction of a threshold for voting and the question of constitutional scrutiny, which I did not wish to anticipate too much. It is conceivable that such a parliamentary debate will take place at some point. Against the background of a general provision, such questions could, I believe, be discussed more clearly. In that light too, the guarantee function becomes visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u141	The Minister now says that the general provision in a proposal to introduce an electoral threshold has added value in the sense of a guarantee function. I think that is a very interesting argument. But later we also had a discussion about the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act. In a referendum, which is also an important democratic means, does it have less value than at an electoral threshold, which, as far as I am concerned, is not very desirable? In one situation it is desirable, usual and applicable, but not in the other. Could you perhaps explain that a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u142	In the first period, we discussed a specific situation, namely the second-term debate in the House of Representatives this evening. If there was a general provision and we had the same debate with each other, the question could be raised as to whether the repeal law for the consultative referendum is not contrary to the concept of democracy. Then the cabinet should be able to explain why that is not the case. What I have just said is that a non-binding consultative referendum as such, unlike a corrective referendum, is not contrary to the Constitution. There is therefore no obligation under the Constitution to make it possible. That would have been my answer if that were a question in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u143	Mr. Van Hattem, briefly. One more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u144	Well, that's an interpretation. But if we have this general provision, what will be the reference framework for such a review? Should we then, as has just been pointed out, take all the legal history into account to assess which standards will be tested, or is it limited only to that one sentence? For now you have just indicated that this legal history is indeed important, but do we really get a whole exegesis of everything that has ever been dealt with here and discussed about this law or a review standard for new legislation? Because that may lead to a very complex situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u145	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u146	I think the Minister has already answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u147	I did answer that question just now. Maybe one day we'll get the test case you're talking about. We'll see. In the end, however, it is intended to include a general provision in the Constitution. I have just argued how this could be handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u148	Mr. Van Hattem, I just told you you were still getting that one interruption. It's done now. Mrs. Duthler, maximum two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u149	Maybe it can stay with one. I am still a little after chewing on the reinforcement of the guarantee function and the example of raising the electoral threshold. Could the Minister elaborate on what safeguards that general provision would give extra if such a bill were proposed? I don't see him yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u150	I realize that every example I mention is wrong, because that always evokes reactions. Those are examples that people are for or against, and I understand that very well. But I'm trying to make it a little more realistic than the examples I just mentioned. The second complication and the handicap I have now is that this situation has not yet occurred. So that's a little unexplored territory. I find it difficult to answer exactly how that would take shape, because you have to see in front of you what type of debate will be held and what type of questions could be asked. However, the difference is that this would be done in the context of that general provision and that the parties could therefore rely on the interpretation of that general provision in their assessment of such proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u151	Mrs. Duthler, you said...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u152	Still a second, which will be the last. That electoral threshold is not entirely unthinkable, because we have a state committee parliamentary system. Imagine that this committee will come up with a proposal to raise the electoral threshold and that, for example, you will need many more signatures to form a party that can participate in the Lower House. What guarantee does this general provision have in that particular example? 'Cause I could make him up if I were against raising the electoral threshold. But imagine if I were in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u153	I believe Mrs Duthler has a much richer fantasy than I do. But I can imagine that both sides of the road are indeed making a case. That is why I also said: it will not settle the discussion, but it will perhaps give the discussion a stronger approach, namely that the background of the general provision can be invoked when building up a reasoning as to why the threshold is a good idea or not. Moreover, it will be true that, if the State Committee on Parliament's Rules of Procedure comes up with its recommendations, this constitutional change is not yet a fact. However, it may well be that we can talk for a very long time about the recommendations of the State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u154	Maybe they won't come up with a recommendation on a threshold. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u155	That too is not clear at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u156	Mr. English, you're dribbling back and forth, but you don't want to interrupt? Not anymore, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u157	Finally, a few questions from the Christian Union Group. I hope I will answer them correctly, because she has indeed referred to Article 23 of the Constitution twice. Of course, Article 23 and other articles of the Constitution are not directly affected by this general provision. The addition of a general provision therefore does not require amendments to any article, and certainly not to Article 23. Suppose there would be proposals to amend Article 23, which is just as hypothetical as the case we were just discussing, if not contrary to the general provision. That is perhaps an unsatisfactory answer, and I may not have understood the question properly enough, but that is what I could say about Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u158	That was not exactly the example I was referring to. The point was that we were discussing a law in which the Council of State clearly advised this Chamber to opt for a different interpretation of Article 23, namely the teleological interpretation, which has not been used so far. It is precisely on that point, so that we are going to explain a constitutional article differently from what has happened so far, that I ask what that guarantee function that is contained in this general provision means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u159	Nothing but what I have just said, namely that it can play a role in this kind of discussion. But it is not a provision that can settle such a discussion in absolute terms. Maybe it can be invoked, but I can't completely oversee that. The discussion is thus already taking place on the basis of the current Article 23. Part of our democratic rule of law is that interpretations must be given. In my view, this does not change by adding this general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u160	You may also do one more, Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u161	But what is the guarantee function? Then it is much better to say that this is more symbolic-normative than to say that it is very important that there is a democratic rule of law. If you change something in the interpretation, should this particular provision that you are now proposing be included, because it says so much about what the Constitution does with the meaning of our fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u162	I am nevertheless pleased with this final question, because it allows me to argue once again that the general provision makes explicit and thus strengthens us, the constitutionalist, that sometimes, in certain proposals or certain discussions, fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law may be at stake. I must say that I do attach great importance to this and that I would find this general provision an enrichment in that respect, because of that possibility. It's not gonna happen every day, but it's gonna be there. In such cases, it may be invoked. Perhaps then, finally, the last question from the Christian Union Group. The question was how to give a little more shine to our Constitution. Well, I'd say by talking about it a lot. At least we've done that these two weeks. But not only here, also in the country, also by anyone who comes here to visit, who sees that. The Constitution is kept alive by also speaking in favour of the Constitution, even outside this Chamber. That's what I see as my job. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u163	In the second term, I tried to remind the Minister of the questions I asked about the views of the College of Human Rights and the Council of State on the normative effect of the general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u164	I have to admit that I do remember now that Mr Sini has asked that question and that I have not yet been able to answer it. We have, of course, spoken in general terms about the College of Human Rights. Yes, if Mr Sini would very much like to have a more detailed answer to that, then I have to come back to that in a different way than I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u165	I see Mr. Sini nodding. But he's still coming to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u166	Excellent, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u167	Do you have any idea when you'd like an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u168	For the vote, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u169	That means that the written explanation will then be available next Friday before noon... Oh, in two weeks, you'll have extra time, because we have recess next week. But in any case this means that that written explanation must be with this Chamber by 12.00 noon on 2 March at the latest. Mr. Sini is satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u170	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-7.u171	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote on the legislative proposal next Tuesday, 6 March.
