ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the Municipal Law and the Province Act concerning the extension of the powers of the Council and Provincial States to waive the requirement of residence for aldermen and delegates (34807). We started a little later because we are awaiting the first speaker. He has not yet checked in, but since the other Members are present in the Chamber, we will proceed straight to today's second speaker, Mrs Özütok, who has registered for six minutes. Of course, I welcome the Minister who has been in the Chamber for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u2	I call Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In front of us there are two amendments to the Municipal Act and the Province Act, which give the local and provincial representatives more autonomy in order to better organise their own administrative organisation. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this autonomy fits well into our administrative system. It is the municipal councils and provincial states that are best placed to assess in a specific case whether, and in what way, an exemption from the requirement of residence of their aldermen and delegates applies. In addition, according to my group, the amendment of the law is also good because it ensures that municipal councils and provincial states can appoint the right people in the right place. Especially for small municipalities, it is not always easy for a party to find a suitable alderman within the municipality. If someone is found from outside and this person is difficult to find a home, or someone is going to fill the job part-time, or someone is getting in halfway through a council period for a short time, then it is good that municipal councils can allow such an alderman to stay outside the municipality. My group still has a number of questions to the Minister in relation to this part of the legislative proposal before us. The original planning was that this legislative amendment would be in force at the time when the new aldermen, after the recent municipal elections, were sworn in and that they would then be able to obtain exemption under the new legal framework. Can the Minister explain how this bill, if it starts, for example, from 1 January 2019, affects the exemptions already granted? Can the Minister also indicate how many aldermen and delegates are currently using the derogation currently in force? Does she consider the current waivers for mayors and Commissioners of the King adequate? What about the residence requirement for waterboard presidents? Mr. Chairman. The second amendment we received with the letter of amendment concerns the possibility of having municipal councils and provincial states appoint presidents from outside the board or states for council committees and state committees. This proposal also gives local and provincial representatives greater autonomy. That is a good thing. Especially for small municipalities, my group sees the added value of being able to appoint external presidents because the workload for council members is already very high and there will still be few candidates to take on the chair. However, my group still has some concerns. After all, it would not be a good idea to create a whole circuit of paid trade presidents who would hold presidencies in various municipalities without any commitment. Can the Minister indicate how this will be prevented? Is she willing to talk to congregations about this undesirableness? Can it indicate exactly what is the situation with regard to fees for independent Presidents of Council and State Committees? My group also wonders whether the Minister can give an indication of how many municipalities and provinces need this legal possibility. In conclusion, President: GroenLinks welcomes the proposed amendment, but we are still looking forward to the Minister's response to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you. I shall now turn to Mr Van den Bosch of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to say that my contribution is partly on behalf of the CDA Group and the Christian Union Group. That's just not a majority, but it doesn't save much. Mr. Chairman. The political groups welcome the proposal to extend the powers of the Council and the States to waive the requirement of residence for aldermen and delegates, the so-called residence requirement. It is an example of a law that is very supportive of practice, because we have been seeing municipalities attracting their directors from outside the municipal boundaries for a long time. Not every town is the same size. Sometimes it can be difficult to find suitable directors within your own municipality and the best candidate lives a municipality further away. However, every year it is important to relieve this driver of the residence requirement unofficially. Our three groups believe that it is right to facilitate this process. As the Minister now proposes this change, for the practical implementation, autonomy remains with the Councils and the States. We agree with that, too. It mainly gives them more freedom to fill it in to their own convenience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u6	I would like to interrupt you for an interruption by Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u7	A question to the three groups. If aldermen no longer have to live in these municipalities, why should that apply to council members?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u8	I'll go into what you can expect from aldermen. With aldermen and delegates, you can now see that the practice is that they come from outside. Aldermen sometimes come from a neighborhood. I don't think we should allow councilmen to come from outside. As far as I'm concerned, so is the mayor. They can come from outside, but they have to work and live in that municipality. I think it's something else with an alderman. I'm about to say something about it, but I think that's a big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u9	But why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u10	Because the council members ultimately have the mandate of their people, they have been elected by the population of that municipality, while an alderman has a mandate of the city council. The city council can consider whether an alderman is functioning properly, whether he is doing well in that municipality, or whether he is doing his best and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u11	Final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u12	Can't we get into a sliding bowl? It used to be unheard of that an alderman didn't live in his congregation. That's gonna be possible now. The next step is to say that city council members no longer have to live in the municipality. That's actually a very logical step, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u13	As far as the VVD is concerned, it is certainly not a sliding scale. For us, that next step would really be out of the question. Council members elected in their congregation, should live there. I also said that, as far as we are concerned, this also applies to the mayor, who should also be living in the municipality within a year. I am going to go into a little more detail as to why I think this is really different. Mr President, I shall continue. In this way they do not have to spend every year because that is what is happening now, and I would also say to Mr Bosma that special meetings are to be held on the exemption, because of course the practice is already so. This leaves more time for local issues. I would also say to my colleague, especially in municipalities and provinces, that it remains a matter of course for us to stand in the local mud with our feet. But we are confident that this is evident to local administrators anyway, and if local directors do not, local government and local council will intervene. I'm really convinced of that. In addition, our political groups are very pleased with the speed of the Minister to come up with a letter of amendment following the request by the Chamber to amend the Municipal and Provincial Laws so that municipal councils and states can decide how to organise the Presidency of committees themselves. Simply put, you don't have to be a member of the council or the states to be president anymore. In particular, this creates additional capacity for small municipal councils to fulfil their role as representatives of the people. Thanks to this change, the best and most enthusiastic external candidate can now be selected as President. I think that in practice, and you also saw that in the Netherlands before the previous minister said that it should not be, often former council members will also perform that function, for example. Maybe the Minister will go into that as well. I am confident that this will work, in general, because they also have a connection with the city council. You see in practice and you saw in practice that that happened. Anyway, we'll get back to that. Our three groups therefore think that many municipal councils will be very pleased with this, because this will also give them more room to deal with local issues. That's how we're gonna make the local government a little bit better. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Maybe this isn't the sexiest topic on the Chamber's agenda. We probably won't make the front page of the newspapers either, although it might be different when the last speaker gets the floor. But these two changes really add something to the quality of local government. We offer more space to councils and states to fill in how they want to shape certain things. That's how at least the VVD likes the government: not more rules, but especially easier, and very good customization. That is why I expect to end with the remark that both the Christian Union and the CDA and the VVD will vote with a good feeling for the present bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u14	Thank you. I shall then give the floor from the Chamber to Mrs Den Boer of D66. I see Mr Bosma warming up quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. That also seems very sensible with these temperatures. Today, we are talking about a law that will make more justice to local autonomy. Whether it is an exception to the rule that aldermen have to live in their congregation or to chair council committees by outsiders, municipal councils must be allowed to make their own choices. The same applies, of course, to the Provincial States. D66 is therefore in favour of this bill, which amends the Municipal Law and the Province Act in two respects. Mr. Chairman. The first amendment concerns the rule that aldermen and delegates must live in the municipality or province they run. That's a logical duty. Drivers must be connected to the city or region they run. However, for exceptional reasons, an alderman may not live in the municipality. Maybe he or she just lives on the wrong side of the street, but in fact he or she lives in the community. Now it is true that an exception to this rule can only be temporary. That exception must therefore be renewed every year. The present amendment provides that the city council may decide for itself whether and for how long an exception applies to the alderman in question. This way, customization is possible. This is also necessary because sometimes the law is broken. Aldermen stay on while the exception is no longer valid. In such a situation, they should resign. I have a brief question for the Minister about the residence requirement for mayors. For civic fathers or civic mothers of a municipality, who sometimes stay on for a long time, there is rightly the standard that they live in the municipality, especially because the mayor also has security tasks, for which he or she sometimes has to be on the spot quickly. Therefore, according to the Municipal Law, a mayor may only live outside his or her municipality for three years in exceptional cases. However, recent research by the Brabants Dagblad showed that the rules are violated in at least three Brabant municipalities. There are mayors who have lived outside their congregation for nine years. Is the Minister aware of this? What about the rest of the Netherlands? And what is the Minister's response to this? Does she see this as a problem? I like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The second point of the law is the proposal to ensure that non-Council members can also chair a council committee. D66 believes that this is a good proposal and has tabled a motion with other parties. In this way council members can be relieved in small municipalities or small groups. The municipal councils themselves can lay down rules regarding the Presidency. Will the Minister inform municipalities about this change of law? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you. I think I am going to take up Mr Krol's speaking time today. Mr. Chairman. This law concerns, among other things, the aldermen of the Netherlands. Something has to be arranged for them, because they deserve extra attention. They need to be ironed out. Let me be honest, I'm not in the mood to settle things for aldermen. Two days ago an event took place of historical importance and of national proportions, a glimpse of the norms and values of the Dutch administration. Tuesday there was a national meeting of the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities. There were no less than 3,000 people; most were mayors and aldermen. These people are so good. They blow with every wind to speed up their careers. Whether it's about diversity, transsexual toilets, the war against Black Piet, the hysteria against gas or the climate and polar bears, they always bump like easy sheep after all left-wing fashions, splashing virtue signals like pepper nuts. They also know who their enemies are. Name the name "Trump" and they fall foamy on the ground. Say "Wilders" and they'll spontaneously go out on the street to get autographs. Say "populists" and they roll up their sleeves. Call "Telegrapher" and they start screaming. The attempt to make a joke at the VNG congress of a twenty-six-year-old author is not a joke. It is an opinion, an opinion widely supported by 3,000 mayors and aldermen minus one. The columnist of D66 newspaper NRC Handelsblad just turns out to be incredibly good at exactly touching and addressing the group spirit, the herd moral that hangs in such a room. He feels perfectly what he has to say; he says what everyone thinks. The laugh explosion that follows is a recognition of group morals: look at us, look at us on the bright side of history. The applause confirms the intolerance that has become fleshy and the one-sided construction of our government elite. There's no one there to say, "Why, it was time for an attack?" On the contrary. An attack on the Telegraph? Ha, ha, ha, that'll teach the tokkies. Is the mocromafia working? Ha, ha, ha, live the diversity. For the cameras, they're willing to be shocked, but when they're together, the mask falls. Comrij wrote a poem about these people, right after the murder of Fortuine: "He's never danced before. He knows his purpose. Never been on his vale clerk's mug. Just a smile appeared, but that night, After the fool killed the fool, He crawled out of his bed, shining from the fun, And made a pirouette unwatched. Thanks, thanks, thanks, he yelled, the monster is down. He practiced the word "shocked" for tomorrow. And slept like 20 oxen can sleep. Soon he'll be, for the camera, full of worries. Of course he's tough on violence. There sounds his damn besieged song again. He walks in the street, unbearably righteous, And still doesn't see the real monster." Mr. Chairman. Pim Fortuijn was right: we live in an orphan society. The elite who should stand up for us are turning their backs on us. They look down on us. The people are on their way to the multicultural welfare state. Shut up and march on. The applause at the VNG Congress for an attack shows that we are ruled by an elite without morale. Violence and hatred are fine. See the PvdA mayor of Dokkum, who is going to Amsterdam to negotiate with the terrorists of Kick Out Zwarte Piet. See GroenLinks, which demonstrates together with the AFA. See the more active members of the campaign leader of that party. See the love for Pol Pot and Mao of the former leader of GroenLinks and the chairman of the VO Council. And see also the hatred in the New Year's speech of the then deputy mayor Ollongren in a D66-beer cellar, in which she called for elections not to be recognised if the wrong party wins, or party member Thom de Graaf, who connects unbearably righteous Pim Fortuijn with Anne Frank. The draft law that we are debating today is typical of the world view of D66 and Ollongren, as all its measures are ideologically motivated. The referendum must be broken, because the people must remain silent. More than 30 municipalities are destroyed with one area of pens, because the administration must get as far away from the citizen as possible. She believes that the Stasi called EUvsDisinfo, which hunts the so-called fake news, should flourish. And now she wants aldermen to stop living in their own congregation. Again, read Ollongren's New Year's speech and you know what time it is. If you want to know what the future looks like for the Netherlands, go to the city centre of Amsterdam. There is hardly anything Dutch about that. The Dutch language is increasingly marginalized. More and more of them speak English. In many restaurants nobody knows Dutch, so the native language. They don't understand you in stores. Meanwhile, you fight through hash clouds and vomit from foreign tourists. Mr. Chairman. How did it happen? How did one of the most beautiful pieces of the Netherlands become an international party center? Answer: Ollongren, who as city councilman debased the city center. An oikophobic fantasy has become reality. And why? Because the Netherlands isn't worth that much to our cosmopolitan elite: it's retarded, of the tokkies, nationalistic or something. Universities are being ensnared under a D66 minister. Foreign students are often in the majority. Sometimes they have no idea what country they're staying in. They're not at home; they're on their way. Today, we read in the Volkskrant that in museums the policorsekte will ban certain words. We can't have the word "we" anymore. There can no longer be us, just as there can no longer be a Dutch people. That's just racist. We can't have history anymore, except slavery and the crusades, of course. We can't be proud of anything anymore. We can't have roots anymore. All this is the ideology and practice of Ollongren and D66. The American philosopher Christopher Lasch described it so beautifully in his beautiful book The Revolt of the elite, the rebellion of the elite. He says: the new elite are only at home when they are on their way, on their way to an important conference, to the opening of a new branch, to an international film festival or to a tourist resort. I would add: or on the way to a VNG Congress. Lasch says: the elite are not citizens, but they look through the eyes of tourists at the countries where they are staying for a while. Also our municipalities, according to Ollongren, should be ruled by rootless people who are always on their way: then again alderman in Maastricht, then again in Meppel. Not a local bond, but a job carousel of interchangeable consultants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mr. Bosma, when you speak of the Minister of the Interior, we attach in this house that you speak of "the Minister of the Interior." When you talk about the alderman, you mention the name, fine, but I would ask you to speak about the minister as "the Minister of the Interior." Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u19	If you're always on the road, why would you have to live there? Question to the Minister of the Interior: If aldermen and delegates no longer have to live in a municipality, why should municipal council members and members of Provincial States? Would the Minister be okay if all the city council members would just live in the canal belt and so would all the aldermen? Not only should the minister and her cosmopolitan D66 transgressors no longer have national roots, no Black Piet, English at the universities, the power transferred to Brussels, mass immigration, history reduced to slavery and crusades, we should not have any local roots. See the destruction of dozens of municipalities, see the total internationalisation of the Amsterdam city centre and see this bill. Mr. Chairman. This minister, the most unpopular minister in the Netherlands, speaks mainly on behalf of the elites, who are only on their way home and who have no roots in the Netherlands, who are tourists in their own city or country. They are casual passers-by, rootless people, cosmopolitan consultants who will soon become alderman everywhere and nowhere, who will blow their hand at the VNG congress: hahaha, an attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u20	Thank you. The Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u21	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of the Interior. She'd like the chair to go up. Fantastic!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u22	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. That speaks a lot easier. Mr. Chairman. The bill we're discussing today is about two cases. The power of the Board to grant aldermen exemption from the residence requirement is extended. And the requirement that a council committee should be chaired by a council member lapses. Both proposals are based on motions adopted in your Chamber. It's motions that see more room for local customization. That's my agenda, too. In this respect, I am pleased that we can make progress on these two points, because that has everything to do with the confidence we express here in local democracy, namely giving space. For the record, I would like to point out that in both cases the Province Act is also being amended, but in the course of my speech I am simply referring to the Municipal Act. That's actually what most of the questions are about. First of all, the residence requirement. Since the introduction of dualisation in 2002 this issue has been discussed more frequently at that time it became possible to attract aldermen from outside the municipality. At the time, the government proposed that the Council should be completely free. But then there was a fear in the House of Representatives that there would be some sort of travelling circus of aldermen. The duration of the exemption was then limited by an amendment from the Chamber to one year. In practice, it was found that one year was insufficient to meet the residence requirement. This led aldermen, with the agreement of their council, to stay outside the municipality for longer, whereas there was actually no basis for that. In 2007, the law introduced the possibility that in special cases, of course with a justification, the exemption could be extended by one year each time. After that, the practice became law-compliant. That was important, but the annual renewal decisions were actually more seen as an administrative burden than a real balancing act. The present legislative proposal provides for the Council to grant an unlimited exemption to replace the system of annual renewal. This means that the Board is competent to waive the residence requirement at its discretion. This will implement a motion from your Chamber, the Litjens motion. As has already been said, this was a motion that mainly gave room to local autonomy. The Presidency of the Council's committees is the second subject we are discussing today. This is also about the implementation of a motion, namely the Koopmans motion. But honor who deserves credit: that motion was initiated by member Van den Bosch. At present, the Municipal Law requires the chairman of such a committee to be a member of the municipal council. It is proposed to abandon that standard and to leave the choice of chairing committees to the Council. In particular, council members from smaller groups and smaller municipalities experience the fact that they also have to chair a committee as a heavy time tax. They want to have more time for their tasks as a representative of the people, so their controlling task and their task in the congregation. In addition, we have gained more experience through the Experiment Law. There too, this wish has often been expressed. With this change of law, it is up to the city council itself to lay down rules on the chairing of council committees by regulation. The council may still choose to appoint a member of the council as chairman, but in future it can do so even if the committee member is not a member of the municipal council, for example when it comes to a duo council member. The Board may also elect an external technical chairman. If this is the case, it is also up to the relevant city council to determine whether there is a remuneration or not. In the letters that your Chamber has received, I have said that I would like to consider, in consultation with the domes, the points on which organic legislation can be further adapted in order to create even more room for customization. I will send the results to your Chamber at the beginning of next year. Mr President, this was in general a response to the request. There were specific questions. I'll be happy to answer it now. Mrs Özütok asked how many aldermen and delegates are currently exempt from the residence requirement. At the moment, as far as I know, there is only one deputy from outside. As far as the aldermen are concerned, the latest figures I have are from 2016. At that time, 9% of aldermen came from outside the municipality and were exempted from the residence requirement. So I don't know what it's like now. Of course, new lectures and new aldermen have also taken place. I don't have those numbers yet. But assuming that percentage and the total number of aldermen, I estimate that there are about 100 in the Netherlands. Ms Özütok also asked whether it was adequately arranged for mayors and CdKs. I think so. There was an extension in 2016 for mayors. The mayor has to live in the municipality, but the council can grant an exemption for the first year. That was the situation. In 2016 it is stipulated that the King's Commissioner may extend the waiver twice by one year in special cases. That is the situation since 2016. In my view, it is adequate and the legislative proposal does not provide for any change to this. As far as the King's Commissioner is concerned, there is no possibility of exemption, but it has not caused any problems in practice. Mrs Özütok asked whether the introduction, which could take place on 1 January, would affect exemptions already granted. In technology, it simply works so that the municipal councils have to comply with the law. They can therefore grant an exemption for one year on the basis of the existing law. If the amendment of the law comes into force, the municipal councils can take a new decision. That could be, if they so wish, about the remaining period for which they can then once again relieve. But that's their choice. Mrs Den Boer pointed out that in Brabant there would be three mayors who live outside their municipalities for longer and if I am familiar with them. I am indeed aware that this has occurred in a single case. It is also the subject of discussion with the King's Commissioners. The most important thing, of course, is that the mayor also discusses this with the council where this is concerned. The legal basis for the residence of mayors applies. I think that's important. The mayor is the figurehead of the municipality and indeed, as has just been said, he deals with public order and security. So that proximity and residence is really important. Mrs Özütok said about the chairmen of the council committees that this might also provoke people to become some sort of traveling chairman, because that possibility arises. I'm not so afraid of that. Municipalities decide for themselves whether it is just a council member, a committee member, not a member of the board, or the third option is a technical chairman from outside. They choose to do so. I also think, also on the basis of requests from municipalities, that they will often be former council members or people who have been involved in local politics in the past. It is up to the councils themselves to decide whether there is a compensation. And I don't think that remuneration will be such that it's an incentive to do this, but it's really about people involved. It is also a technical chairman, it is not a substantive function, it is a technical procedure. Mr Bosma asked why this waiver should apply to aldermen and not to council members. Council members are people's representatives and people's representatives can only be represented in the municipality if you are one of them and one of those you represent. So, as far as I'm concerned, that's not up for discussion. There were a few more questions. I realize I'm mixing them a little bit now, because I'm going back to the municipalities. They will be informed, i.e. on the date of introduction, of course after approval by Parliament. If the law is passed, they will be informed by means of a circular. Mrs Özütok asked about the water boards. The chairman of a waterboard must be resident on the waterboard. We see no reason to change that. Water boards may, if they wish, grant an exemption to the chairman on the basis of their own regulations. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered the questions that really saw this. I would like to come back to Mr Bosma's contribution. I had heard a great deal of his input in other debates before, but he pointed out the incident at the UNG Congress. I think it is important to say here, too, that the cabinet really condemned the attack on De Telegraaf and rose to protect the free press, one of the foundations of our democratic rule of law, through the Prime Minister and others. Moreover, the mayor of Amsterdam immediately assumed his responsibility, showed his involvement on the ground and scaled up by doing everything possible to track down the perpetrators. In Maastricht, where the UNG met, the President of the UNG also distanced himself from the comments made on the stage and the subsequent reaction. I also said that I thought it was really inappropriate, extremely unhappy. And I, as well as all those local administrators, and certainly also the mayors who are concerned with public order and security, and also aldermen who are themselves dealing with intimidation and aggression and violence, strongly condemn this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u23	Indeed, I have heard that response from the Minister of the Interior, and I am pleased with it. At the same time, however, my concern has not been overcome when I look at that UNG Congress. They are not the first to be there; that is the crème de la crème of the public administration in the Netherlands, the local government. There are 3,000 people, 3,000 people! These are all mayors, all aldermen, they play a crucial role in our democracy. And then something like that terrible attack in Amsterdam on De Telegraaf's building comes up and they're in a dent. They think that laughing after that remark from the gentleman who works for NRC Handelsblad, they think that's just laughing, it's even applause. What does that say about those people, what does that say about the mayors and aldermen of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u24	I think it is really important that the President of the VNG, Jan van Zanen, has given up on this, has made a very clear statement on this matter. I was not at the Congress at that time, as Mr Bosma may know, but I was there the day after I spoke to people about it. Of course, there has been a great sense of discomfort. Of course, it was by no means the intention of the mayors present, the aldermen present, to suggest that they would be in it differently from me. So I think they regret that; it is of course extremely unfortunate that it has happened that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u25	That's not really an answer to my question. Everyone is willing to do so.That's why I also nominated the poem by Gerrit Komrij to be shocked in front of the camera. Then they're all very righteous, and then they say the right things. But those mayors and those aldermen, 3,000 men strong, 3,000 men! They thought they were among themselves. A nice party, maybe a few days there, with a conference and another drink afterwards. It's all been awarded, they think they're among themselves, and then a horrible thing like that comes up. It is a cliché, but it is true: it is an attack on our freedom, on the freedom of the press. Someone from the state service, someone from the art elite makes a joke about it on stage and they all laugh, they all laugh, they all find it funny. Ha, ha, ha, there's been an attack on The Telegraph. 'Cause let's face it, The Telegraph thinks most of the people out there are horrible. Again, what does it say about the quality of the public administration, what does it say about local government in the Netherlands as 3.000? 3.000! Is that why mayors and aldermen are laughing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u26	It is the mayors in the Netherlands who are responsible for public order and security in their municipality. Many mayors have really had to deal with this, and they have had to deal with it because there is undermining in their congregation, because there is crime, because there is a threat against people in their congregation. They do know that at the moment that something like this happens against De Telegraaf, against the free press in the Netherlands, you must all rise up to defend that free press. What's happened is done. No one can reverse it, but I think those who were there would like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u27	A brief closing remark, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u28	Yeah, because I'm still not getting an answer. They should all rise up, but they did not, except, in my opinion, the leader of the group in Waalre, who should be honored, a D66. He tweeted about it and expressed his displeasure. For the rest, no one's gotten up at all. Of those 3,000 people present, no one else has risen. They all love it. They're applauding for a hit. They're laughing at a hit. It's gloating. The dedain squirts off. I'm gonna ask you for the third time. What does this say about the quality of local government? What does this say about those mayors and aldermen? What does this say about their morality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u29	That does not say anything about it because Mr Van Zanen, as President of the UNG, has renounced it in strong and clear terms on behalf of all those who were present. The mayors in the Netherlands, including the mayors present there, are responsible for public order and security. They know how important this is. I also guarantee that local government in the Netherlands is strong, honest and reliable in this respect. Local government is also the guardian of this foundation of our democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u30	Thank you. I'm looking at the Chamber to see if there's a need for a second term. There's that need. I give Mrs Özütok the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive response and for answering my questions. My group is in favour of this legislative amendment. We are also curious about its effects. Hence a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, when the proposed amendments to the Municipal and Provincial Laws Act are adopted, the municipalities and provinces will be given more opportunities to grant aldermen and delegates exemption from the residence requirement and to appoint presidents from outside the Council and Provincial States for council and state committees;]] [[Whereas it is important for the Chamber to know whether legislation is effective and it is therefore good to know whether and how municipalities and provinces make use of the legal possibilities;]] [[calls on the Government to periodically inform the Chamber of the use by municipalities and provinces of the possibilities offered to them by this change of law when the legislative changes are adopted by both Chambers and are in force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34807-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u32	Mr. Chairman. All I have to do now is pass judgment on the motion. I think it would be useful to inform the Chamber periodically. I could suggest to the Chamber that we do so with the so-called State of the Board, which we send to the Chamber once every two years. So that is a suggestion and I would like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u33	Mrs Özütok nods, I say because otherwise we cannot interpret the Acts. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-12.u34	The vote on the motion will be on Tuesday.
