ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery and, in particular, the Minister of Finance in trade-K. Speaking time is four minutes. I'll keep the number of interruptions on two, and we'll do this in two. You may also ask four questions, like last time. I shall first give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u2	Speaking time is four minutes. I'll keep the interruptions in two minutes, and we'll do this in two. You may also ask four questions, like last time. I shall first give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is enormous social indignation about the proposed 50% increase, from 2 million to 3 million, from ING's chairman. The Minister and the employees too, we have spoken to the chairman of the works council, were outraged. Fortunately, this also applies to all colleagues here in the House of Representatives. I've heard the VVD as a warm advocate for our Rhineland model; I'm really happy about that. D66 said a year ago: we need to relax that bonus legislation to get British bankers to Amsterdam because of the Brexit, but was also very sharp and critical in his judgment. I'm happy about that. Mr. Chairman. Let's go back to the cause of the financial crisis. It's not just in banker's rewards. It is also located in banks, including insurers, which had far too few buffers to absorb losses. Eventually, they made the taxpayer pay the bill. They were also in a culture of thinking only of yourself and not of the social interest. They were also in a culture of only earning, banking business, and neglecting the utility function. On these three points, of course, I shall come to the rewards, because that is the main point of this debate, and I expect the cabinet to propose that the financial sector be restored to health. I miss that one. The buffers, which have been raised to 4% under the previous cabinet, which lead us in Europe, may be reduced again. Is the cabinet willing not to? That's really the wrong way. Really the wrong way. They can go back from 4% to 3%, which means that every euro can be lent out 33 times. I haven't seen any proposals for separating utility and business banking. The European Banking Union must be established, but so many conditions have been created that we must see whether the Netherlands can accept it, while it is absolutely necessary to prevent it. In addition, of course, the banker's rewards, the main theme of this debate. Yesterday, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber about the possibilities he would like to explore to tighten up the bonus legislation. I am pleased that the law is being strengthened further, but one of the main questions is whether this will help enough. The next question is very simple. The minister's still looking into it, so it's just a question of whether he's coming up with these legislative proposals. But if this legislation is fully implemented, if the Minister comes up with all three legislative proposals, is it impossible for a bank like ING to re-establish some 50% wage increase as proposed in the future? Or can it just happen again? Because that's how I read the proposals, the consideration of the law. Then the emperor has very little clothes on. Then it looks more like a diversion to be tough than a real intervention in the financial sector. Would the present bill of the left coalition... or actually of a very broad coalition, because I would never call the PVV left............................................................................................................ Why doesn't that happen? Mr. Chairman. We had already foreseen that bankers would always look at the loopholes of the law when dealing with bonus legislation, which is the strictest in Europe. A motion was also adopted at the time, co-tabled and signed by myself, which intended to intervene legally if those loopholes were to occur. And now is the time to do that, Mr. Chairman. The heels have not yet been lifted or the proposals are being made again. And it's not just those bonuses that are there physically, I've been talking about buffers, I've been talking about separating utility and business banking. And I haven't even mentioned the possibility of bringing the Volksbank to the market. But this is the time to move on in the financial sector. I believe that the proposals made by the Minister do not contribute sufficiently to this. So I'm calling him to do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u5	Last week Mr Van der Veer was here. He made it very clear that, as far as he is concerned, ING's 3 million is not gone. This comes from a comparison of international business. He is underneath it and that is according to the Banking Code, but that is also according to the negotiated agreement with then Minister of Finance Bos. In other words, he says that the Ministry has always known this and we are filling it in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u6	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u7	Does Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party agree with me that this comparison of international companies is not in accordance with the social and political wishes and that it should be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u8	Yes, but I thought, quite frankly, that Mr Van der Veer's comment on the coordination with Finance actually created a bit of a twilight zone to exonerate himself. He's been in charge of his own choices. I've also read the Minister's account of the facts. That was meant to be. Then the rewards were much higher. The bonus legislation is also after that time. And then say: ING spoke to civil servants in 2010. To hide behind it while you make an irresponsible decision, I really don't think that's a pass. The same applies to the attempt to rub that ruler's back. I have not just rubbed that on Mr Hoekstra. This also applies to predecessors such as De Jager and Bos. I don't think that makes any sense. It was his choice. He has to stand in front of it and not create a bit of a twilight zone. We thought in that hearing that Mr Van der Veer was talking about a recent alignment. Turns out it's about 2010. Yeah, man, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you. Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. "Excessional" was the qualification of the Minister of the salary proposal for the Chairman of ING's Board of Directors. And almost Chamberwide, in our own words, we have condemned it. Bouncing and arrogant, I found it myself. Rarely is the indignation so widely shared in society. After the meeting with the President-in-Office last week here in the Chamber, my incomprehension has actually only increased. It was as if we were back in 2007, as if there had been no banking crisis, as if we had not had to keep banks with billions of taxpayers' money, as if the banking crisis had not led to the biggest financial and economic crisis since the 1930s. Disabling society, destroying confidence and tragically for all those who have lost work, income or even more. Then arrogance is a soft term for a President-in-Office who asks for an understanding of his facts, for his argument that he is building an international bank and for his claim that he should be paid according to the division of honor. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks has almost immediately announced an initiative law and has submitted it together with the majority of opposition parties. The Minister also announced quite quickly that he was considering legal measures. In his letter he describes three proposals. Let me start by saying that I think it is important that we tighten up the law. ING has damaged confidence in the banking sector, but if politics does not take action, then it is also bad for confidence in politics. If you say "a," say "b." And then the content, the three proposals of the Minister. The first is clawback, reclaiming salary and holding directors at insurers and banks responsible for when it goes wrong. An interesting proposal, but it seems to me to be very complex in legal terms. Then we really need to tackle property rights with retroactive effect. Isn't that right? How does the Minister see that? And is state aid, as stated in the letter, the condition to be met? Or is it, in the end, a proposal that seems to be legally too complex? The other two proposals put forward by the Minister come closer to the opposition's proposal. The first is to look at the variable components in the fixed part of the salary. We also saw this in the ING proposal. You can make conditions for that, you have to hold on for a number of years. In our proposal we do not even allow variable components in the fixed part anymore, only in the bonus part, as the original law was ultimately intended. In any case, we see the same problem, I hold the Minister in front of us, and at least we turn the same buttons. And that's profit, I'd say. On the third solution, we also see the same problem. Rewards must be accounted for in relation to the social function of financial institutions. And, writes the minister, he's going to investigate what role supervisors can play in this. Here we turn the same button again. We define the wording of the Banking Code, pay policy must be careful, it must be controlled, it must be sustainable and it must be able to rely on public support. We are giving the Minister a role in this as a system operator. You can change your mind about that. But anyway, we're turning the same buttons. At a later stage, we will look at the precise proposals, but does the Minister share my analysis that we are perhaps less distant from each other in terms of legal possibilities than is sometimes suggested? And, most importantly, does the Minister share my sense of urgency? Of course, legislation must be careful, but we must not wait for the next issue before we tighten up the law. It is not just about trust in the financial sector but also about confidence in politics. We've announced legislation. In my opinion, the salary proposal has also been withdrawn for the time being. Now we also need to speed up the legislation itself. What timetable does the Minister see for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. It was a fascinating week between March 8th and 13th. The unimaginable salary increase of about 50%, or 1 million euros, announced for ING's top man, heavily criticised by both society, the Second Chamber and the Cabinet, and also withdrawn. For days there was a storm of indignation going through the country. Customers left, other banks took advantage of their extra customers but were also disappointed because their sector was once again put in a bad light. But ING employees also made their voices heard. I read an open letter from an employee who told in a calm but determined tone how proud he was to work at ING again, now a few years after the credit crisis, but how miserable he felt when the salary proposal for the top man was announced. The way he ran into anger when he was pouring coffee in a nursing home during NLdoes. And how he could throw away his personal flyers as candidate council member for the municipal elections because he had put on it that he was working for ING. Because of this one week, there is only one feeling: have we learned nothing from the crisis? Is it business as usual again? After last week's hearing with Mr Van der Veer, it became even more clear that the gap between the banking summit and the rest of society is huge. But it also became clear that other representatives of the banking sector were upset by what ING had done. Was it just a kamikaze action by a small group of drivers who made a one-off mistake? Unfortunately, I doubt that, because ING's proposal is not the only one that we have seen over the last few months. Former state property a.s.r., only six months on its own, also announced an increase of 35% for the top, as its Anglo-Saxon shareholders had to be satisfied. Since when do we have an Anglo-Saxon culture in the Netherlands? What kind of argument is this? I have also asked written questions about this at an earlier stage. Our Dutch culture and tradition, especially when it comes to the banking sector, is based on the Rhineland model, in which it is not about maximum individual remuneration, but maximum social return. After a. s. r. Also added the remaining bonus of 1.8 million at NIBC. NIBC is a business bank that also used state guarantees during the credit crisis. The ING case is therefore not on its own. There seems to be a pattern. Anyway, now that the dust has descended, we need to look further. For the CDA, something has to be done. The measures mentioned by the Minister in his letter can count on our support. We would like the possibilities to be worked out. But what the Minister is proposing is not the only thing that needs to be done. There is also room for a tooth in the banks themselves. The sector itself has been very quiet over the past few weeks. Perhaps they have spoken to each other in the background, but as far as we are concerned, this should have happened to a greater audience. The overall financial sector should also clarify what is meant by "controlled remuneration policy" and "the final weighting of social support within the Dutch context." That is why, in the second term, I will table a motion asking for the Banking Code to be strengthened on these points. I see there is an interruption, but I also want to close the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u13	Then I suggest you finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u14	I'm closing up, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Minister on his actions so far. With its harsh assessment of ING's behaviour and perhaps with the measures mentioned in the letter, we believe that the only right tone has taken place. In any case, they have led to repentance at the ING summit. Hopefully this is also a wake-up call for the whole sector that it cannot and should not. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u15	The CDA complains here that the financial sector is actually silent at the time when they're grabbing, probably because they're waiting for the weather to happen themselves. But then Mr Ronnes says: I come with an appeal to the financial sector itself to ensure that they become more strict on each other. That's a typical CDA solution. Anyway, we'll hear about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u16	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u17	My question is about something else. The Prime Minister said on 9 March, after the Council of Ministers, that banks are semi-public institutions. Does the CDA agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u18	Banks are institutions which, as far as we are concerned, carry a social responsibility. In view of their role in society, they also have an exemplary role. They should pay particular attention to the feelings that live in society. We should certainly bear in mind that, at the moment when the banks go wrong, people also go wrong, because the bill ends up in the hands of the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u19	I had almost never agreed with the Prime Minister when he said: they are semi-state institutions. Because if things go wrong, the taxpayer always has to pay. I think that you should say: we impose on the directors, for example, to be subject to the Law on Standards of Top Incomes. I will make a proposal in a moment. But the moment you say that they are not actually companies like Shell or Heineken, since they are not saved by the taxpayer, can you leave it to the sector itself and compare it with Shell and Heineken? Because that is the self-regulation you are advocating. That's what's in the Banking Code, which has led to the 3 million we've seen in the last month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u20	I'm not going to answer the question if it's a semi-state institution. What I am going to say is that we must also explicitly appeal to the banking sector itself for its responsibility in this matter. So that's what I'm doing now. What is mentioned in the letter, among other things, and what is also in the proposal of the broad opposition, which has just been mentioned, is that it must be assessed on substantive grounds. We need to see if there are elements that add something in the longer term to preventing the things that we have seen recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr Ronnes took a firm stand in this discussion. He called it a kamikaze action, and I commend him for that. I also found his input in terms of moral judgment. The key question is how much bankers and the financial sector deserve and why the CDA still wants to give that sector the chance to do it again. Even in the statutes, for example those of the a.s.r., it is laid down that there should be controlled remuneration policies. It is also in the Banking Code, but in fact Mr Van der Veer said in so many words: it has to be a bit socially calm, but then we come up with another proposal to increase those top wages. On what basis does the CDA think we can leave it to the sector itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u22	On the contrary, the CDA wants this kind of decision to be better balanced in the future. We've stepped in this trajectory with each other. We see this in the proposal to examine it further, which the Minister put on the table in his letter. We also see this in the proposal put forward by the wider opposition parties. We see that we want to go on a road and that we are looking for an opportunity to set a limit there. At the same time, I would also like to make the point that regulation is sacred. We will have to make the right decisions for the people who are in those boardrooms where the decisions are made. If they take these decisions, they will have to take the social support aspect into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u23	It's always best when no one runs a red light and you don't have to pass a fine, because then everyone does what's morally right. The problem with that miserable financial sector is that it's over and over again it's really over and over again! Do it again. The stock hadn't been sold yet and it wasn't forbidden yet or they did it again. Each time they seize the first opportunity to increase those rewards. We have a law to prevent that. Why not tighten them up instead of hoping they'll come to their senses someday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u24	I am not at this point in time to distance myself from the routes that have been deployed. I just want to make a careful decision on what has been put on the table in the long term. In my opinion, I read in the Minister's letter that he intends to provide a careful explanation of whether and how this could be done. I think that we should also give him the opportunity to do so, both in the case of the opposition parties' proposal, which still has to receive an opinion from the Council of State, and in the case of the information coming from the minister's ministry. Now let us give ourselves time to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u25	Let's continue on the subject of care. I share Mr Ronnes's analysis of the Minister's drive and approach. I congratulate him on that, too. I just don't share his confidence in the banking sector. I have studied the dossier carefully and I can see that at a number of times people have tried to increase that salary. In fact, social outrage was the only reason why people stopped doing so. In contrast to you, I have not been able to observe at what point in time one has thought that this might be very annoying. In fact, the hearing showed that Mr Van der Veer said: "Yes, you know, I'm not even concerned about the moral story. Actually, I'm concerned that we couldn't organize this. But actually, I still support it." Did you see in that hearing that a different sense of standard is developing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u26	I'm kind of inclined to ask a counter-question. Do you think that we should only look at whether legislation is possible and should we stop calling the sector on their own responsibility? For the CDA, it's en-and. We are looking very carefully at what measures we can take, from the political point of view and from the point of view of government, and on the other hand we will continue to address the sector. Those are the responsible people who make the decisions. Those people should not only be able to hide behind the rules, because they will also have to make that moral assessment. And I continue to fight for us to bring that argument to their attention. That's not the only thing; that's what your question is a little bit meant. We certainly want to look at other options too, so: what can we do in the regulation? But we shouldn't stop addressing that sector. That would be the worst thing we can do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u27	The question is, in what order do you do that? It seems that the CDA hopes for results from addressing the sector, while the sector has been shown to have failed. Nota bene in the description of a Commissioner's job profile states that he must have social and political sensitivity. I didn't discover that sensitivity in the pieces. Every time people want to raise the salary again and every time the Minister says: that does not seem useful to me. Or society said: that doesn't seem useful to us. So that's not gonna happen. Does Mr. Ronnes want to give these clubs a course of sensitivity for dummys? So I'm just looking at what's your solution? When I started working at 14, my uncle French said to me: control is to keep honest people honest. That's what he taught me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u28	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u29	And the question is: to what extent can legislation ensure that we keep honest people honest?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u30	In this respect, I will go with you, because that is the path we have set in motion and we are going to do so in a careful way. You choose to move on with the arms over each other and do nothing. The CDA chooses to address the banking sector in parallel. We're not gonna back down to that banking sector, are we? We address that sector that is responsible for, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Azarkan, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u32	Yeah, I kind of lost it now. What things do you do yourself? Are we going to do something about the legislation on top-of-the-line loans for bankers? Are we going to put a government commissioner there by default? What are you gonna do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u33	I have just told you what I think of the content of the letter and the possibilities outlined therein, which are further developed to see what is possible and what is not possible. I think that I have already made it clear to you what we might be thinking about. We have said that we are also looking very clearly at the legislation on which the Council of State's opinion has yet to come back. So I don't think our opinions are that far apart. Only, we are doing something on top of it, because we continue to appeal to the banking sector as well. We are not going to stand by the banking sector with our backs, and we are not going to appeal to the people there on their own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr Nijboer asked Mr Ronnes of the CDA in an interruption: what should happen in terms of content, does the CDA want to step up its intervention? That question actually didn't come up with an answer, but it was also a bit of a what-if question, so I get that. Mr Azarkan's interruption says that we are doing both, so we want to have substantive legislation and we continue to look at the banks, so we are not going to stand by the banks. If there is no substantive answer from the CDA, my question is: how long does the CDA give the banks time to gain that insight? How long is that: not in terms of content but in terms of time? Is that a year? Is that five years? Is that dependent on steps being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u35	Okay. Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u36	I don't think you can put that in time. I think that's something you have to do all the time. Banks must be constantly working on the question: how do I weigh the social aspect? Compare the situation ten years ago with that of today. There are clearly different elements that you take into account. So it's a continuous process. It's not a matter of starting now and finishing in two years. As far as I am concerned, the banks are constantly working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u37	If we listen very carefully and be very quiet, then we can hear the high fives at the banks about the position of the CDA now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u38	I don't understand. In my view, we agree on the path to be taken in the area of regulation. We want to put a little bit more on top of that, and we'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u39	Thank you. Mr Tony van Dijck also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr President, I have just heard this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u41	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u42	... but Mr Ronnes himself cites the example of ING. That plan has been revoked, but we also have a.s.r. He also mentioned that example. And there's also NIBC. Those plans were not withdrawn, because there was too little commotion and too little political pressure at the time. In other words, if there's no commotion, it's okay. A.S.R. It was lucky that that day Halbe Zijlstra quit and that all the attention went there and not to a.s.r. That's why they were able to raise their salary there by 40% or 50%. So no commotion, then it is good for the CDA; if commotion, then you come up with a moral apple. Is that a bit of the CDA's strategy now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u43	Absolutely not. May I remind you that, in my view, it was with Mr Nijboer that I was the first to intervene by at least asking the Minister in writing about a.s.r.? We have now had the answers to this recently with the reply in the letter. The reason I mentioned it in my speech is that, for me, ING is not so isolated, that the broader aspect of remuneration policy in banks needs to be examined and something must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u44	Yes, but the question is whether you liked those answers to your written questions. The Minister replied: I cannot do anything, I leave it to the supervisory board, to that sensitivity antenna and to the shareholders. "I can't do anything"; this minister's got his hands in his hair, so the Chamber has to do something. That is why we have tabled an initiative proposal, but I do not yet hear you say that I wholeheartedly support it, because something needs to be done. Yes, you say something must be done, but then you do not say what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u45	Then I am very curious about where you have been in the last half-hour, because we have talked here about the commitment that is being looked at, what you can do in regulations and what you cannot do in regulations, how you can appeal to banks, how you can activate banks even more. If that is not enough, then I would like to hear what your ideas are and then I am very willing to listen to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u46	In conclusion, I welcome the support of the CDA for GroenLinks' legislative proposal. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u47	We are going to look very seriously at what is going to come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u49	"I therefore urge you to explicitly report sensitive issues in time. No surprises afterwards, especially because I do not want to be forced politically to intervene harshly. I'm just thinking in front of you." On 18 January this minister was at the meeting of the Dutch Association of Banks, where he made an interesting speech: personal, a bit strict but above all with the outstretched hand. "You can expect me not to shoot at the banks for political gain," he promised there. And of course, he also talked about the unrecoverable confidence in the banking sector, just as he clearly indicated on 8 March when he responded to the 50% salary increase for the ING boss. "Excessive," that's what he called that increase. But that increase was coming, he knew it. Because the chairman of ING's Supervisory Board, Mr Van der Veer, had been on tea for a lobby meeting on 21 February. And as with old-boy krentenbread, at the end of the day you report that ING is going to raise the salary. "That is sensitive, dear friend," was the Minister's answer. Was this it in the front that the minister had offered a month earlier? Five days took the storm in which ING's Commissioners managed to steer the bank. Employees were embarrassed and got furious responses, both at work and in private, customers stepped over massively and politics was furious, including our Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. "Banks are semi-public institutions and therefore not comparable to large companies such as Heineken." That's what Rutte said at the press conference after the Council of Ministers on 9 March. According to him, they are of great importance to the economy and investment, but if things go wrong, they depend on the safety net we cough up as taxpayers. That is why, according to him, there is a real difference between the remuneration of Shell's boss and ING's. Never before did I agree with our Prime Minister. It is high time to treat our banks as a semi-government too. He knows the Law standards top incomes. The SP proposes to include the banks. This can be a sectoral standard, such as health insurance companies that already have one. I'll tell the minister to settle that in front. That's not to be surprised afterwards. And that is certainly not playing legal games, as is the case in the letter, which says: I do not know if everything I want to do is allowed by the Council of State. Then Mr Van der Veer. He played here the murdered innocence. Indeed, the then Finance Minister, Wouter Bos, had approved the comparison of remuneration for the bank with a business index. He indicated to the Chamber that the goal is still that 3 million will be achieved for the manager of ING. Can the Minister promise me that this business index will go off the table, that the support ever given by the Ministry will be withdrawn and that he will inform Van der Veer that ING is not comparable to Heineken or Shell, but that ING will be saved by taxpayers, where it does not happen to the beer or oil magnates? Does the Minister agree with the SP that the intention of 3 million for ING's manager really has to be removed? And then there's the little talk from February 21st. I wonder how that goes. Is Mr. Van der Veer calling the Minister as Shell's old friend? Can ordinary citizens be called because that was Mr Van der Veer that day; that is why it wasn't in the public agenda, so call the minister if they have any good ideas? And why could Mr Van der Veer, as a so-called ordinary citizen, lobby this minister to set up a so-called CEO group: the idea that managers of multinationals can consult with the cabinet two to three times a year? They've been able to do that for a long time, haven't they? This cabinet is already putting multinationals above the people, isn't it? People are getting VAT increases and multinationals and investors are getting tax cuts or that tax is being abolished. Mr. Chairman. The lobby is incredibly subtle and it is happening everywhere, but it is precisely the Minister of Finance who should have the cleanest of the cleanest blazing. We already knew that tax advisory practice and business already know very well how to find the ministry. But will we agree here that these kinds of lobbying arrangements by this minister are simply published, so that we know exactly who exactly flattens the door to the ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Last week we were able to wash our ears in a conversation with Jeroen van der Veer. Today's Minister's turn. Jeroen van der Veer regretted the commotion, but defended the raise with hand and tooth. In other words, without commotion, this proposal would have gone ahead. So much for Mr Van der Veer. Left or right, there's gonna be a raise. It's a matter of timing and communication, he said. The minister stands by and looks at it. He was not amused and called the increase excessive and extremely unhappy. So you'd expect this minister to come up with measures, tough proposals. The proposals we have received are weak. It could happen again tomorrow. The Minister sees no opportunity to intervene and therefore leaves it to the supervisory board and shareholders. Nothing's happening. The Minister will not go beyond a moral appeal. How many more apples do we need, I ask this minister. How much commotion is there to create? This is not the first time ING has tried to increase salaries. In 2010 Jan Hommen wanted to give himself a bonus of 1.25 million. This too was withdrawn after social unrest. Wouter Bos was not amused. Two years later, Ralph Hammers wanted to give himself a $1.35 million salary. This was adjusted slightly downwards under political pressure. Jan Kees de Jager was not amused. Another two years later, the CEO's salary was increased by 28%. Minister Dijsselbloem was not amused, but there was nothing he could do. And now this minister, again not amused about the 50% salary increase. This is going off the table again after political unrest. This is the fourth time commotion about salaries at ING in seven years. What does this say about trust? What does this say about the stability of the sector? In 2014, we introduced a bonus ceiling together. I called that a good first step back then. At the same time, however, I have pointed out the danger of circumvention. If you're not allowed to pay more unlimited bonuses, the salaries are gonna explode. The State had not yet withdrawn from a.s.r., or the salaries rose by 2.5 tons. ING wanted to add a million euros and the NIBC's stock market was paid out with a large amount of income bonuses of millions. The grabbing's back on track. Business as usual. There's a long way to go for moral awareness. The realization that their actions have led us to a global crisis. The realization that we have had to keep the sector alive with billions of taxpayers' money. Without state aid, all these men would have been unemployed, they would now be on the bench! The proposals put forward by this Minister are therefore purely symbolic. This doesn't prevent excessive salary increases, Minister. The social commotion around a.s.r. Stayed out of it. I already told you because Halbe Zijlstra quit that day. That was their luck. Is that what this Minister's policy is about? No commotion, then it is good, well commotion, then he calls it excessive; is that the antenna on which this minister sails? Mr. Chairman. There's still a few questions ahead. The Minister calls ING's salary increase excessive. What salary increase wouldn't have been excessive, according to this minister? What's excessive? What's acceptable to him? How will he prevent excessive increases in salaries from being avoided in the future? Does the Minister agree with me that it is undesirable for the bonus ceiling to be bypassed with exorbitant increases in the fixed salary, what happens now? Does the Minister agree with me that stock packages should not be part of the fixed salary? This is based on perverse incentives. And does the Minister agree with me that exorbitant salaries are not in the interests of the customer and not desirable for the stability of the sector? Is it not the role of the regulator to ensure stability and, indirectly, to prevent excessive increases in salaries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tony van Dijck. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Last week, we had a President-in-Office of ING, who felt that the decision to increase the salary from 2 million to 3 million was a bad decision, with the reason that it was a bad decision because he had not succeeded. Collectively, the whole country collapsed. But collectively high fives were given in the boardroom of the financial sector. The major financial crisis has cost the Dutch taxpayer a total of 135 billion and resulted in eight years of austerity and burden increases of some 46 billion. And what do we see? Hosanna in the sector that caused the crisis. Worldwide, salaries and bonuses in the banking sector are back at pre-crisis levels. See ING. See a.s.r. See NIBC. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this teaches us that the sector still cannot bear the luxury of its position and that after the crisis we failed to put things in order. That is why we are making proposals on three points. Suggestions in the field of a hard hammer, a red button. Proposals in the field of civil society. Those are rules within the existing systems. Proposals on the basis. How come this perversion is in there? And finally, we have another bouncer. The red button. First of all, we want to give the banks' works council the right of assent when it comes to the variable and fixed remuneration. The right of assent means that further democratization of remuneration decisions by people who really take the interest of the bank into account. After all, it is its own employer. I'd like a reflection. Then the midfield, within the lines. We do not share the interpretation of the Advisory Council of the Council of State, but we do support the Minister in his three intentions. All three intentions are fine. Let a thousand flowers bloom! Maybe it'll help. In this sense, we also have a great deal of support for the law of GroenLinks. But that is in the playing field and within the existing lines. We've seen bankers always stretch that out. That is because we, politics, have given the financial sector the opportunity to mine their own gold, to print their own money, to fill their own honey pot. They can't handle that luxury. It's come to light. That is why we believe that these first two measures, the red button and the colours within the lines, are not enough. So as a third, we would like to address the root causes that lead to irresponsible self-enrichment. In this we also deviate from the Minister in his letter. Because he says: primarily the sector. And we say, first of all, first of all, that politics is a priority. First of all, where a normal listed company has 30% or more equity, the average bank has around 4%, and perhaps the percentage still goes down. It enables banks to achieve high returns on equity. And that's the measure of salaries and bonuses. In other words, if that's the measure, then you want to attract as much debt as possible. That makes sense. You can't really blame them for that. Secondly, banks have the privilege of creating money. They don't pay for that, but they do have that privilege. That's gonna make for a great build-up of that. After all, it's almost literally money for nothing. Almost, not quite. So it makes sense that they make a lot of that. Thirdly, the banks combine utility and commercial functions and become large. And great is also a measure of reward. So it makes sense that banks want to be as big as possible. There are perhaps three root causes: there are more people who automatically want these bankers to catch as much as possible. They do, and we're powerless. So we have to look at those root causes, too. I like to get a reflection on those root causes. Shouldn't we do something about that as politics? Finally. If banks don't want to hear it, and they clearly don't want to hear it, they should feel it. Where they are insensitive to politics and citizens, they may not be insensitive to runaway customers. So frictionless and effortless switching with retention of songs should be possible. Is the Minister prepared to make it possible to change account number retention? Mr. Chairman. Red button, midfielder, the foundation and easy transition and thus attack the grabbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr. Chairman. The credit crisis is almost ten years behind us. Almost ten years now we are building a new confidence in the financial sector, little by little. Banks need to have a bigger buffer, savers need to be better protected, mortgages need to be understandable again, secret commissions have been abolished, bonuses are limited, and the banking union needs to ensure that taxpayers are no longer at stake if things go wrong. A lot's happened. But, Mr President, many people in the Netherlands have a very different picture. Ordinary people with a home, a job and perhaps children saw their tax dollars disappear in the financial sector in 2008. They've had to tighten the belt for years. And now that there's some money to distribute, they see a top banker standing in front of the line. That is deadly for the trust we have been working on for ten years. That is precisely why the VVD was so angry about ING's intention to increase the CEO's salary by 1 million a year. We are a party to an economy in which companies themselves determine their policies, even when it comes to rewards. However, the social antenna you need for this seems to be completely different from ING. This had nothing to do with the moderate remuneration policy agreed by the banks themselves. It had nothing to do with labour shortages. ING didn't pulsate how shareholders, government and fellow banks thought about it, let alone the customers. It was contempt for society and it reminded me of the exhibitionist self-enrichment, as Wim Kok called it in 1997, when that board of directors ran away with many millions. Or in 2007, when ING even threatened to leave the Netherlands for the same reason. And then, of course, the events since then, which Mr Van Dijck has already described.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mr Azarkan, your last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u57	Already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u58	Yeah, it's going really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u59	You're also very good at counting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u60	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u61	My question to Mr Van der Linde is related to what he said about the supervisory board and specifically about the feeling of the social and also political sentiment. Do you think the Supervisory Board has failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u62	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u63	Maybe you can motivate it or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u64	Then ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u65	No? Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u66	It's just been said that trust has been fatally compromised. It was said that it was deadly for trust. In my opinion, it's gone. Death is dead. It's gone. According to the VVD, the trust is gone. You can't say it's been deadly for trust, but trust is still there. It can't be. There's no such thing. Then you're just bullshit, and I don't want to blame the honourable Member of the VVD for that. So the trust's gone. It no longer exists in the eyes of the VVD. We've established that. The question that then arises is: can we leave it to the sector where there is no confidence? Does the VVD think that we can leave things to the sector...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u67	Yeah, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u68	... while that sector can no longer be trusted in the VVD's own words?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u69	Yes, then we will have a whole discussion about the word 'deadly', but let me at least put it this way: this means years behind schedule. It means that what we have done over the past few years by the general public is simply seen as "they have been doing nicely, but under the line..." and so on. So if we can finish on that, there's years behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u70	A miracle has been done. We've gone from "deadly" to "finished" and "years behind." The question remains: if confidence is put behind years, can we leave it to the sector itself or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u72	It is said that confidence has been put at a disadvantage for years! Can we leave it to the sector, yes or no? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u73	You've already asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u74	I think that is a fair question. I'll tell you why I have that confidence. During that hearing it became perfectly clear that ING was completely alone. The Dutch Association of Banks took a sharp distance. You even heard Mr. Buijink say he was upset. He was also talking about catching up with them. Institutional investors, united in Eumedion, found it unusual that they had not been pulsed. I think that gives me confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u75	One last question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u76	Yeah, one last question. I appreciate your confidence, but I'm getting a little less confidence in the VVD. It was not killed by this remark, but it was put at some distance. Mr Buijink has just said in the letter from the Dutch Banking Association that further measures are not necessary. What kind of trust do you have in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u77	But that doesn't change the fact that he has clearly distanced himself from it on the spot. No, Mrs Leijten, you can find all sorts of things, but the NVB just expected this to be coordinated. Eumedion, the united investors, thought they'd be pulsed. Even a.s.r., which stood there and explained exactly what a complex puzzle that remuneration policy was, with the international context and labour market.... I see Mrs Leijten now as angry as at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u78	Don't respond to that. Finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u79	No, but okay. Even they came under the line at totally different amounts than ING. They're not gonna make it to $3 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u80	A final question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u81	You're always beautiful when you're tough, Mr. Chairman. We should also be so strict in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u82	You will always find a bridge to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u83	I thought it was such an incredibly nice list of Mr Van Dijck of the PVV. ING asks, ING tries, each time it is in the eye of the storm and the confidence is damaged again or killed or put back years or whatever you want to call it. And every time politics doesn't do anything. Such a Buijink of the Dutch Association of Banks speaks shamefully of it, but then says "No, no laws are needed, you know! Don't touch our self-cleaning ability" when that doesn't exist. Does the VVD therefore recognise that politics is ultimately damaging this banking sector, because politics has a late-wave mentality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u84	In the beginning, I tried to explain how much has happened in the last ten years. You can't brush that away. A lot's happened. We have taken all these steps as politicians. We have the strictest policy in Europe, especially in terms of rewards, with bonuses. Then you can't tell me nothing happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u85	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u86	Well, Mr. Chairman, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u87	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u88	Um...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u89	You can't ask another question. You should never do that, and especially not with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u90	Oh, well, you're in charge of the order, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u91	Then she'll have to respond to that. A brief response, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u92	With all the laws that seem to have been built, politics has still allowed you to make an excessive salary proposal of 3 million. This means that politics is partly responsible for the damage the banks do to themselves over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u93	I propose that Mr Van der Linde continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say how wise it is that ING has withdrawn its decision. I'll repeat it again. At least during the hearing, it became clear to me how ING is in the banking landscape alone. I mean not only the NVB and Eumedion, but also the other banks, which came to very different calculations on the spot. a.s.r. It was much lower anyway. The Volksbank is at the bottom of the list. This gives the VVD confidence that the system works more or less and that the supervisory boards simply do their job. We in the Chamber are now faced with the question of how to proceed. The VVD welcomes the fact that the Minister is investigating a number of concrete improvements in the regulatory environment, such as a strengthened clawback. If things go wrong and the taxpayer has to adapt, we will at least address the responsible drivers. But the VVD puts the focus on the company itself. We just want the Supervisory Board to do its job. This means a truly moderate remuneration in the financial sector for which there is social support. And that's hard enough. It was rightly noted in the hearing that the Banking Code does not really provide sufficient guidance. This must include the labour market and the international context. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he would like to consult with the NVB to improve the code on this point. Finally. Do you remember? That sober Dutch Middle East bank? That cheap Postbank? The Dutch banks traditionally have a moderate reward. That was not a question of rules and laws at the time, but of culture. It has to come from the company itself. I hope ING will include this consideration in the selection of new Commissioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u95	I think it is morally beneficial that the VVD should at least express its opinion on this kind of salary increases. In previous periods, Mrs De Vries was more inclined to let the market do its job. I do have questions about the clawback proposals. They were raised, also by group chairman Dijkhoff. What does that really mean? Because we already have clawback legislation. The Entrepreneurship Chamber can also give a ruling in the event of malpractice..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... One can even recover the entire salary. On that Sunday during the campaign I got the feeling of: The Netherlands is angry about banks, so we make a proposal that sounds tough and fortunately nothing so we don't hurt them, and then we show that we stand for something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u96	I'm just looking for the exact question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u97	What is it really?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u98	Well, look. Those clawbacks are all about bonuses now. But if we're talking about salaries of 2 or 3 million, maybe we'd like to get a little more back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u99	Last question, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u100	Yeah, but I also pointed out the Enterprise Room. If a bank is nationalized, the case is brought to the Enterprise Chamber and a mispolicy is established, I can assume that in future directors will also be held financially responsible. That can go even further than just the beaming standard or whatever standard you want to set. So what is really additional to this proposal? The bank must already be nationalized. It has very little material on its hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u101	I think you are asking a logical question, but malpractice is extremely difficult to prove in Dutch law. At least that step was not taken in the acquisition of Fortis Bank Nederland. It might have been set, but it didn't happen, and that was pretty complicated. Then you'd better screw an extra mechanism in the law. More generally, however, my colleague, Mr Dijkhoff, mentioned this as an example, but we asked the cabinet to put together a number of options for us, of which the clawback is only one. That letter from the cabinet is here now. In fact, we are having this debate prematurely, because nothing has worked out. There's nothing for it, but all right, we can talk about this like we always talk about socially important things. I would very much like to wait and see what the government comes up with on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u102	I have two clarifying questions to the VVD. The first one is about the clawback. As a condition for failure, the Minister's letter states State aid or the partial guarantee of the taxpayer. Now we'll have the bail-in and the banking union when it's finished. Then the taxpayer will only be indirectly responsible for those banks if it goes wrong with the banks, especially with the system banks. What conditions does the VVD see for a clawback scheme that really works if it goes wrong with big banks in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u103	This is precisely the type of question we have put to the Minister. This is what we want to have a letter on later on in which these things are put down very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u104	Just before I ask my second question: does that indeed mean that these conditions are not enough to propose a clawback scheme that has teeth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u105	No, I really leave it to the Minister to work out the modality of that. If I respond to that right now, I'm gonna be kicking my ass.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u106	You have saved up all the questions for Mr Van der Linde, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u107	Certainly, because Mr Van der Linde says much more than the representative of the CDA that it is actually up to the supervisory board. He does find one proposal interesting and calls it explicit. But to my questions, how does that work, he doesn't have an answer. I find that striking. The other two proposals contained in the Minister's letter are not dealt with by Mr Van der Linde. Mr Van der Linde said that the Supervisory Board is primarily responsible for remuneration policy, but the Minister points out that the legislator has a role to play. This is the case both in the variable part of fixed remuneration and in the definition of social responsibility in a law and in the question of what the role of supervisors might be. I assume the VVD supports the Minister's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u108	Yes, but the intention of that law is that the supervisory board can simply do its job better. Eventually, under the line, we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u109	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u110	Let me ask you another question. In my view, this legislation is precisely about the fact that the Supervisory Board of ING has not done its job at any time. There has been no proper dialogue on what is actually social acceptance or the social responsibility of banks. This is precisely where the banks have a responsibility, but also the legislator, including the parliament. I hope the VVD agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u111	That's a story on the one hand and a story on the other. You have clearly heard me say that the VVD stands for banks to make their own decisions in the first place. And yes, that includes a legal framework. Anyway, you're asking for the quadrature of the circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u112	This is the familiar reflex of the VVD. A week before the elections in this case, the local elections............................................................................................................................................................ With all that talk and empty promises, you win the election over and over again. Now the VVD is as we know it again. Now the VVD says that it is up to the sector itself and that we are not really talking about it. Because that's what you're saying. The proposals are nothing. I call them weak bites. They don't have anything to do with that $1 million raise. They had nothing to do with it. That could happen again tomorrow. My question is what the VVD will do when ING presents a salary increase of eight tonnes for Mr Hamers next week. What are you guys gonna do as a VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u113	First of all, Mr Van Dijck is putting all kinds of things in my shoes now, while he has heard me say clearly what I think of this increase in the salary at ING. There wasn't a word of Spanish in there. ING just didn't care about society. I made that clear here. So you should not come up with a story of "before the elections you said this and after the elections you said that." We have asked the Minister to set out a number of options. We'll wait them out. There's a law of GroenLinks. We'll just wait and see what the State Council thinks about that. Then we have the whole package in conjunction. On top of that, and I also heard Mr Ronnes say this, we ask the Minister: would you please go and talk to the NVB to improve the Banking Code on this point? Well, then we have a whole package together. And when all the advice is there and everything is worked out, we're gonna debate with each other about what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u114	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u115	Mr President, it is still a weak bite. The question was: what will the VVD do if ING comes up with a proposal next week to raise the salary by eight tonnes? Does the VVD say: we can't do anything and it's up to the supervisory board and supporters? Or does the VVD say: enough is enough, now we support that bill and it is up to the Chamber and this minister who gets a right of veto to decide whether that is proportionate yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr President, next week we will have exactly the same rules as we have this week, so we will do exactly the same. And that helped. Even if you're not about it, you can give your opinion. That is what we have done and it has helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr Snels wishes to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The representative of the VVD mentioned the law of GroenLinks. I would appreciate it if the parliamentary work of a representative of the people would be judged in a slightly different way from that of a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u119	A two-page law, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u120	No, that's then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u121	Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u122	I think it is right to speak with respect for each other, even if you disagree on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u123	Mr President, there is no less respect for it. Let me reassure GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u124	Thank you. Please continue. Or... I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u125	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u126	Yes, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66. And we should not talk about a small debate anymore, because that is what I often hear in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u127	Thank you, Madam President. One great earner is not the other, because where a successful entrepreneur is rewarded for an innovative idea and the risk that he or she has run on his own account, the CEO of a system bank is an employee of a company that cannot go bankrupt. The State is forced to bear the risk here and not least for the savings of 8 million Dutch people. Against this background, we now see that the one employee would improve 50%, while his colleagues would have to do it under the collective agreement with 2%. The justification comes in the form of a flat football imagery. The Supervisory Board particularly regrets the commotion, but remains convinced that the director must earn 3 million. These reactions and this distortion show that the much discussed cultural change in bankers' country may have to begin at all. A change to a culture in which bankers no longer look at politics and customers as annoying thresholds between themselves and business as usual, but a culture in which the reflex with new stricter rules is not to look for new loopholes in the law. Because this is not about rules; this is about public acceptance. Mr. Chairman. The Minister announced three proposals. They are all a step forward as far as we are concerned, but are they sufficient? I have a number of questions about these proposals. First of all, the clawback, getting money back when a bank needs to be saved. This is a positive step, but is sanctions afterwards a justification for significantly increasing wages at the front? Does the Minister agree with us that this is not the intention? In his view, does the threat of ex post penalties really contribute to deterring irresponsible risks? Is the Minister going to settle this well with the Volksbank and ABN in advance by making agreements on remuneration policy at the time of sale? Secondly, the longer holding of the remuneration in the form of shares. During the financial crisis, bankers turned out to be like people, who often lost sight of their own long-term interests. I support the intention, but also here the question: does this force bankers enough to keep the long-term perspective? Thirdly, the bank's public accountability to remuneration policy. Shouldn't this good step go hand in hand with lower barriers for customers to vote with their wallets? Last week, Mr Van der Veer wanted nothing to say about the number of customers that ING lost, but ASN and Triodos were more talkative. Thousands and thousands of new applications came to them, five to eight times as much as usual. If we really want that culture change, we need this pressure from account holders. These are account holders who, like so many of us, have asked the question: can this not be true? As far as we're concerned, customers' pressure is getting even more freer. The lower the threshold, the easier the customer can pay off the bank on malpractice. The switching service, once proposed by D66, VVD and CDA, made that easier, but a customer-related account number would be even better. Is the Minister prepared to make this possible and to make the bank account number the property of the customer? We're considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. The success of Triodos and ASN shows the added value of competition. Competition leads to higher prices and better service. New providers wake up a sector, even if they focus on one specific service. It is strange that newcomers often have to meet the same conditions as a bank that offers a lot of services, from mortgages to savings and payment accounts to SME financing. That is also the reason why the government agreement has agreed to a new banking licence. Is the Minister prepared to work it out as a matter of urgency and will he be able to share a proposal with the Chamber this summer? Finally, Mr President. Each plea for the extreme increase in the ING summit was about losing talent. We would lose talent to America and the City, where mega-salaries are common. But by now we know the joke of the banker who heard todeledokie and left for America. He didn't go at all. The differences in salaries between countries are enormous. So the question is whether there is such a thing as an international market for top bankers. Therefore, my appeal to the financial sector is to exchange this empty threat for a new contract with the society of a sector that keeps pace and knows and feels its responsibility. Thank you. I believe there were no more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u128	Yeah, they all made it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u129	Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u130	I don't know. I call Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u131	Mr President, thank you. ING Commissioner Jeroen van der Veer said: our top man plays in the Honor Division, but we pay him at Jupiler League level. If only he had listened to one of the greatest Dutch philosophers, Johan Cruijff. He said, "I've never seen a bag of money make a goal." Mr. Chairman. Some bankers live in a parallel universe, totally unsung from reality. In that thin air of self-expression, wonderful ideas arise. This turned out to be the case in 2003, when PvdA icon Wim Kok, as ING Commissioner, gave the entire board of directors a 584% salary increase. This turned out to be in 2008, when the bankers' greed caused a global crisis. This proved to be the case in 2010, when the 2010 bonus was not paid out until after social unrest. This turned out to be the case in 2014: the smoke of the last euro of state aid had not yet been increased, or one immediately started to increase the top salaries: €400,000 fixed, €300,000 variable. That turned out last month, when Commissioner Jeroen van der Veer proposed to his top man Hammers a raise going to the 3 million. The conclusion? ING has a chronic lack of social and political awareness and has fun with society and the minister, unless they are caught. This became painfully clear when Van der Veer was a guest here last week. On the one hand there were eleven indignant MPs, who were united in their critical judgment and on the other hand, in some sort of other universe or in a parallel world, Mr.Van der Veer was sitting. I found it appalling that, after all the social uproar, Mr Van der Veer still made a plea for the need for such monstrous rewards. He said that the idea of these rewards and European standards had been whispered to him by ministry officials. I see the Minister shaking head, but I ask him the question: Is that correct, Minister? Did one of your officials say at any time: do you see if you can compare that with some sort of European survey and see if you can justify it? Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Veer's actions confirmed what we have actually seen for a very long time: self-regulation by banks will never work in the area of remuneration. DENK considers it essential that the Minister intends to intervene through the three proposed measures. I do have some questions for the Minister. Why exactly did he come to these measures? Has he considered any other options? We would like to see these opportunities, including the feasibility of these measures, in the context of transparency. Another proposal is whether, through you, I am asking the Minister, President-in-Office of the Council, to present to all system banks a government commissioner whose specific task is to monitor these rewards in the light of social and political sensitivity. Has ING complied with the conditions for State aid? I read in the Minister's letter that one of the conditions for that state aid was the development of a sustainable remuneration policy. Does the Minister consider that ING has succeeded? And does the Minister think that ING's Supervisory Board failed because it did not take sufficient account of this social context? And finally, what is the state of the minister's social and political antenna? You wrote that you were informed on 21 February, but you didn't ask through. Why not? Mr. Chairman. The world of Commissioners and Directors is too much intertwined. Drivers themselves are often commissioners at other companies and there is mutual dependence. That is not a basis for a sharp and fair wage negotiation. No wonder those rewards are sky high. That is at the heart of the problem! That's why the reward of the top of the company is totally out of proportion to the reward of the workplace. Wages in the workplace are negotiated in a collective agreement, fighting for every euro. The top salaries are often negotiated in friendly conversations and in the presence of champagne, some lobster soup and a good cigar. Afterwards it is always legitimized by pointing to others who deserve even more, also called Blaricum syndrome. Mr President, I will conclude. Previously, DENK suggested working with a kind of coefficient, namely that the top man should not earn more than twenty times the average employee's salary. Is this Minister prepared to investigate? If so, we can call it the "Hoekstracoefficient" as far as DENK is concerned. Surely that's a great honor, Minister? Then you will not enter the history books as a footnote but as a coefficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u132	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u133	But Mr. Paternotte promised me an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u134	No, he doesn't. Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u135	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is overweight in the Dutch banking sector. Almost nowhere is the sector as large as in the Netherlands, compared to the size of the underlying economy. The same applies to individual banks. Dutch banks also have large debts, which could cause them problems in the event of relatively small losses. If Mr Van der Veer says that ING's boss should earn an honorary division salary, because ING needs to become a European system bank that the Netherlands can be proud of, then I say: why? Why should we be proud of a bank with a leverage ratio of a factor 25? Why should we be proud of a company that in bad times can't stop its own pants? And what justifies a 50% increase in wages? Van der Veer stated that this increase in salary was not unreasonable at all, especially when comparing the salary with top wages from other European companies. I ask the Minister: how do we prevent a tunnel vision at the top? How does he look at the myth that top talent would leave if we didn't give out exorbitant salaries? Do we really think there is a quality difference between someone who earns EUR 1 million and someone who earns EUR 3 million? Mr. Chairman. The benchmark with European companies is a self-fulfilling prophecy. What is the measure, and which companies do you compare with at all? Does the Minister share the view that the banking sector and the real economy are incomparable? Would we not want to compare our banks much more with companies that have values of reciprocity and Rhineland-Palatinate? In what way will the Minister encourage the organisation of conflict at the summit, and how can we work towards greater sensitivity to public support? Mr. Chairman. Even now, after the crisis, the framework for the financial sector is not complete. Although banks now have more capital and more liquidity, the expectation that the government and thus the taxpayer will continue to support them. This is also one of the difficult implications of the opposition's proposal for an initiative. They propose that wage increases be moderated by the politicians for those banks who can expect to be saved with taxpayers' money if necessary. I appreciate the content and speed of the opposition's work, but the Christian Union believes that it should not be necessary for private companies, banks or any other business to be saved by taxpayers. If you are an entrepreneur, you carry the financial risk of entrepreneurship. Already in advance as a government promise that you will save the bank if it threatens to fall, is a complicated and, as far as I am concerned, undesirable effect of the otherwise sympathetic opposition proposal. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister to be open to these suggestions and possibly other ideas, for example, as Mr Azarkan has just mentioned, which are still emerging during this research process. Mr. Chairman. According to an IMF paper from 2016, it is still unclear whether and how banks should be helped in times of crisis. In any case, supervisors in the United States have concluded that many of the plans made by banks themselves are unbelievable. Public interference with the banks remains therefore necessary in the coming period. It is necessary to work hard to reduce the chance that the taxpayer is again in trouble at the next dip, for example through higher capital requirements. There is no reason why we should want to subsidise a bank. Let us be clear: as long as the government has to guarantee our savings through the deposit guarantee scheme, because without that guarantee people have insufficient confidence in a bank, the government has the right to find something about this sector. Because the bank acts in confidence, and if that trust isn't there, you're not a Champions League and you're not a Jupiter League.. then you just don't practice your business as a banker well. Mr President, to conclude, I welcome the options which the Minister intends to have examined. This extends public intervention in remuneration policy and holds directors personally responsible when taxpayers pay for losses from failing banks. I have the impression that the Minister, with his three options, is really looking at the limits of his legal and political room for manoeuvre, and I appreciate that. He mentioned the salary increase for ING's CEO on the day itself as excessive, and I think it is commendable that the Minister also came so quickly with a written response with options to be examined. In doing so, the Minister shows that he is a minister not only of words but also of deeds. And that, Madam President, is Champions League material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u136	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. This was therefore the first term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u137	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u138	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the increase in the remuneration of the chairman of the board proposed by ING's Supervisory Board. On 8 March, it was announced that ING's Supervisory Board wanted to increase ING's permanent remuneration by 50%. There was a great deal of social and political indignation about this, as many Members of your Chamber have already pointed out. In that outrage, your Chamber was united. As far as I am concerned, this was an excessive increase. I also informed ING myself of this and made a moral appeal to withdraw this proposal. On 13 March 2018, the Supervisory Board indeed withdrew the proposal for a salary increase. As mentioned earlier, this decision is, as far as I am concerned, the only correct outcome. This excessive increase affected the public support for banks, just in a time. I have always mentioned this in all my talks with the banks............................................................................................................................................................................... As far as I am concerned, that is the important task of the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u139	Four questions also apply to the government's term. The Minister is about a minute away and Mrs Leijten already has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u140	I have already put my question to the Minister on the further written questions we put yesterday in preparation for this debate. Where exactly does the minister get that it's been revoked? Mr Van der Veer has made it very clear that they are still heading at 3 million, because that amount comes from a comparison of international companies. He says it might take a little longer now, but it's not off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u141	That's not my impression. My impression, which I base both on a conversation with ING the evening before the press conference and at the press conference itself, is that the decision is off the table. Mr. Chairman. I had stuck to my point about the only right outcome and the importance of regaining trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u142	Following on from the previous speaker, we also concluded that it was a bad decision because it failed. Mr Van der Veer supported that. He also says in so many words: we are still working on it. I just heard the Minister say that this is not his impression. Is the Minister prepared to give ready wine and confirm it to us in a letter? Is he prepared to ask Mr Van der Veer again if the decision is off the table and to inform the Chamber about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u143	I would like to refer to the press conference that ING itself gave. That Tuesday I lost the date for a moment. ING sent out a press release and was informed early in the morning that that proposal was off the table. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u144	If the Minister says he is, it is in the Acts. That is also a concrete statement, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u145	Yes, but the essence of what is outlined here is also in relation to the debate we had last week, which showed that perhaps it is not the case that there is confusion about it. There is a slight difference between what the Minister may think to be necessary and what the Chamber considers to have concluded. It may therefore be worthwhile for the Minister to ask again and then to inform the Chamber. It is not so much what ING's press release says, but what his assessment is of what he has heard from ING. Is it true that the proposal is off the table and that we will not be getting a new proposal for this type of increase in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u146	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u147	For the sake of clarity: this has been said to me and this is also communicated by ING itself the next day to my best knowledge and observation. In my view, the Chamber had an explicit exchange of views with Mr Van der Veer on this issue in the round table or in the hearing, and it was also said that the proposal was on the table. Then, of course, there was a broader discussion with the Chamber about what the Chamber considers desirable and what ING considers desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u148	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u149	Mr. Chairman. I have just said that I think it is the only outcome that the Supervisory Board has reached its verdict to withdraw that increase. My perception is that the moral appeal, of your Chamber but also much wider, has worked. Mr Nijboer has been very vocal in this, as has Mrs Leijten and many others in the Chamber. I think the customers, who have not been referred to for nothing a number of times, have also played a role in this. But it was also wider. From the political point of view, all kinds of signals have been sent out. I cannot judge what has ultimately been the decisive factor, but you can see from this that a moral appeal and social indignation do indeed have an effect. Mr President, I would like to put the follow-up questions in three blocks: firstly, on ING, secondly, on the sector, on which many questions have been asked, and thirdly, on the announcement of the measures I have sent to your Chamber. Let me also say a few words about the GroenLinks bill in a procedural sense. Mr. Chairman. The first question was that of Mrs Leijten on the proposal. I think I just answered it. The second question was also from Mrs Leijten. She asked me to cancel the support for the benchmark used by ING. It is important to highlight the importance of this 2010 benchmark. My predecessor Bos used it then. I really want him here... 'Protecting' may not be the right term, but I would like to make it quite clear what he intended: pay and salary. In that period, ING's salary fell by many dozens of percent, let me remind you of that. That was the thought behind that benchmark. As regards Mrs Leijten's question, I do not currently have any formal authority to withdraw my support to a benchmark used by ING.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u150	Let me look at the Minister's classification of his contribution, including with regard to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u151	Mr President, I am in block one on ING, page three, and I have arrived at Mrs Leijten's third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u152	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u153	ING says that we have made an international comparison based on companies and that is what we base our remuneration policy on. That could not be a surprise for anyone, not even for the Ministry of Finance, because that was agreed. And the Banking Code also states that a benchmark must be created. But ING compares that benchmark with Shell and Heineken, whereas those are other types of companies because Shell and Heineken will never be saved by taxpayers. It would therefore be very good for the Minister to say here that this international comparison, or a comparison with companies of a different nature than the banks, is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u154	I very much agree with the last point made by Mrs Leijten. I want to mark that, too. It will, I think, also come back to the debate a few times. What is the fundamental reason why we are having this debate? The fundamental reason we have this debate is that banks have a different responsibility and a different role in the financial sector and that system banks, as we saw during the crisis, cannot ultimately afford to let them go bankrupt. That is the fundamental difference with other companies. I have mentioned the cookie factory in this context, but it also applies to the beer brewer and others mentioned by Mrs Leijten. So I very much agree. But I also want to be specific about the benchmark. It is a benchmark of 2010. At the time, my predecessor Bos intended to have a conversation about the moderation of wages. You must imagine, Mr President, through you to Mrs Leijten, that the salaries of banks were substantially higher then than those of other companies. So it was also a very logical comparison from the point of view of reducing salaries further. I think it is wise that my predecessor did so in that way. And even if I didn't think it was wise, at least I was responsible for it. However, I do not yet have a formal authority to withdraw my support, because ING uses that benchmark. What I would like to say to Mrs Leijten is that in the conversation, not so much with ING as with the Dutch Association of Banks, it is stated that it is obvious that if you compare yourself to something, you have to compare as many apples as possible with apples. Mrs Leijten and I very much agree on the difference between normal companies and system banks, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u156	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to ask Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan whether ING has complied with the conditions for State aid and whether ING has complied with the requirements of sustainable remuneration policy. Yes, in 2009-2010, as a result of the state aid, the issue of adjusting ING's remuneration policy was discussed. The goal, as I just said, was moderation. The new remuneration policy adopted by shareholders in 2010 moderated the overall maximum remuneration of the chairman of the board of directors of 56% and moderated 50% for the other directors. Another question from Mr Azarkan is whether my predecessor has actively steered the choice of benchmark. I think I have already said the most about it, but let me be completely in line with Mr Azarkan. The benchmark has been discussed over the period 2009-2010. The goal was moderation. I think I've just said it quite specifically. At the time, salaries in the financial sector were higher. So if you wanted them down, it made sense to make a benchmark with non-financial institutions. That's what the world's really changed into. For the record, the benchmark has become a European peer group established by ING itself. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u157	Were you finished with Mrs Leijten's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u158	Mr President, there are still a few in this block alone. You are aware of my habit of wanting to answer Mrs Leijten very precisely and completely. You know I always have a separate folder of Van Dijck. I almost got there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u159	Good. First, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the point of comparison: I can remember, I would also like to look at my colleagues, Mr Van der Veer, who said twice that the suggestion to compare it in a European context, whether you call it Euro Stox 50 or whatever, was made at the ministry by officials. I specifically asked about that. I'll take a look at my colleagues, too. I heard that twice during that hearing, or else we should take a look at the report. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u161	We also looked at that hearing, of course. The officials have really wanted to be so complete on this Easter weekend, I might add that to find out as precisely as possible what has changed at what time. That is exactly what I have just described, namely that there has been official but also political contact over that benchmark at that time. The idea behind this benchmark, but I say it for the third time, has been a very logical one from my predecessor Bos, who had the aim of wage moderation. That salary has gone down quite a bit, so I also understand why both political and administrative efforts were made at that time. At the same time, I understand Mrs Leijten very well. She says: listen to me, the world has changed, and besides, banks are a different kind of institution, a fundamentally different type of institution, given their system responsibility than, for example, beer brewers or........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u162	However, just to be very clear on this point. I certainly had the impression that Mr Van der Veer referred to the suggestion made at the Ministry in order to justify that wage increase. This has been a different conversation than the Minister has indicated at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u163	No. We have tried to be as careful and as precise as possible, as far as that remains to be verified. I have not said for nothing before that 2010 in the discussion about the rewards is about the prehistory, because the bonus legislation is from 2015. It's been a long time. It is in and shortly after the first part of the crisis. There has been contact at a number of times and I have tried to answer the questions in the letter sent to your Chamber as carefully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u164	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u165	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten referred to the fact that I spoke with Mr Van der Veer about a CEO group and asked if it would be forthcoming. That discussion with Mr Van der Veer was exploratory and no follow-up was given. Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan asked how I was informed. I think I was explicit about that in the letter too. First of all, it is up to the Supervisory Board to decide on a salary change. I had a discussion with Mr Van der Veer on a completely different subject. He wasn't with me either. I'll say a few words about it in his capacity as ING's President-in-Office. An announcement was made at the end of the conversation. Then, on the afternoon before ING would give the press conference, it was announced what size it would be. This is, of course, about the measure and this is about the content. I was informed about this in the evening and the next morning I asked to contact ING and the Dutch Association of Banks even before I got to the Ministry from the car. Mrs Leijten referred to my speech at the Dutch Association of Banks. On the contrary, I put that speech online from the point of view of transparency. In my view, I have been very explicit about the fact that I am talking about restoring confidence. In my view, that is exactly the subject of the Chamber's concern. What I share with Mrs Leijten is that we still have a long way to go there. It's painful and annoying, but true. Then I'll get to my public agenda. That was another follow-up question from Mrs Leijten. She asked why the deal wasn't in it. I can be very clear about that, too. Finance policy is that only the names of organisations or companies that have an appointment with me are included in the public agenda. We do not mention the names of the company's representatives. This consistent policy has been in place since 2016. Mr President, I saw a false move in front of me by Mr Snels, but I shall continue with Mr Van Dijck's question. He said that exorbitant salaries are not in the customer's interest and asked what my reaction is to that. I very much agree with Mr Van Dijck. If something does not contribute to social acceptance, which I believe is exactly what we want to achieve with each other here, then it is excessive rewards. The problem with banks is much greater. I am going to say a few words in the direction of Mr Nijboer, but I think Mr Van Dijck was quite right to refer to it. It is, of course, a much broader issue, but salaries are an important and very sensitive part of it. I will say something about this broader issue in a moment, but I think it is and-and. Mr Van Dijck then asked what an increase in wages would be acceptable. I think we really need to be in there for a while. That is up to the supervisory board to establish, but I think that everyone here has been certain that this was excessive, that this amount in euros, this percentage was excessive and simply does not pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u166	I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Snels, who was there earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u167	It is clear that the Minister was displeased with the planned salary increase as such, but it was also about informing. I noticed that the Minister also wrote in answers to Parliamentary questions that he was unsatisfied with the way in which information was provided. That raises the question to me, apart from the proposals contained in the legislative proposal, for example, whether the Minister himself would agree that, especially in the case of system banks, the supervisory board should actually inform him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u168	In terms of debate technique, it is of course extremely intelligent what is happening here. I have divided my speech into three blocks. I said that I would say something procedurally at the end about the GroenLinks bill. I am going to do that, but I want to do so in more detail with the Chamber in a moment. I am going to give my opinion on GroenLinks' proposal in the right way. I respect and appreciate this encouragement to say something about it already, and I can also imagine it, but I think I have to control myself in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u169	Sure, but apart from the legal implications... Look, you yourself suggest you're unhappy with the way you've been informed. So, regardless of the legal significance and regardless of the proposals that are being made, I can imagine that as Minister of Finance, especially because you are system responsible, you would appreciate the fact that committees of Commissioners who come up with proposals for remuneration inform you in a more accessible and earlier way than at present, because you yourself are displeased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u170	If you don't look out for Mr. Snels, you will slowly but surely be drawn up the slippery ice. Of course, I have to watch for that. He is right, however, that I was not satisfied with the way I was informed. Mr Snels probably can also imagine that, because this is, of course, precisely about the measure. It is, of course, precisely that amount. In all cases, of course, it remains the responsibility of the Supervisory Board. Let me be very clear about that. As far as the rest is concerned, on the things that should go through my office or not, I am highly recommended for the exchange of views that will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u171	I do not think it is fair to the Supervisory Board, because on the one hand the Minister says that a 1 million increase in salary is excessive, but what is excessive, he leaves it to the Supervisory Board. In other words, this supervisory board found 1 million a reasonable amount. That's why they suggested it. They were planning to present it to the shareholders. This minister, this Chamber, the whole society thinks it is excessive, but this minister does not say what he would not find excessive. That's not fair. Then he must also say: listen, I would have found five tons reasonable, or seven tons or eight tons or four tons. It doesn't matter. But if the Minister does not define what he thinks is a reasonable amount that a CEO should earn from this bank and what the salary increase might be, then he actually sends the Supervisory Board into the woods without tools, and that is not fair. 'Cause can I tell the minister the following? There's a lot of difference. Achmea's CEO makes 1.5 million dollars. That of Nationale-Nederlands 2 million. But that of a.s.r. has to do with seven tons. Rabobank's gonna make a million bucks. And I have a whole list here. In other words, there's a lot of variation in what these CEOs all deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u172	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u173	This minister calls this salary increase disproportionate, but he does not want to say what he would consider reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u174	With all the presentations I had made of this debate, I did not expect Mr Van Dijck to take it up here for ING's supervisory board and the huge dilemma that he apparently faced. But I still want to be very steady. I know that list too. I think that list gives the first insight into what appears to be socially normal. The second thing I want to say about it is this. That is not in vain in my letter on measures to be explored. The following is crucial for an institution that is so different from an ordinary enterprise. By the way, I think that an ordinary enterprise should also take account of what society thinks is normal. But, as Mrs Leijten said, it is precisely a company with such a special responsibility that will have to be sure of the social impact of these very sensitive issues. I really think that is up to the supervisory board. It's not up to me to throw sums out of the loose wrist here. But I know very well what Mr Van Dijck says, namely that there are great differences, while the differences between those banks are much less significant in some respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u175	For the record, I am not defending the Supervisory Board. If it's up to me, salaries just rise with the collective agreement. Give the entire staff 1.7%; then everyone deserves an increase of 1.7%, including the board of directors, the CEO and you name it. That's fair. But here's what's important to me. This minister says 1 million is excessive. If I ask what this minister thinks is reasonable, he will not answer, but will return the ball to the Supervisory Board. That's where the ball's coming from!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u176	No, I'll put the ball where it belongs. It is the supervisory board that is responsible and it is the supervisory board that has to consider how society looks at these things. I think it is wise that we should make the important distinction between, let me say, normal companies and system banks. As far as I am concerned, however, it is up to every Commissioner to consider the social context as well. But I'm standing here talking about banks. I think that the supervisory boards of banks should want to take this into account in particular, especially when it comes to system banks, not only because it is sensible in terms of content, but also because it may be clear by now how extremely sensitive this issue is in society and politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u177	Third question, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u178	A.s.r. has also given a salary increase of two and a half tons and there was no commotion about that. Apparently, that's socially accepted. That Halbe Zijlstra quit that day and that it didn't get much publicity, I leave it in the middle. Surely it cannot be that this minister's antenna is: if there is unrest, then it is excessive, if there is no social unrest, then it is acceptable? That can't be the antenna, can it? This Minister is responsible for the stability of the sector. Unrest is bad for the stability of the sector, so I think the Minister should give the sector a hand in ensuring that stability. He should not say: it is up to the supervisory board; look what you do and how it falls into society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u179	This was a statement by Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u180	In my view, there is one point that Mr Van Dijck and I agree on. I would like to highlight that, because that is important to highlight with each other. Apart from the specific commotion of the moment and from what is happening at that time.That is what he is saying and I agree with him.He is of course right that it is more important to ask you what social acceptance is. That's exactly why I had them call me that morning when I heard those amounts. That was well before I had the debate here and said what I thought in the Chamber and in the press. A.s.r. This is a rather different example, but I have also asked you to let us know what we think about it. Mr Van Dijck thinks that this is small, but I think that percentage is quite a significant step. I have also stated this in response to questions from Mr Nijboer and Mr Ronnes, among others. I think that is a significant step, which is taken remarkably quickly after the absence of State aid. So I might still be a little more armored than Mr Van Dijck. But I very much agree with him that it cannot be that the fact that something dominates the news on that day makes it possible for us to have a debate on it with each other. And for the record: when I let ING and the NVB know what I thought about it on that morning, of course I had no sense of the commotion that would come up afterwards. But to be honest, I think it did help that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u181	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u182	Then I come to the second block on the sector and specific rewards, and to a number of other questions. Mr Ronnes and Mr Van der Linde asked me whether the Banking Code should be improved with regard to the role of the Supervisory Board in remuneration policy. I can certainly imagine. That code is up to the sector itself, but it seems to me to be a subject that belongs very much to the growing list of issues that I should like to discuss with the sector. Mrs Leijten asked about the comparison with, for example, beer brewers. I think I answered that question. Mr Paternotte asked whether I would also agree with ABN AMRO and the Volksbank on the remuneration after privatisation. Also, for the record: when I am no longer a shareholder, I am no longer talking about the level of remuneration of ABN AMRO's board of directors. It is primarily up to the supervisory board and new shareholders to judge, also in the light of the social indignation that has now been expressed. But Mr Paternotte will be able to imagine that at the moment it is about doing things that are socially responsible. I am, of course, also talking to the bank about the future; not about the future that is very far away, because that may also have little to do with the current Commissioners. At the Volksbank it is different, because of course it is still in state hands. As I indicated in the answer to the parliamentary questions, a decision will only be taken on what we are going to do with the Volksbank when the company is ready. I have made it clear on several occasions that this future is a subject that concerns many people in this Chamber, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u183	You're right to a.s.r. On. Cold six months after they're no longer state-owned, you'll see these percentageally massive increases in salary. On Mr Van Dijck's list it may not be that bad, but it was a lot of things, and it was also a broad board. We do not want to experience this with ABN, and we do not want to experience it with the Volksbank, if it is privatised. So is that true for you, too? At some point, of course, you will be speaking to ABN's new President-in-Office. And if it cannot be legally established, do you not want, albeit informally, to have the assurance that we are not going to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u184	A guarantee is something you legally bind someone to. I have just said that this cannot be done at the moment that ABN AMRO is no longer a state bank. But Mr Paternotte is right: the moment I have a discussion with ABN AMRO's candidate-president, I will, of course, also talk about social embedding. Of course, it is very obvious that reward is an important part of this. By the way, and I'm going to go into that in a moment: it's a much broader conversation I want to have. Bonuses are a very sensitive part when it comes to social embedding, but it is about a broader file. Just think about what we all exchange about interest rate derivatives, mortgage-free redemptions and all kinds of other things that may not be legally mandatory, but which politics does have views on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u185	I fully agree with the Minister that CSR is much wider. But if we think that, as long as we have something to say about it, a member of the supervisory board of such a bank that should have a social antenna, then we also agree that this means that we should have something like that at a.s.r. It's been decided a month ago, not to go through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u186	I can only agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u187	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u188	Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Dijck asked whether I find the circumvention of the bonus ceiling undesirable. I very much agree with him. At least, I think I agree with him. He asked me the question, but I think it was in his question that he felt it was undesirable, and I think so. I would like to look at the use of the bonus ceiling when evaluating the bonus policy. That was also the logic behind postponing this evaluation a little bit, because over the last few weeks, if I may put it that way, I have learned a lot about the retention bonus in several areas too, and I want to ensure a proper evaluation on that point too. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins asked about the prevention of tunnel vision. He also asked about my perspective on the idea that top talent would disappear without high reward. The first part of the question, of course, has to do with culture and trust. I very much agree with him that you cannot regulate everything by means of the law, however much you would like it to be, because of course we often look for it as a political one. The law is our instrument. This applies to us as a cabinet, but also to you as a chamber, because you are a legislator. No matter how well you try to arrange it, it always stays that you can't always get a grip on all the facets you might want to. This is, by the way, the case in a number of areas. Culture and trust are therefore crucial. This is up to the banks themselves. My impression is that you should want to force, seduce, stimulate and enthuse banks to engage in conversation with society. Because having a dialogue on this subject with people on the street, with the works council, with other employees and with customers provides me with a lot of insights into the way society looks at this problem. This may be a more general answer, but also in order to avoid tunnel vision it is always important to look for different opinions. As far as I am concerned, the supervisory board and the banks should do so widely in society. Mr. Chairman. Then the question about the idea that top talent would disappear without high rewards. We are going to include this in the evaluation, but let me say it very carefully, because I really want to do justice to that evaluation. My impression is not that there are such problems that this evaluation should have been done earlier. Then I guess I'll put it right and carefully. Mr Azarkan asked me to examine whether I saw anything about the Hoekstracoefficient and the bandwidth between the top pay and the employees. He raised the fear of a footnote in history. If I may take some time off: when Mr Bolkestein was once asked how he wanted to go into history, he said 'as a footnote'. So there are also things you might wish for. But let me also answer the thought behind that question. The Corporate Governance Code states that the bandwidth between top remuneration and average employees must be made public. I think that'll help. By the way, it is remarkable how much these relationships, especially in the Anglo-Saxon world, but to a lesser extent also in the Netherlands, have gone apart over the past 50, 60 or 70 years. So this transparency helps. A legislative proposal from me and my colleague for legal protection also includes this transparency. The cabinet wants to focus on transparency first. A fixed bandwidth is not what we should want at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u189	I would like to return to the point of culture at the top and preventing tunnel vision. The Minister is right to say that there is a need for as many different signals as possible to come together at the summit so that a good decision can be taken. We all know that as much diversity as possible on different axes, male and female, young and old, at the top is very important in order to achieve sound decision-making. Eventually, the decision ends up with a number of men with ties like the minister and me, but from a generation above us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u190	It is becoming very dangerous what Mr Bruins is implying!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u191	Does the Minister have the impression that there is sufficient diversity in this sphere of Commissioners to make decision-making sound? Is there sufficient different input to achieve sound decision-making?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u192	That is a very good question from Mr Bruins. I have often exchanged with the Chamber when it comes to state participations, but also when it comes to other subjects, that I have a deeply rooted belief in the importance of diversity. With diversity you can prevent tunnel vision and groupthink, as it is so beautifully called. Of course, you can never completely rule that out, but diversity does help: diversity in gender, diversity in background and diversity on a number of other indicators. It is more the responsibility and the subject of the minister of OCW than of myself, but we have exchanged more often that we can improve this in many places in the Netherlands, but certainly also in the world of companies and certainly in banks. I very much agree with Mr Bruins. I'll put something next to it. Of course, you can try to increase the diversity within a supervisory board. That helps. But besides that, you should at least want to have the conversation with all those who are by definition not at the table. Think of customers. Think of other employees. Think of other stakeholders. They are not at the table, and it is impossible to give them all a place on a board of Commissioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u193	Mr. Azarkan. Or Mr. Snels. I don't know. Who was there before? Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u194	I am nevertheless disappointed in the Minister's response. That also shows little ambition. I'm gonna back up my colleague Van Dijck. You can say, of course, that I disapprove of the EUR 1 million. In this case, you can talk about setting a standard for the number of times a top man can earn the average salary. From the government, from the political point of view, there should be a standard idea in this respect. At the moment, I believe that within AEX companies, the ratio is 170: a top man earns 170 times the average salary. Shouldn't that be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u195	I note that this subject inspires Mr Azarkan. However, I would like to stress that transparency does indeed have an important role to play. Think back to what has sparked off this debate: the combination of transparency and then a moral appeal, which, incidentally, has been made very emphatically throughout the Chamber. Transparency therefore has a very important role to play in this regard. We're gonna work on that law. I think it makes sense to take into account that we are going to evaluate that law. I do recognize the point made by Mr Azarkan. Moreover, it is a trend which is broader than that of the banks alone. I have not prepared the figures for the Netherlands, but I have seen the figures for the United States. Then you will see that from 1950 to 1990, from 1990 to 2000 and then from 2000 to the present, there is an ever-increasing distortion of growth. I do not have the figures for the Netherlands at the moment. I think transparency helps, but as much as political walhalla seems to be able to spread a Cornerstra coefficient across the country, I don't think I should do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u196	Your last question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u197	Yeah, that's fast, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me to. I'd still like to see it in a slightly larger context. The analyses show that in the last 35 years the disposable assets of the average worker or employee in the Netherlands have hardly increased. On the other hand, the profits of large shareholders have tripled. That does morally something to our society. And then you see that companies are exempt from certain taxes by the Cabinet. That is not good for the support of our society. And so you get these kinds of reactions. If people see that exorbitant salaries are being paid, this transparency will give them the opportunity to cancel their bank accounts. But it shouldn't come to that. So I ask the Minister also from a moral point of view whether it should be otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u198	I have really tried to respond as carefully as possible to Mr Azarkan's question. Maybe I can put one more data point next to that. It is good to realize something about increasing salaries. One of the things that struck me was that, apparently, before the crisis, ING had a salary of 6 million. That's exactly the discussion about who you want to compare with. So it is not entirely correct to say that salaries have only risen in all cases, but I do recognise what Mr Azarkan says, namely that it is wise to also look at the difference between what the ordinary worker deserves and what the summit deserves. Moreover, it is also important to look at average salaries, which are much higher in banks than in some other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u199	I tried to listen carefully to what the Minister said about the assessment of bonus legislation. I have a very enlightening question about that. If I understand correctly, the Minister recently sees things happening that he learns from and that need to be taken into account in the evaluation. Now I also have the impression that there are more and more variable components in the fixed part of the salary. That's some kind of bypass of bonus legislation. Now, I understand the Minister wants to be careful, but isn't there a problem right here? We see things happening in the bonus legislation that actually do not fit into the legislation, we want to understand what is happening and at the same time we want to prevent it from growing completely unevenly. Is there not a trade-off between understanding what is happening and taking any measures that the Minister himself is considering? How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u200	It is extremely careful here, because if I take into account what has been said in the newspapers about GroenLinks' own-initiative proposal, it is precisely the variable components that are at stake here. As far as the variable components are concerned, I also have some homework to do in the field of evaluation, as well as the task in the proper form of state law to return to my appreciation of the proposal at the Chamber as a whole and at GroenLinks in particular. I have said that I will look into this in particular, given what has happened with the shares in the last period, but also with the retention bonus, for example. That wasn't about a retention bonus of a few dimes. It also seems logical to me not to give the Chamber an evaluation which, although it is well on its way but which ignores the actual situation. So I think I'm doing the Chamber justice with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u201	Your last question, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u202	It wasn't even about our own initiative proposal, but also about your own letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u203	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u204	You have also indicated yourself that you want to look at the variable components in the fixed part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u205	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u206	My question is actually very simple. Do you have the impression, like me, that in the last short period of time, we are increasingly seeing that the fixed part is being followed by variable rewards? Is that one of the reasons for you to come forward with proposals for this? And how does that relate to postponing the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u207	I must also evaluate my own impression, and then I will come back to Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u208	That's what I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u209	I didn't hear you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u210	No. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u211	Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer made a very valid point when he said that the debate should actually be broader. The debate should also be about the leverage ratio and about the banking union. I very much agree with him, because no matter how logical it is that we are talking about banker's rewards, we have to look out for the notion that the banks will be healthy once we have resolved this part of the debate, and that we will be able to survive another crisis. If I'm being very honest, there are even bigger issues that may attract less social attention but which are at least as important for system banks to solve. I very much agree with Mr Nijboer. I also realize that he wants to go even further than the cabinet in terms of buffers, but I am, in part encouraged by him, in Europe, arguing for higher buffers. That's one. The second is that Mr Nijboer seemed to imply that my enthusiasm for the banking union is somewhat weak. That is a perception I would like to take away, because I have always said that it is extremely important that this banking union should be established. There are three pillars, namely a resolution side, a supervisory side and EDIS. Only the conditions under which we take these steps are crucial. For it could be that, with the accelerated introduction of a banking union under the wrong conditions of rain, we will end up in the drip, and that is precisely what the Dutch taxpayer will reap from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u212	You can't actually blow and keep the flour in the mouth, we in Groningen say. I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges the importance of bank buffers. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that the cabinet would participate if Europe lowers them. That's really wrong. Fortunately, thanks mainly to the Christian Union, this does not happen in the case of bonus legislation. The Minister is prepared to make some adjustments there that do not occur in Europe. How can he say that the bank buffers may be even more important, but that he is following Europe in that respect, even if it is going in the wrong direction? 'Cause he doesn't do that on bonuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u213	It's really a broad debate. Mr Nijboer and I have often had an exchange of views on this. I am highly recommended to do so more often, but it is important that we put the right nuances into that. One. A great deal has happened in the field of buffers in recent years. Mr Nijboer will acknowledge that. Two. In Europe, the cabinet wants to argue for higher buffers. That also makes sense, because we are going with the Banking Union to a more European or European system. Three. We have all kinds of proposals to do with buffers for bail-in. In the ESM we also have a lot of discussion about how we deal with the so-called sovereigns. Mr Nijboer certainly knows that as well as I do. How do we deal with the misery of states that are on the balance sheets of banks? Let me be quite honest: if I look at the whole European banking landscape and I should zoom in on what is very vulnerable, that is one of my major concerns. So we still have a lot of homework to do. But I would also like to say to Mr Nijboer that a lot has already been done on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u214	The previous minister, who was also President of the Eurogroup, had the same position: we need to have higher bank buffers in Europe, but if the lobby of the French and German banks is so strong that we are not moving forward in this area, then the Netherlands is going to do so. That's what happened. In the coalition agreement it has been agreed that this is a very bad agreement. We are going to relax the Dutch rules again if we do not succeed and Europe holds onto them. For Minister Wiebes, 20 billion cubs were in the coalition agreement, but he's out of it. He's had a fight. This is a really bad idea. So I would say: walk away from the agreement that the level playing field in Europe is the leading vehicle to get the financial sector healthy. The Minister says: I do not agree. That sounds like it, too. So take action and say: if it does not happen in Europe, the legislation in the Netherlands will remain sound, and we will not lose sight of it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u215	I understand that there are passages in the coalition agreement that Mr Nijboer is even more enthusiastic about than this one. Let me seriously say to him that I understand why he is saying this and that this is really a subject that we are going on. At the same time, the logic of wanting to make European agreements on this is very clear. This concerns not only the buffer sec, but also the bail-in, the sovereigns and a number of other topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u216	I have two brief questions. Perhaps it would save us all time if I presented the following conclusion to the Minister, namely that he shares what he has just said about the buffers. In the contribution of the Party for Animals we have named some more system criticisms. Does that indeed deserve attention in relation to the reward? If that is the case, we will immediately be finished with the Minister's consideration of the contribution of the Party for Animals. Saves time. Two. In fact, the Minister says in a sense, between his nose and his lips, that there are much bigger and more serious problems. I understand very well that this is not the time to name it and go into it for a moment, but I am very curious if he can name two or three things that cause him much more concern in relation to banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u217	As far as the conclusions are concerned, we must all be careful. I think it is wise that I should go over my own conclusions, because before I know it, I am being smuggled into a conclusion that is only a quarter or half of mine. I wouldn't want that, no matter how empathetic and eloquent it has been formulated. As far as the bigger problem is concerned, I would like to say that we are naturally concerned about bonuses and salaries. We are partly concerned about it because there is a moral component in it and for another part because we have seen that certain incentives, as it is called in good Dutch, can incite in those salaries behaviour that you do not want to have in banks because they endanger the bank and then potentially endanger the system. At the same time, we have taken a lot of steps there. If I look more broadly and look at the whole of the European banking landscape, important steps have been taken on many dossiers. Mr Nijboer thinks that I am doing too little, and I am trying to carry that fate, although I think that there have been really great steps taken. But I do agree with Mr Nijboer that there is still much to be done in the area of buffers and that I prefer a higher European agreement than a lower one. That's one. Two: I think there are a lot of good things in this banking union, but I am very hesitant about letting the Netherlands or other countries mess with a banking union that will only bring us misery. So there it is really step by step, there it is really risk reduction first and risk mutualization afterwards. For example, in the banking union, I can mention more things, for example in the area of the NPLs on Cyprus and Greece's balance sheets and a lot of other issues on which I often exchange highly motivated views with the Chamber, but which I may not have to step up in detail here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u218	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u219	Mr President, I will be with Mr Van Raan right away. He asked a logical and intriguing question. That was the same question that Mr Paternotte asked in a slightly different way afterwards. I think Mr Paternotte used the words "voting" or "switching" with your feet. I understand it so much that they're both actually saying: you should be able to switch more easily. Now it's a lot easier to switch than it was in the past. I think they're asking if there's anything else possible. There I have, as it is so beautifully called in good lubberian, a positive basic position, but the IBAN numbers are regulated at European level, so that is not something I can decide for a moment. However, in this context, I would like to see whether we can facilitate this, because I fully understand the purpose behind the questions and I agree with them. I'll put that on the list and discuss it. By the way, I would add that one of the complex things, even if you can take that number, is that both Members will recognize that there is usually a Christmas tree of other things behind that account. There's more bills on that. There's often a mortgage on it. Few people are just with one current account customer from a bank. So the so-called switching costs will probably stay relatively high even with one IBAN number that you can take with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u220	Yeah, that's right. There are a lot of obstacles and I think it is important to make them as low as possible, so that customers can indeed vote with their feet, as several thousands have also wanted to do in recent weeks. The minister quoted Lubbers. Of course, he had more beautiful words, such as the word "milding," a beautiful lobberian word. My question is: if you look at the choice of inserting the bank names into these IBAN numbers, do you think that is wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u221	"Now's knowledge" is a very dangerous concept that I wouldn't want to burn down. Moreover, I cannot fully see that, because I do not know whether there have been many advantages. I will say quite honestly that recognizing that bank name for me is always nice, because then I know that I am busy with the good sofa when I'm using a song like that. So with the knowledge of today, I'm going to go on with it in that way. Then I would like to reply to another question from Mr Paternotte, namely whether I am prepared to draw up the proposal for a new banking licence soon. Yes, I am. But before the summer is very optimistic. If I can make it "after the summer," we'll get a long way together. It's something to do for a while. Mr Van Raan asked about the right of assent. I have some good news about that. Some members may also be in or in contact with colleagues in the SZW committee. Last January, the House of Representatives adopted an amendment to the Works Council Act, a law of my colleague of SZW. It gives the works councils powers on directors' remuneration. I've been told that that law is currently in the Upper House. There too, the Animal Party will undoubtedly consider this law. Mr Van Raan asked for a reflection on three root causes. I would like to give a somewhat procedural answer to that. They are three quick questions, but also very big ones. I understand that Mr Van Raan has also put these questions in writing today. I would like to return to it in detail and in writing. Mr President, I am beginning to speak more quickly, because I know what you had in mind in terms of time. I have arrived at my third block and there I find Mr Azarkan at the top. He asked me why I came up with these measures. Let me say a few introductory things about that. Firstly, we have the strictest bonus legislation and the strictest remuneration legislation in Europe in the area of banks. Mr Nijboer said the same thing. That's one. Two: my predecessor wanted to investigate whether and, if so, how to take further action when there is no state aid to banks. The Council of State has made this very explicit: it does not tolerate the right of ownership. For the previous cabinet of PvdA and VVD that was the signal not to put that in a bill either. That is also the view of this cabinet and rightly so. I would like to make that very clear to the Chamber. It is not for nothing that the previous cabinet and this cabinet and I hope we all value ownership. In the western world, it's a great asset. That's what you see when you're in places where it's much less well protected than in Europe and similar parts of the world. So the beginning of the answer to Mr Azarkan's question is that it is a thought that occurred to me, but that I was quite quick to understand the history of something far more far-reaching. That's just not possible. At the same time, I have heard a few things that may inspire me to put it a little more broadly than those three points. Let me be very clear on those three points, especially on the first point. Mr Snels asked a question about this. Especially on that first point, it is still very good to see if my wish is really a pebble in the shoe. What I'm proposing is a big step. I am very aware of that. It means that you will recover the fixed salary above a certain amount in the event of State aid being granted. I want to find out very carefully how that relates to and whether it tolerates ownership. Mr Snels is right about that. Why do I think this is so important, especially with the banks that got into trouble? It is my frustration and the frustration of many people in the Netherlands that large salaries are paid at these rescued banks. That's friction. A lot of people are wondering, how is that possible? Especially in the case of banks that are in trouble, it is obvious to look at a much more extensive clawback, but I really have to study on that. I am very transparent about the legal side of the matter. Mr Snels asked about the timetable for my measures. I'm impatient; I think he'll recognize that. I want it relatively fast. But I also want to do it carefully, and that means that I want to consult very carefully on each of these three subjects. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State, in particular, on the first point but, of course, on all three points, as it is so finely called. That consultation will start before the summer and so it is already April.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u222	Are you actually done with...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u223	But with this question on the legal side of the matter and the timetable. I have answered two questions to Mr Snels in this block and also a question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u224	But you were still working on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u225	...this cube. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u226	Then I would suggest that you complete that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u227	Excellent. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte asked if I agree with him that punishment afterward is not a reason not to increase in advance. Because of the double denials that lie in that sense, I have to be very careful. But in my opinion, Mr Paternotte means that the fact that you might be able to take it away afterwards should not mean that it is a bit wider in the front. That is how I interpreted his question and, of course, I very much agree with it. But I find that particular point, quite frankly, the most intolerable to the discussion and also the most intolerable to what we have seen in the banking crisis. On the one hand, you can see that a bank, which has been troubled by its own behaviour or, to a large extent, by its own behaviour and is being pulled out of trouble by the taxpayer, pays certain salaries. That, of course, is the reason why politics has intervened in this way before. Then Mr Van Dijck and Mr Nijboer asked whether it was impossible, in my view, for Mr Van Dijck's word to have been for ING to do what was done if I had been able to transpose all three of my proposals into legislation. If they are introduced, is it impossible? I don't dare say "impossible," but I do think it matters. If we peel off those three proposals, the second means that certain structures force you to hold on to variable rewards much longer. The third is a very different kind of social consultation, which would hopefully result in you returning to your steps as a board of Commissioners and doing something else. Is there a guarantee? No, there's no guarantee. I'll be honest about that, too. But I would like to emphasise once again: it is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board. We have the strictest possible remuneration policy in Europe, and we are going to tighten it even further. We are going to tighten it even further on three points, at least as far as I am concerned, if I get it legally. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u228	Mr. Nijboer, he's still finishing up this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u229	If Mr Nijboer stands up, I will immediately hold my pass. I had arrived at the very last piece of the third block and that is GroenLinks' bill. I have just said that I would say something about this procedurally. Then let me do it now. Let me be very honest about it: I have more often realized how much time and effort and attention some would say "blood, sweat and tears" behind an initiative legislative proposal. I very much appreciate that this debate includes consideration of what can be done and that GroenLinks has come up with such a proposal. The proposal is now before the Council of State and it is awaiting the opinion of the Council of State. This also begins the treatment in your Chamber, Chairman. During that examination, the cabinet and the cabinet are deemed to come up with a response. Those are the rules of the state. I imagine that if I were to ride a bike through it, you, President, would be the first, but otherwise the members of your Chamber would be the first to touch me on that. I don't think I should.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u230	Nor should we look at Mr Nijboer, because you were still...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u231	But I was done and I, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u232	Were you done with all the...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u233	...with all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u234	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u235	If you were to take over that law, we wouldn't touch you, we would fall into the arms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u236	Well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u237	Yes, Renske. Mrs. Leijten! If you peel it off a little bit, the Minister says: even if you do those tightenings, ING can still give you that million. In a former state-owned company such as a.s.r., but perhaps later in the Volksbank and perhaps in ABN, salaries can be substantially increased on the first day that the State no longer has a share. Is it not necessary, then, to look beyond the proposals now before us? I was just thinking: shouldn't you just keep a golden share in the companies that you still have in order to continue to influence remuneration policies? Shouldn't you, for example, if you see what's going on at a.s.r. Happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u238	I was upset for a moment by Mrs. Nijboer... Sorry, now it's getting all complicated by Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u239	That's what happens when you talk about poor people and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u240	Mrs Leijten I heard whispering that otherwise, if the State didn't want the share, the SP would. That's why I was upset. Let me try to give you the serious answer that Mr Nijboer deserves on this question. There have been really great steps in the area of bonuses and salaries. Mr Nijboer himself has been there in the past period. We have checked again: that is really at a different level than in other European countries. I'm gonna take three steps with that. Some of us here are really excited about that, I understand. I'm happy about that. Others think it should go even further. However, I would like to stress that these are really three next steps, three steps that have not yet been taken, and of which we must take a very good legal look at whether they can. I'd like to watch out for the thought that this wouldn't help. However, I would also like to be honest with Mr Van Dijck, who asked me whether it would in all cases be impossible for it to continue. No, it's not in all cases impossible for it to go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u241	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u242	That is precisely the misery with this sector. It's not the first time. Mr Van Dijck mentioned the examples. But ABN also accounted for a tonne. Then we had to discuss it here again with a hearing. Then they went to defend it, and it had to be withdrawn. It just happens over and over again. Then you have to wonder if there are any more options. I'm just asking for an investigation to see if it's possible. I can understand why the Secretary of State can't just say that we have to keep a golden share here. But it's really important. A.s.r. increased by 40%, almost a month after a.s.r. was no longer in state hands. We don't want that. I myself tabled a motion to the effect that it should be included in the statutes. Still, it's happening again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u243	I recognize Mr Nijboer's sentiment, because that is what I have had in reading what has happened. I am referring, for example, to that speed. That time frame was, of course, extremely short. That is why, in my view, I used the words'very much' literally in response to Mr Nijboer's questions on this subject. Then let's do it like this. I understand the suggestion and perhaps sympathetic thought behind what Mr Nijboer is asking of me, a golden part. I am forgetting this for a moment, but it is in all sorts of ways complicated with the agreements we have made at European level. The agreement made, including in the crisis, not only in the Netherlands but also in other countries, was that states are temporarily allowed to take care of banks, but that these banks have to go back to the market. Here's what I'm gonna do. With regard to the two banks in which the State indirectly has a part of the shares and in the other case a large part of the shares, I will consider the possibilities and whether that is desirable. But I would like to avoid too much optimism on this point with Mr Nijboer, because what can and what the cabinet wants might be disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u244	Mr Van Dijck, last question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u245	I would like to come back to the reason for the right of ownership that the Council of State has indicated, because I do not understand what a million salary increase now has to do with the right of ownership. I mean, that's not property, is it? A salary isn't property. A property is a business or a property or a house or a car, but a salary increase that one intends to pay has nothing to do with ownership. So I wonder: isn't it a mistake to hide behind property rights under Article 1 of the first protocol to the ECHR? Everyone thinks of that: oh, right. But I took that first protocol once. It clearly states: it concerns existing property rights, assets. And if that's the case, interference is justified...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u246	What are you gonna read?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u247	...in the public interest. In other words, I do not see why the Council of State uses this to deprive the Minister of the instrument to lie down for a salary increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u248	The Minister. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u249	I can see that. It's been a long time since I've gone into more detail about property law, but I think I can tell you about it. A property right is a right you acquire. Every worker who has worked for a month and is paid for it shall acquire the right of ownership of that money. That money comes from a bank account, which also belongs to the man or woman who earned that money. With that, it's become property, regardless of what they do with it. Whether it goes to a mortgage or to a car or to food, it is owned by it. And that is exactly the crux of this discussion. If you want a more extensive clawback after a bank has asked for state aid, that means that such a bank will get into trouble. The painful and unacceptable aspect of this discussion, even assuming that this has been partly caused by reckless behaviour, I think that as a society, you cannot say that you now want to intervene on the salaries paid. That is what I would like to see, but at the same time I see why there could be legal problems. That is why I am going to ask the Council of State for advice, because this means that you say retroactively that you still want to have some of the money that someone has earned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u250	I must say that it does not seem that there is a finance minister here who says that we are going to do three new things, but that he is not sure whether that is legally feasible, and who is actually throwing all the legal arguments in the hands of the Council of State in order not to get it. But I have another question. The minister said he's always going to ask all my questions very closely, but he's left a few. I asked him, for example, how this meeting with Van der Veer came about on 21 February. Did Van der Veer call? Can citizens, ordinary individuals who are not former colleagues of Shell from this minister also call and visit? And why has the Finance Minister been the one to whom Mr Van der Veer wanted to pitch his proposal for multinational consultation with the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u251	Just for the record, I'm talking to a lot of different people about a whole series of different topics. In any case, I would like to help Mrs Leijten out of the dream of what Mr Van der Veer and I had to do with each other in the past. I worked at that company until 2004, three-way back in Berlin, and Van der Veer was the boss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u252	That's still not an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u253	I think it is an answer, Mr President. I am talking to a lot of people about a whole series of subjects and I have talked to Mr Van der Veer about this. This was an idea of Labour in England, which at least worked well in Mr Van der Veer's observation, to ensure regular contacts between business and a few members of the cabinet. He brought that idea to my attention. So there are people constantly bringing things to my attention. I have already told Mrs Leijten that I did not follow up on this. But I really don't see... Mrs Leijten and I had a conversation earlier in which she said I should contact the deposit bank. I said exactly: the door is always open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u254	Yes. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u255	Really, Mr President, I would like to stress that it would also be strange if I did not talk to social actors...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u256	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u257	...and just let me think about it, regardless of whether I make it all or only part of it mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u258	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u259	Do you know what's most curious, Mr. Chairman? That this minister lends himself to old-fashioned lobbying practices of a former CEO of almost the largest multinational in the Netherlands, Shell, who then calls in a personal capacity to arrange a meeting, so that it does not come into the public agenda, and then serves the interest of business. I asked the Minister whether he did not agree with me that it was precisely the Minister of Finance who should be cleaner than clean and that you should not do this sort of thing or else just make it public: I spoke to Shell's former CEO about a multinational consultation with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u260	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u261	Mr. Chairman. There are real suggestions about my integrity that I'm not going to make mine. I really disagree with what Mrs Leijten is suggesting here. The idea that I would have been lobbied on that... That's just not true. I really want to throw that suggestion far from my point of view. At the same time, I do not think it is a bad idea to look again at the exact nature of the rules, which are all on the public agenda and not on the public agenda. But I've done exactly what the Ministry of Finance has been doing since 2016. This is standing policy. It is a policy in which not only my ministry, but also other ministries try to exercise a very high degree of transparency. That is what Mrs Leijten really has to do with it, I fear, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u262	Thank you. No, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u263	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u264	No, there is Mr Azarkan. He's also through his interruptions. If I'm going to let you do that, I'm going to have to let everyone else do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u265	I just want to make things right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u266	You want to fix something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u267	The minister's just saying, like he'd been lobbied. I didn't say that. I said that this behavior is lobbying, that you should be cleaner than clean and that if you do this you should be completely transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u268	Then it is right that you have corrected this point. I thank the Minister and we are now going to the second term. That's where your point could be put, Mr. Azarkan. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer. Speaking time is exactly one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u269	I know, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Two introductory remarks to the first motion, which concerns the golden share. The CDA was always in favour of at least investigating that. I put Mr Van Hijum in there. The second point is that the statutes of financial institutions which were in the hands of the Empire already include, on the basis of a motion by myself, that they should pursue a controlled remuneration policy. D66 was against it at the time. I'm glad that's what D66's for right now. I also hope for support for this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at the request of the Court, the statutes of financial institutions which are or were state-owned include a controlled remuneration policy;]] [[whereas banks and insurers nevertheless want to increase significantly as rapidly as possible the number of top rewards;]] [[whereas there is broad agreement that this is indefenable;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine the option of maintaining a gold share to participate in the remuneration policy of financial institutions and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u270	Then a brief second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the lesson of the financial crisis is that banks must hold sufficient capital;]] [[Whereas public authorities still have to intervene if they fail;]] [[calls on the government to maintain the leverage ratio at least 4%, even if other international standards are agreed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels, Mr Leijten and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you. Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. The profit of this debate is, in my view, that there is broad support for the further examination of legislative measures. The key words are support for society and there must be support for the people and the social function of our financial institutions. If I look now at the proposal for an initiative of the 69 seats of the Chamber, it is not just from GroenLinks (PPE), and the Minister's proposals, it is mainly about the two and three proposals. It is about trying to secure social support in the legislation and about variable remuneration and the fixed part. Finally, may I make one suggestion to the Minister for his part of the work? We simply continue quietly and await the opinion of the Council of State. It's about urgency. I think we share the sense of urgency. We should not wait too long for legislation. More new proposals are coming up. Moreover, I believe that we are increasingly seeing variable pay being attached to the fixed part of the salary. I would suggest to him that his first proposal, the clawback idea, be examined separately. I can just imagine that it would take longer to see the legal consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u274	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u275	That is not as urgent as the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u276	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the time available, I shall begin immediately with the filing of two motions, the first being a motion concerning, in particular, the legal possibilities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there have been several examples in recent months of financial institutions seeking or seeking to extend their remuneration policies for top executives;]] [[Whereas in 2008 the financial sector was responsible for launching the biggest financial and economic crisis since the 1930s, with enormous consequences for society and a major increase in remuneration policies, is a completely wrong signal to society;]] [[Calls on the Government to take forward the legal options for strengthening remuneration policies in financial companies and to inform the Court of Justice of the results by the end of 2018;]] [[calls on the Government to also consider other measures put forward by stakeholders where a measure contributes to the shaping of a controlled remuneration policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes, Mr Bruins and Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-175]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u278	Yes, Mr. Chairman. On your question "is it sufficiently supported?" We always raise our hands, because we allow all the motions. But in fact I would not even like to support it, because the Minister says he wants to come up with an answer after the summer and this motion gives him a few months already. Why does Mr. Ronnes do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u279	Mr Ronnes, why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u280	Mr. Chairman. I am particularly concerned that it must be a road which also has an end date. We have had a serious debate on this, but that is not the end of it. In any case, this motion strengthens the Minister in order to speed things up. And so much sooner, the better. We think that if we want to do it carefully, this is a nice trajectory. Mr President, then I come to my second motion. It is more about appealing to the sector and also about taking their own measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u281	I'd start reading it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u282	Yes, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the recently envisaged remuneration proposals in the financial sector show that the culture of excessive remuneration is still an important part of the financial sector;]] [[Whereas, in addition to examining legal measures to combat excessive remuneration, it is also important to look at non-legislative measures, for example measures by the financial sector itself;]] [[calls on the government to consult both banks and insurers with a view to strengthening the definition of public acceptance and social context for remuneration policy in the Banking Code and the Code of Conduct on Insurance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32103-176]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u283	Mr. Chairman. The big question is whether the 3 million is still on the table or not has not been answered. We have to compare apples with apples, but ING has said to us that they want to compete with Shell, Heineken and others and that they want to achieve the reasonable amount of 3 million in three ways. A benchmark is actually always manipulative and can have an up-to-date force. I think we should get rid of it at all. I wish the Minister every success in maintaining that the 3 million is off the table. Then the question of not being legally enforceable. You can make it legally enforceable, and that's why I'm proposing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that banks are semi-public institutions because they depend on the safety net that taxpayers cough up;]] [[Considers that it is better to specify in advance where limits lie, instead of correcting ex-post disturbances through social unrest;]] [[noting that maximum remuneration applies to the public and semi-public sectors, even sectorally to health insurers;]] [[calls on the Government to accommodate the remuneration of bankers through a sectoral scheme in the Top Income Standards Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of Finance made a substantive proposal by a former top man on the establishment of structural consultation of multinationals, but that this discussion was not on the minister's public agenda;]] [[noting that agreements by the Minister of Finance are only public when it comes to discussions with institutions or organisations, and that in this way lobbying conversations by former CEOs can remain invisible;]] [[considers that there should be no conflict of interest or boyfriend politics around a Minister of Finance;]] [[calls on the Government to respect full transparency when it comes to talks, speeches and activities, and to always display them in the public agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-177]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-178]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u284	Thank you, Mr President. The PVV co-signed the GroenLinks bill. It would be good to present wage increases first in order to avoid social unrest. Now social unrest is the antenna and that's the wrong signal. Hence the next motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is possible to circumvent the bonus ceiling, e.g. by excessive increases in fixed remuneration;]] [[considers that it is incomprehensible that high salaries are still paid by financial institutions;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to prevent circumvention of the bonus ceiling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-179]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u285	Mr. Chairman. Two more motions on NIBC. This was not the case here, but at the end of 2016 the directors of NIBC bought a stock package. The CEO was one of 1.5 million at the end of 2016, at €5,81 per share. With the IPO this share suddenly stands at €8.20. So that made them a lot of money. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that financial institutions frequently pay out share packages as part of the fixed salary;]] [[Whereas these packages contain perverse incentives which are highly undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to also qualify shares packages as a bonus and to bring them below the bonus ceiling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-180]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u286	One more motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u287	I don't know how short it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u288	Very briefly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that financial institutions are allowed to issue retention bonuses up to a maximum of 200% of the fixed salary in the event of an IPO;]] [[Whereas it is possible to circumvent the bonus ceiling;]] [[calls on the Government to include retention bonuses under the bonus ceiling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-181]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Here too, I hope that I, as a Member of Parliament, will again be very wrong and that civil society will succeed where it has failed so far. But in case this is not the case, three supporting motions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u290	Then I'd start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u291	Sure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that switching from bank is considered complicated by many savers and investors and bank customers with a payment account, because their bank account number is directly linked to a particular bank;]] [[Whereas portability of bank account numbers has been possible for a short time in the 1980s;]] [[whereas the IBAN number is inextricably linked to the bank, which prevents bank customers from switching to another bank;]] [[Whereas freedom of banking choice, including the freedom to switch, contributes to a level playing field for consumers and banks;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how number portability can be anchored in the Banking Act and report to the Chamber on this in the near future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that bankers continue to enrich themselves irresponsiblely;]] [[noting that there are too few checks-and-balances within banks to stop this self-enrichment;]] [[calls on the government to commit itself to giving the works councils of banks the right of assent and/or right of veto for both fixed and variable remuneration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that (among other things) there is no separation between utility and commercial functions of banks, due to the low leverage ratio and fractional banking, the risk has arisen that remuneration for bank management is disproportionate;]] [[noting that this risk entails considerable responsibilities for bank directors;]] [[noting that some of the bank directors cannot bear this responsibility;]] [[noting that investigations have already been carried out, but that the relationship between the foundations of this system and the rewards has not yet been sufficiently clearly investigated;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct an independent scientific institute to conduct research into the above system and its relationship with remuneration policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-182]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Leijten, Mr Nijboer and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-183]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-184]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u293	Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u294	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say a few words in defence of two ministers. In this debate, Wouter Bos was also criticised at some point for ever cooperating on a benchmark that compares banks and bank salaries with other companies, while he has worked to lower salaries in banks. And Minister Hoekstra, as a former employee, would have lent himself to old-fashioned lobbying practices, while this minister has spoken more clearly than ever about the planned salary increase and has successfully thrown his full weight into the battle to get the proposal on the salary increase off the table. The point I want to make here is that the CEOs of companies are not lepers, such as civil society organisations, religious institutions or workers' representations, but that ING's Supervisory Board has shown itself to be foreign to the world, and that I would hope that good contact with this minister, for example, will lead to the Council no longer making any foreign proposals in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u295	I did not say to the Minister that he was lobbied, but that it is very uncomfortable how he refers to things. He says: I spoke to Mr Van der Veer on 21 February. I will just look into the Minister's public agenda and then there will be a discussion with the IMF and Rabobank on the 21st, but not with Mr Van der Veer. If I ask what it's about, it's an old-fashioned lobby proposal. I said: that is undesirable. I don't think we should. On the contrary, the Minister of Finance should not do that. No minister should do that, but our treasurer shouldn't. That is why I brought this into the debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u296	I would suggest that you proceed with the motion, Mr Paternotte, because I believe you have a motion with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u297	That's right, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas several banks that were too big to fail during the financial crisis were saved by the taxpayer;]] [[whereas the Dutch taxpayer continues to implicitly guarantee systemically relevant banks;]] [[considers that the financial sector should be at the service of the customer;]] [[considers that this is facilitated by more healthy competition within the financial sector;]] [[Calls on the Government to send the elaboration of a new banking licence, as provided for in the Government Agreement, to the Chamber by mid 2018, allowing new providers with limited scope or a limited number of services to enter the market and to increase competition in the sector in a safe manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-185]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u298	Mr President, thank you. First of all, congratulations to the Minister for his intentions. Over the last few days and weeks, we have agreed, and I mean society, politics and the government, together, that we have convinced the chairman of ING's Supervisory Board that €1.700,000 is a good salary. That's ironic, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. I would like to give our Minister a little more than a footnote. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there has been a great deal of social unrest over the past 15 years about the remuneration of top executives at system banks;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibilities of a "Hoekstracoefficient', which provides that a top administrator of a system bank should not earn more than a number of times the average salary at his or her bank,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-186]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u299	I see I brought the wrong motion. Can I just go to my place for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u300	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u301	That distance is always good for my step counter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u302	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u303	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there has been a great deal of social unrest over the past 15 years about the remuneration of bankers in general and the remuneration of ING directors in particular;]] [[noting that ING's Supervisory Board has never picked up these signals properly and has repeatedly shown insufficient social and political sensitivity;]] [[calls on the government to recommend a course on social and political sensitivity to all system bank commissioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-187]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u304	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his clear answers and wish him every success in the search for good options to make the future look a little more beautiful again. I have one motion to support that in a heartfelt way. That motion sounds like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ING's Supervisory Board consists of only 60-plussers;]] [[noting that ING has fewer women on the supervisory board than in the boards of the other major Dutch banks;]] [[noting that diversity is an important condition for achieving sound decision-making;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with ING how more diversity can be sought on the Supervisory Board, and to keep track of the frequency of job vacancies filled by a woman or someone under 50 and to report on them half-yearly over the next two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Paternotte, Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan, Mr Leijten and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u305	A very short question. It is about Mr Ronnes' motion. I read it right now. Mr. Bruins is under it, too. It states: invites the government to consider measures put forward by other stakeholders. I was wondering, for example, whether the Christian Union understands the holding of a gold share in ABN and the Volksbank. As my first motion shows, I am also a stakeholder. That's the key question, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u306	Mr Nijboer is certainly a stakeholder in this debate and in the wider debate on the sector, so I would certainly like to give him that role. But I can point out to him that in my first speech I asked the Minister to be as open as possible to any ideas that might arise during this process and to include them in the research he is starting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u307	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u308	What about the gold part? That's what the question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u309	As far as I am concerned, all ideas to make the sector healthier are welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u310	Thank you. The last motions will be copied and distributed. But I see the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u311	Mr. Chairman. Somewhere with stakeholder Van Raan, given his reading speed, I lost the thread. So if I could have five minutes, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u312	Five minutes, really. Because a new debate starts at 8 p.m. and we have to start on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u313	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u314	Mr President, thank you. I had received one more question and a large number of motions. The motion cannon was on again, if I may put it that way. I owe Mr Snels one more answer to a question. He talked about a sense of urgency and asked for the proposals to be split up. I'd be happy to take a look at that. I also share his sense of urgency, but I would like to take a broader look at what is and is not possible. Perhaps I should also take this opportunity to say to Mr Snels that it will also depend a little on how much else is going on. The people at the ministry have worked the whole Easter weekend hard to provide all those solid answers today. They have not been working very hard to support the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in the proposal for an initiative. And the capacity is limited. I do not want to discourage things like legislative initiative, but it does mean that I ask for some leniency when it comes to what can be done at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u315	However, it is common practice for MPs to be supported by legislative initiative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u316	Sure. We do that with love and pleasure. I think that's what happened with dedication.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u317	Sure, that's very good, very professional and very well done. I would like to thank the Minister for that. I hadn't had the opportunity. But we now have Mr Ronnes' motion, which calls for a sort of complete package to be decided at the end of the year. I can just imagine you're making a distinction after all. Some things will really be faster, and some things might take a little longer. I would ask the Minister if he would be willing to exercise that flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u318	I almost always want to be flexible. But at the same time, I would like to say that, if we are going to do that consultation, it will be complicated to consult all those groups and people and then to come up with one proposal first, then with the next and then with the third. So I would really like to look at that, but I hope Mr Snels will also understand that the enormous amount of time and effort that we will have to put into it means that we may conclude that we are clustering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u319	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u320	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be on the motions. I'll try to treat them at a rapid rate. On Mr Nijboer's motion on item No. 173 I think I have already made sympathetic sounds, but I was reminded that my predecessor already investigated this in 2013 and then informed the Chamber that it was difficult. I would suggest that if an essential interest or a last piece of interest is sold in one of the banks, I look at it again. But I hit the wall of reality myself when I was told that my predecessor has already looked into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u321	What about judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u322	The verdict must then be that I am dissuading the motion, because there is no point in looking at something twice. But if Mr Nijboer agrees that I am going to look at it again at the time of final sale and then inform the Chamber about it, that seems to me to be a way of holding the motion or adopting that interpretation. We just don't have to do any duplication here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u323	Short, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u324	At the time, it was mainly about protecting vital companies. That was another objective, including legal ones, than rewards, on which we also have legislation and the title is really different. I have also exchanged this with Mr Ronnes. Legally, too, that requires quite a lot of research. That is why I have formulated it so specifically. I would appreciate it if the Minister would do so. I would do that at an earlier time than when you have the last share. We should also be able to debate it, precisely because it is so technical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u325	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u326	So I understand it's not that easy, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u327	Then let's do it like this. Let me take a very specific look at to what extent what was discussed and concluded at the time by my predecessor is really different from what is stated in this motion. I'd really like to do that homework. I think that Mr Nijboer and I agree that, if the answer is the same, it does not make much sense to look at it in detail once again. So I think I'm gonna have to figure it out by process first. If it's any different, I'd like to take the obligation to see if we want anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u328	And that's possible for the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u329	No, no way. Then we're really talking about minimum weeks. I think it will also be relevant at a much later date. I therefore suspect that Mr Nijboer could also live with months. I would just like to repeat the first-term profit warning: although I would like to do so, I have to look at what is desirable and possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u330	But then about the motion: just put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u331	With this interpretation, I can leave the opinion to the Chamber, but with the clauses I have added. So I'm asking for time, at least a few months, to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u332	For the Acts: Mr Nijboer nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u333	And in the worst case scenario, Mr Nijboer receives a letter which states that the process is so similar that further research makes no sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u334	Second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u335	The second motion, the motion by Mr Nijboer and others. in piece No. 174, I must discourage despite sympathy for some of the objectives. She doesn't tolerate the coalition agreement either. On the motion from Mr Ronnes, Mr Bruins and Mr Van der Linde to item No. 175, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. I am, of course, willing to take measures from stakeholders and inform the Chamber before the end of 2018. On the motion by Mr Ronnes, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Bruins on item No. 176 I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'm willing to start the conversation, including about their own code. I think that is in line with what I said in the debate. The motion by Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Raan on item No. 177 I must advise against. That also applies to Mrs Leijten's motion on item No. 178 which calls for all agreements to be reflected in the public agenda. We have been consistent in this since 2016: organisations are on the agenda. I am prepared to do something else, as I believe I promised Mrs Leijten. I would like to look again and also to discuss with the cabinet whether further transparency is still desirable. But I would like to point out once again that we have really done it here as it has been for a number of years. We have a high degree of transparency, not only in my ministry but also in other ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u336	The Minister was actually a little upset at his answer to my questions, as if I were to say that he would have been lobbied. But he does work it out by saying: with that motion I'm not going to do anything, I'm going to discuss it again. Or you say, "I'm so open that I'm receiving everyone, and everyone can make a proposal, but then I'll show you who I'm talking to. Or you say, "I won't be lobbied, and the door isn't open to Shell's former CEO."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u337	With Mrs. Leijten's or-or's, you always have to be a little careful, because most of the time you don't want either. At least that's the case with me. I really want to clean it up. Of course I agree with Mrs Leijten that transparency is important. But we've made agreements about this. Like the previous cabinet, this cabinet is trying to show a high degree of transparency. I think I have done a generous hand-out to Mrs Leijten by saying that I will discuss this with the cabinet. That's what I really want to do. I'll tell her. But I'm deceiving the motion. Mr Van Dijck's motion for a resolution 179 I do not recommend, because we really need to wait for the evaluation, as well as the three proposals that I want to come up with. On the point in Mr Van Dijck's motion on item No. 180, we've been exchanging views for a while. That was about ownership. I must also advise against that motion. Mr Van Dijck's motion for a resolution 181, about retention fees, I have to advise against. Those fees are excluded. But I'd like to talk about the evaluation. I can imagine that this part of the law will also be evaluated. On the request in the motion in part No. 182 by Mr Van Raan and Mr Paternotte, I have already expressed my sympathy. I don't say "but," but I say "and." I understand that in 2019 the European Commission will examine whether this is possible. Let's just agree that in 2018 I will give her even more enthusiasm, because I will not be able to do something about it myself in 2018. If we can find each other in that interpretation, I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. But if anything is really expected of me beyond the limits of the possible and then this year, then I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u338	There's a little discussion going on. Mr. Van Raan, can you live with this interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u339	Mr Paternotte and I are not getting any further than that at the moment. So we're gonna think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u340	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u341	I must say to Mr Van Raan that I am incredibly flexible on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u342	But in case Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u343	Do you want an answer now? Do we have to do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u344	Well, I just... "Later detention can be called." Yeah, you can. But judgment is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u345	Mr President, what I said was: if I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u346	Exactly. That's what it was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u347	Can I interpret it in such a way that in 2018 I will support what both proposers want, namely to apply flexibility and ensure number portability? If I make that supportive sound in 2018 and the Commission is more enthusiastic about actually doing so by 2019, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u348	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u349	Okay, that's what I was talking about. Then the 11th motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u350	That motion-Van Raan c.s. in piece No. 183 on the right of veto, I must advise against. The subsequent motion, the Van Raan/Azarkan motion in part No. 184 on the independent investigation, I must also advise against. This should also be done at European level. The cabinet is also working in other ways to ensure utility functions. On the Paternotte/Van der Linde motion in part No. 185, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. In accordance with the motion, I will also inform the Chamber in mid-2018. The motion in part No. 186 by Mr Azarkan. He keeps linking my name to all kinds of concepts. No matter how honorable or inviting, I have to stay away from that for the reasons I mentioned earlier. The motion in part No. 187 also belongs to Mr Azarkan. It's about offering courses. I don't think that's something I should be offering. On the sixteenth motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u351	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u352	First, the final motion. You'll have the opportunity in a moment. The last motion by Mr Bruins, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u353	About the last motion, in part No. 188, by Mr Bruins and others Here's what I'm saying. The ING is of course an interlocutor for me, but it is not a bank I have something to say about. So perhaps I could agree with Mr Bruins that we should broaden it. I believe that we can extend the scope of the motion. Perhaps we can agree that I will talk to the Dutch Association of Banks, because then I will talk to all banks. And in my view, Mr Bruins's goal, as well as my own, is to ensure diversity in as many supervisory boards as possible. So if I can make that adjustment, I can leave the vote on the motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u354	That is an excellent interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u355	Then I will go to Mr Van Raan, on the previous motions. A little late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u356	We're all missing a great opportunity here, aren't we? There is indeed a lot of research on the foundations of the banking system; that is true. That has already been done, for example by the De Wit Committee and the WRR. That is all true, but it is precisely how these fundamentals affect the remuneration behaviour of directors. And that hasn't been investigated yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u357	You mean the twelfth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u358	I think so, but I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u359	I don't remember now either, but I do know which motion it is about and what my opinion is on it. I understand this and it really has my sympathy, but we are going to evaluate the bonus legislation and there are three explorations or measures that I would like to work on. I think I should discourage this motion. If Mr Van Raan, at a later stage, has the impression that it would have great added value, then we need to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u360	Mr Azarkan on the motion on the courses, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u361	The 15th, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u362	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u363	A crucial part of that motion is that I don't write, as the Minister says, that he's going to offer a course. It says he's gonna recommend it. I assume that Mr Hoekstra will speak to them a number of times in the coming period. I think it's something else than the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u364	Yeah, but I think we should look a little bit at measure and responsibilities. The discussion with the sector should focus on the important social responsibility that supervisory boards have to take. If we go down to the level that I'm going to propose a course for that, I'm going to be assessing the next moment what kind of course that should be and who should be working in that course. I think that's a level I shouldn't want to send. Mr Azarkan should not want to send me on the road with this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u365	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u366	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-10.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
