ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we always start oral Question Time on Tuesday. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport in trade union K. I give Mr Van der Staaij the floor on behalf of the SGP to put his question to the Minister on the provision of deadly powder by Cooperative Last Will to over 300 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Recently I received a story from a lady who was in intensive care less than six months ago after a suicide attempt. She contacted Last Will for such a deadly powder. She was given an explanation of the procedure. She was also told: "If it takes too long, I can also give you addresses in China and Mexico. It's an illegal drug, but you'll have it in your house." The lady writes: "I thanked him and told him to think about it. But that's a little intense to realize. It's just a few acts, and then I get a strange man on the phone for me. I'm asking him some questions about getting the cure because I was worried. Less than ten minutes later, I had a commitment that I could get two addresses to end my own life without even one question like "Are you sick?', "Did you talk to a doctor about this?', "why are you calling about this?', "Did you consider it properly?" or "does anyone else know about this?" Mr. Chairman. If this is practice and if we know that 90% of people with a death wish are suffering from psychiatric problems, then it is unbelievable that this way we are working on providing a deadly powder without all kinds of guarantees and that this type of address is being pointed out in China and Mexico? Then that would be an undermining of the protection of vulnerable lives, wouldn't it? Does that mean that all the desirable safeguards that exist around the possible help with suicide are avoided? I was here six months ago. Then I asked questions about the plans the Cooperative Last Will had then. My question is: what has happened since then? Has any strobe been put in their way or is it allowed to continue? Will the Minister or the Cabinet at least call the Cooperative Last Will to account for this course of action and act against it? These wild-west practices can't go on, can they? Mr. Chairman. That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the questions put by Mr Van der Staaij. I fully understand the concerns he expresses and the qualifications he uses for this. Last week, when the message came out, I also said that I think it is very undesirable, on the verge of irresponsible or actually over it and possibly even criminal. We do indeed have a number of specific safeguards in case of suicide. They're in the euthanasia law. This is a fairly long set of safeguards, in which all forms of suicide aid are actually punishable, unless carried out by a doctor, unless voluntarily and considered as a request submitted by the patient, unless there is hopeless and unbearable suffering, provided that the patient is well informed about the situation, there is no reasonable alternative solution, an independent physician is consulted as a second opinion and the assistance in suicide is carried out in a medically careful manner. All these safeguards are in the euthanasia law. All of this is not met in the case of the execution of suicide aid as the Cooperative Last Will envisages, at least: what could possibly be qualified as such. Of course, that's where the tension is. Mr Blok, from the previous cabinet, also pointed this out during the last time you spoke about this. What's happened since then? My predecessors, Mr Blok and Mr Schippers, have written a letter to the Cooperative Last Will that there may be a violation of the Code of Criminal Law. That's one. In addition, of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office has also considered whether there could be a criminal offence here. The point is, of course, that the crime must be dealt with before action can be taken. I would add that I very much like to talk to the Cooperative Last Will, to make them aware of the undesirable nature of the action that is being taken and how much this could lead to a criminal offence and its determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	Let me say first of all that I appreciate the fact that this Minister and this cabinet are taking a very clear position at any rate other than a six months ago and saying: this is very undesirable, this is indeed not the way to go. I really think of that as a profit: thank you for that. It's a good thing the conversation's getting started. I trust that the Chamber will be able to be informed of the outcome. My question is very specific: when does the Minister think that the Chamber can be informed? As regards the criminal route, the Minister says: the law says that it is not actually punishable until someone has actually died as a result of the use of the powder. That gives me the uncomfortable feeling: do we have to die before there is a title to do something about this? In addition to a moral position, is it not possible to make it clear that this is not legally acceptable either? Is this not exactly what is punishable, given the case law of the Supreme Court, namely helping to order, distribute and supply such resources? Is it not possible to take a sharper view that this is also criminally incorrect and that it is not just against the edge but over the edge? If it turns out that precisely the borders are being looked up here, isn't that a reason for this cabinet to consider tightening up legislation? This was also the case in other countries, such as Australia. There they say, we don't want to go that way. They have tightened the rule of law. If we say 'this is not the way to go', can we not be satisfied that the practice is continuing to seek its own way? Silence is really going backwards, isn't it? Therefore, my question to the Minister is whether he would like to examine the possibilities of tightening up legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	Let me begin by saying that I fully understand Mr Van der Staaij's inconvenience. You can see something that is undesirable and what you really must qualify as irresponsible and possibly also criminal in view of all the due diligence requirements of the euthanasia law. Only, of course, we know a separation of powers. The existence of criminal acts in an individual case should be established on the basis of investigations carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office. In order to carry out that investigation, the crime as such must have occurred first. That's the awkward part. I understand very well from Mr Van der Staaij. That is why I say: my predecessors did indeed send that letter to point out to this club that what is being done could possibly be qualified as a violation of the Code of Criminal Law. What I would like to add is that I would also like to engage in that intrusive conversation with them and seek out that intrusive conversation, to convince them that this is not only undesirable and irresponsible, but that there may actually be criminal acts. Let us do things one step at a time. You add: should the law not be amended? I honestly don't know right now. Let me not mention that in advance, either, prior to that conversation. Now let's have that conversation. I'd be happy to inform the Chamber about that, grab him, like, a month or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	I think it's a terrifying idea for a lot of people at home that in hundreds and perhaps thousands of homes there is a deadly powder in a sneaky little box. This involves major risks, not only for the people themselves but also for children who might play with them. Maybe there are also people who are angry and want to use that powder on someone else. Does the Minister share these concerns about these risks? Is it not time to tackle this and reduce the risks as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	Of course I'll share that. It is not for nothing that I say that I think this movement is undesirable and irresponsible. Of course, that also has to do with the fact that this stuff is also not known what is used for it. Of course, that is one of the reasons why I am entering into this conversation which I have just promised towards Mr Van der Staaij. I think that's the way to deal with it. It is, of course, impossible to act proactively against anything that could possibly be used as a dangerous substance. When we open our kitchen cabinet we see more things that are very dangerous and can be used. What matters here is that a club purchases and distributes resources very consciously. There may even be a violation of the Code of Criminal Law. That is why we are not only going to leave it with the letter sent by the previous cabinet, but I would also like to talk to this club to point out to them the irresponsible nature of this and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	You did say that, didn't you? Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I believe is at stake here is the safety of people. The government is called upon to protect human lives. The actions of this organization are really at odds with that. We don't know who's gonna get it eventually and how the people who apply for it are doing. The minister says he's going to have a cup of coffee at that organization to remind them of their responsibility. It is precisely because the aim of this organisation is so clear that I wonder if that is enough. We can already see that people's safety is at stake. Isn't that already crossing the boundaries of the law and challenging prosecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u11	I understand the inconvenience. If Mrs Dik-Faber has an alternative, I invite her to come forward with it. I do not think there are many alternatives at the moment before taking criminal action. I'm not going there for a cup of coffee. I hope this will be given, but the aim is to have an intrusive conversation to remind them that this is undesirable and irresponsible, and could even be punishable. It can be punishable, depending on the facts and circumstances of course. That is what we can do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you. The Minister has promised to inform the Chamber of the outcome of such a discussion within one month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u13	Sure!
