ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the proposal for an own-initiative act Temporary law on the adjustment of the discount rate of Mr Van Rooijen, Section 34606. Two weeks ago, the answer was in the first instalment, but it was not completed. That is why we have the continuation of this today. I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen. I shall then give the floor to the Members of Parliament and then to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, who is present today as an advisor. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that the second deadline is scheduled after the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment has held a round table on the evaluation of the financial review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u2	Mr Van Rooijen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to continue the discussion of my own initiative proposal in the Chamber this evening. Two weeks ago, I was faced with the almost impossible task of not only answering all the questions but also outlining the broader contexts. I could have limited myself to answering the questions of my colleagues in the first term, but where necessary I did so in writing yesterday. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate and also in yesterday's written reply, I spoke mainly about the spokesmen of the coalition, but I also listened very carefully to the opposition. Tonight, I'll answer them. In the opposition we see the willingness to approach the problem pragmatically. Two weeks ago, I may have been a little excited about the purpose of our mission, but we're still hopeful. We hear you when you say that a temporary solution to prevent discounts does not necessarily deserve the beauty price. At the same time, I fear that the desire for a more permanent solution carries the risk that nothing will happen or that something will happen too late. My group appreciates the first-term action of Mr De Jong of the PVV. I would like to thank him and his fellow parties for their almost unconditional support in this debate. There's a lot of appreciation for that within our ranks. Mr De Jong immediately understood it, even though both his party and 50PLUS would prefer a broader and permanent solution. He is now choosing a practical solution with me, and I am pleased about that. Mr De Jong also rightly pointed out that participants and pensioners of the ABP, for example, had already lost 16.4% indexing. With this percentage, the ABP gives a good indication of the entire pension landscape. A lot of pain has already been taken, down to the double digits. Mr Van Kent of the SP, like Mr De Jong, has said many things that sound like music to my ears. The Socialist Party has also well understood the objective of this initiative, the prevention of reductions. The SP has a strong preference for a permanent solution. I understand that she is considering submitting an amendment which definitively amends the calculation rate. Mr Van Kent wants the calculation rate for calculating the premium to be aligned with the calculation rate for calculating the liabilities and/or a premium on the calculation rate based on the rate of return over the last ten years. That is almost the same theorem as GroenLinks recently involved. I think that's promising. Mr Van Kent also gave a wonderful list of hand-outs, points in which the SP and 50PLUS could pull together. It seems particularly interesting to me to have an in-depth discussion with Mr Van Kent in the future and also with Mr De Jong, Mr Grashoff and Mr Gijs van Dijk. I hope that other colleagues will join us. But neither of us five, the four mentioned and myself, are in it uncompromisingly. There will be a difficult task ahead of us to convince fellow chamber members of each of the interesting solutions mentioned by Mr Van Kent. I say the following to Mr Grashoff and Mr Gijs van Dijk in response to their first-term questions. Yes, I acknowledge that in recent years, the actual return of pension funds has logically been positively influenced by many crisis measures, including, of course, the ECB's market interventions. I accept the argument of higher valuations for capital titles; I have also spoken about this before. But with the argument of improvement as a result of the supposed additional employment, I find it difficult. This has only affected the funds in terms of the level of cover. A lot of trouble, actually. The premiums are, after all, far from cost-effective. So if I am kind to Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Dijk when they point out that I am not taking with me all the effects of ECB policy, then the argument of higher incomes and more employment on balance is nothing or little. And if I were less nice, which I don't want, I'd notice that it had an extra depressing effect on the levels of coverage. Remains the assumed higher return due to the higher valuations of bonds, shares and real estate in particular thanks to ECB policy. I have dealt with this in more detail both in writing and in the debate. Of course, valuations of capital titles of all kinds and sizes under this extreme monetary violence have increased. It is likely that this has led to a higher return on pension funds over the last ten years. It is also logical that the long-term return on pension funds will be slightly lower over a future period, not least because fixed interest rates will make the values less valuable if interest rates rise, I say with Mr Omtzigt. However, I do not think that this is an argument for assuming that the long-term return over, for example, 20, 30 years or more is going to be below 2%. And I'm not going to draw that conclusion alone by a long shot. Thomas Piketty, the favourite economist of Mr Grashoff's group chairman, feels the same way after extensive empirical monks' work. The answer to Mr Van Dijk's question as to whether, in my view, a bottom interest rate is also desirable without monetary enlargement of the ECB is yes. However, my proposal for an initiative has been deliberately separated from the system debate. My proposal is only a response to the European Central Bank's policy. Mr Omtzigt felt that in recent months there had been so much improvement in both the return of the funds and the rate of interest in the forward rate structure that such a draft law was superfluous. If we were to be 100% sure, we would not have tabled the bill, I would say to Mr Omtzigt. But there is one problem: it can go wrong again in Greece, Italy or another weak euro brother. Financial markets can take turns that central bank governors believe in our time that they need to respond politically to them. The risk that the ECB will extend its buy-back policy again instead of phasing-out is real. There is even a risk that they will have to go further and further in order to achieve their desired effects. Indeed, the impact of the bill will decrease slightly on paper if interest rates increase now. But that's just on paper. For the time being, the threat of unnecessary pension reductions remains above this manipulated market, leading to unnecessary uncertainty among citizens about their income. My colleagues and I all have no idea what monetary policy is going to do, let alone what the market reactions are and what period of time it will all be spread over. The Fed just reversed a few percent of her buy-in program. The market is now eagerly waiting for what would happen if the Fed and the ECB both were to choke at the same time. It's and gets exciting. Current interest rate developments can represent a definitive trend break, a temporary trend break or no trend break at all. It is particularly volatile and we believe that there are far too few good reasons for putting this monetary volatility on the board of retired and, I would stress, working participants. Can I say that the first gain of this debate is that Mr Grashoff and his party have become more nuanced on the pension dossier, if I may put it that way? I have, of course, fully supported him in his request within the Committee on Social Affairs to continue to launch and deepen the issue of interest rates and the FTC as part of the round table. Earlier this evening it also came up for discussion. I think that's pure profit. I also congratulate him on the sharp and eloquence of questions he has put to Minister Koolmees in response to the article by Han de Jongh. Apart from the details, we feel that the front has become wider than when 50PLUS brought forward this initiative legislative proposal at the end of 2016. Mr. Chairman. What we're doing here is just one thing. No more and no less. We are proposing a temporary arrangement, which means that, in particular, large pension funds which are not under water, which have a coverage rate of around 100%, will not have to reduce payments and claims as long as Mr Draghi is turning the buttons. We don't let pension funds spend money that isn't there. We prevent pension funds from keeping money in cash that there is. The only goal now is to prevent 10 million participants and pensioners from facing discounts by 2020 if the coverage rate remains below 104.2% over the next three years. The reference date shall then be 31 December each year. These 10 million people are still in great uncertainty for three years and I want to remove that uncertainty with this bill. We shouldn't let those 10 million people dangle. Mr. Chairman. I quote Mr Van Weyenberg from a double interview in Our Retirement, an interview with me and him: 'If a pension fund has irreversibly decided on the transition to a renewed system, I would like to make it very clear that they do not have to cut short just in advance because of old rules of the game'. This quote shows that D66 subordinates the question of whether to shorten or not to the debate on the new system. My group hopes that the threatening reductions for 10 million Dutch people will not be subordinated to the reform of the system. Finally, Mr President. My initiative proposal, in summary, as former Minister Jan de Koning van Sociale Zaken put it, means that if it cannot be done as it should be done, then it must be done as it can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I think there are some interruptions. Mr Van Kent could hardly contain himself. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have much of an interruption, but I'd like to correct something. I have put forward a number of possible solutions in a questioning form and indicated that we may be considering an amendment. So it is not the case that we are now going to make a proposal to permanently regulate in this initiative law how we deal with calculation rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u6	Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen acknowledges that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u7	Yes. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u8	I'll take a look at the other MPs. You have kept a very clear story, but Mr Van Dijk also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen for answering the written questions. That is very enlightening and good for the debate. I asked a question in my first term. I understand that we are really going to talk about Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal, but of course we are going to talk about a new pension contract soon. Do I fully understand Mr Van Rooijen's answers that, as initiator, he is prepared to look at the level of security when we talk about a new contract? We're not gonna talk about that right now. That is not in Mr Van Rooijen's proposal either, but it is very important for me and my group that we should perhaps be able to work together there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u10	Thank you. Then Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u11	Mr. Chairman. We discussed this with each other earlier, even in the previous debate two weeks ago. I have already recognized with you at that time that there is a dependence........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr Van Dijk saw that I tabled a motion this evening, supported by some colleagues: Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Kent. No, not Mr. Van Kent. It was Mr. De Jong. We want an investigation and a committee of economists to look at the discount rate for the valuation of pension liabilities, taking into account the measures of security. Plural, sizes of certainty. Depending on the degree of certainty in the various angles, this relationship can therefore result in a different discount rate method.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u12	Thank you. Mr Van Dijk no longer has a question. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. He has also received a number of questions and is here as an advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u13	Thank you, Madam President. There were indeed a lot of questions asked by the Chamber in the first term. I'm gonna answer that. I'm trying to do that a little smoothly, but I'm trying to be careful. But first of all, before I start, I would like to thank the initiator for the much work he has done. I have often spoken with Mr Van Rooijen in a previous life as a Member of Parliament about the pension system, when he was chairman of the Koepel van Nederlandse Verenigingen van Gepensioneren, the KNVG. I have always had very nice intellectual debates with Mr Van Rooijen. The initiator has a noble goal in mind: how can we prevent pensions from being reduced if it turns out that funds have five consecutive years of coverage below the minimum required equity? And how do we capture indexing faster? Indeed, with the current levels of coverage, some of the funds run the risk of having to make this reduction by 2020 or later. However, the favourable development of the coverage rate in the past year has reduced that risk. Mr Omtzigt has already asked questions about this, which I will come back to later. I also understand that people find it difficult to buy that their pension is still not indexed, while things are improving in the Netherlands. Fortunately, the AOW is increased annually, so that part of the old age income grows with prosperity. But most pensions have not been able to index in recent years. I also recognize the figures mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen; at the ABP it is almost 15%. As sympathetic as the goal is, the road to that, the bill, I cannot support, because turning on the interest rate button is not a solution. I would like to emphasise that this discussion cannot be separated from the nature of the pension contract and the wider pension system. The pension funds manage one collective asset of all their participants, in which we share risks together. This capacity must be sufficient to pay the pensions of the current pensioners and of the young people who retire in 45 years' time. This means that the pensions of the young people of today must also be paid out of the collective pot. That is why we need to handle this ability wisely. You have to stop spending all the money you think you can make in the future. After all, this leads to redistribution, and I shall come back to this in more detail in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u14	There is an interruption by Mr De Jong, but he puts Mrs Van Brenk first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u15	Mr President, I have not heard you say how often we are allowed to interrupt, but I think it is very important to correct something right from the start. The Minister says that the proposal of 50PLUS has been made to make indexing possible faster, but I would just like to make it very clear that this initiative legislative proposal has only one objective in mind, and that is to prevent pension reductions for 10 million people. That's what this is for. In fact, it is only for the part that the ECB does, because as soon as Mr Draghi stops turning buttons, this bill is really off the table as far as we are concerned. So it's really just a very temporary measure. I would like to know whether the Minister is sufficiently aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u16	I fully realize that. In fact, on both points, I will be returning to my answer in a moment, both on temporaryity and on size and on buying-in policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u17	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen for the kindest words he has just said about the PVV and myself. That's great. That's the first thing. But then back to the Minister, because it looks like we're going to have a reasonable debate in the next few hours and it's not getting off to a good start. And why? Because Mr Koolmees, the Minister, knows very well what he is doing. He is linking it to the discussion about the system itself. One of the first sentences he uttered was: I can't separate it from the contracts. But that's not what the debate is about. However much I understand that the cabinet wants to talk about this, or perhaps does not want to talk about it, that is not what the debate is about. The debate is about a temporary measure to ensure that 10 million people are not cut short on their pensions. This is certainly a solution for them. So I would like to hear from the Minister that for the rest of the debate he is no longer going to talk about changing the system or not, but is only going to focus specifically on the proposal before us, to ensure that 10 million people do not have to be cut short in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u18	I cannot agree to this because, as I have just said, this discussion cannot be separated from the nature of the pension contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u19	It seems that at the beginning of the reply this Minister is not prepared at all to give an opinion that does justice to this proposal. And why do I say that? This debate is not about the pension system. Nor is this debate about the fact that many people have not seen their pensions go forward in the last ten years. The point is that we can avoid discounts in the near future. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u21	If we are going to discuss the future stability of the system, then I would like to link it up. If you do not accept the measure contained in this proposal, I could easily imagine that a lot of people would have no confidence in it if they were to see that reduction in the future. But that is not what the proposal is about either. The point is: how are we going to ensure that people are not cut short in the short term? Does the Minister want to talk about this in the next few hours? That's what the debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u22	I wanted to talk as little as possible about the future of the system, but, as I have said twice, this discussion cannot be separated from the nature of the pension contract and the fact that we are saving pensions in collective pots. I am about to make some comments on this in response to questions that have been asked by the Chamber in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u23	I think it is important to make a comment. If the Minister puts it that way and links two things that we say are separate from each other, then I think it is a form of blackmail. He says 10 million people are being cut short, and is using this moment to make sure we go to another system. I really think that's a form of blackmail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u24	Sorry, Mr President, I have just said very specifically that I do not need to talk about the future of the system tonight. I have merely indicated that this debate on the interest rate has to do with the nature of the contract and the promises and commitments that have been made. I should like to comment on that in a moment in response to the questions that have been put to me. I don't want to talk about the future of the system. We're gonna talk about that in detail soon. But, and this is a logical moment to continue, to protect members of the current pension contract, the financial review framework exists. The discount rate, or discount rate, is only part of that. As you have seen in the evaluation I have recently sent you, it is a broader palette than just the discount rate. You should also consider the recovery periods or the opportunities to spread shocks. And, I noticed in the first period, the current system does take into account the return that pension funds make on their shares and bonds. Many pension funds do indeed have an indexing ambition. If a fund makes more returns than is required to meet the obligations, this can be used for the indexation. If, therefore, higher returns are indeed made, if higher returns are indeed made on shares and bonds on risk-free interest rates, then this means a more favourable financial position of pension funds and thus a higher chance of preventing discounts or showing indexing again. In recent years, this has also happened to some funds. Nor do many funds, partly because of other factors that you should also consider, such as increasing commitments and increasing life expectancy. It's gonna be a different story if you start charging a higher calculus rate in advance. In this case, pension funds calculate their current pension liabilities on the basis of an expected return that is uncertain whether this will be realised in the future. So returns do participate in the coverage rate and thus in the risk of shorting or indexing ambition, but if you go ahead to book that, then you take a mortgage on the future. This does indeed increase the level of cover on paper, but in reality the funds have not suddenly become richer. Funds may be able to spend more money, but it is not certain whether this return will actually be achieved. I believe that by doing so, we are denying economic and financial reality and, therefore, placing a mortgage on the future. That is, by the way, I would like to finish a few sentences, Mr President, also the conclusion of earlier research by the Central Planning Bureau. According to the Central Planning Bureau, a bottom in the calculation rate leads to shifts in pension funds between generations. Now the initiator states that this shift in the proposal is very minimal. The CPB also states that the generation slide at a bottom of 2 percentage points for five years is up to 1%; Mr Van Weyenberg asked a question about this. To be honest, there is not much room between the CPB, Mr Van Weyenberg's statement and the applicant's statement. The CPB states that a temporary soil in the calculation rate of 2 percentage points has limited generation effects. The downside is that it doesn't do much on the other side either. Those are two sides of the same coin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u25	First of all, I believe that the applicant has an advisor who is at least not prepared to support the proposal, let alone to respond to the proposal and inform the Court of Justice about it. Because we are now going to have a very wide-ranging pension debate, if the Minister intends to continue the answer in this way. But my question was about the returns. That was a few points ago; the Minister went very quickly. The Minister is right to say that we are not sure what returns will be achieved in the future. But that also applies to risk-free interest rates. For example, negative returns can also be achieved in the future. So there is no guarantee in any way. So the Minister should not pretend that laying a soil is the same as predicting guarantees, other than that the current interest rate also predicts guarantees that are not harsh either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u26	A complex set of safeguards is included in the current ftk and pension system: recovery periods, the distribution of shocks and the protection of property rights. In doing so, the level of coverage of the pension funds shall be valued at market value for the assets and liabilities of the pension What do we have in value of shares and bonds on one side of the balance sheet and what do we have in liabilities on the other side of the balance sheet? Those obligations are indeed reflected in the risk-free interest rate achieved in the market. Something else is that higher returns can indeed be achieved, which also come back one-on-one in the balance sheet of pension funds on the equity and bond side. I just tried to explain that. If that goes very well, it will lead to more room to reduce or index discounts. But if you're going to artificially calculate a higher expected return than you actually realized, then you're going to mortgage the future and you're going to have a shift over generations. That may be a political choice, but that is not the choice of the cabinet. And I'm here as an advisor to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u27	Risk-free interest rates are not the same as guaranteed returns up to the length of days. The Minister here assumes that he is. The point I wanted to make is that neither the soil intended by the author of the bill nor the risk-free interest rate is a guaranteed long-term return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u28	Guaranteed returns do not exist. But if, at the moment, we set the value of the assets at the level of cover against the liabilities, so when we take the balance sheet, we count on those risk-free returns in the financial review framework, because the asset side of the balance sheet is also valued at market value. Mr Omtzigt made a clear statement on this at first reading. He said: if market interest rates go down, for example, this affects the value of the bonds on the balance sheet. If, for example, you have old bonds on the balance sheet at 4%, I think that was Mr Omtzig's example and market interest rates are falling, then the value of those bonds is rising. In other words, the wealth side of pensions increases. On the other hand, something is happening with the obligations. And you have to keep an eye on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u29	Without wanting to do a jumping-to-conclusion thing on the one hand, I would like to challenge the Minister not to do so on the other. It is a historical fact that pension fund returns have been very, very long-term above risk-free interest rates. Does the Minister agree with me that, if this is the case with a high degree of probability in the years to come, the calculation should not be illogical and should not count with that return also mean that between generations money is being shifted, but in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u30	I do not agree with Mr Grashoff. The moment a return is realised, whether on shares or bonds, is indeed reflected in the balance sheet. It is thus reflected in the level of coverage of the pension fund. If the efficiency is achieved, this means that there is room not to shorten or index. If you use the thesis that it's gonna come in, but you're not sure if it's gonna come in and you're gonna cash it out, you run the risk that you're actually gonna drop the bill on younger generations. In our pension system, securing or protecting generations is anchored throughout the ftk, not only in the interest rate, but also in the recovery periods, in absorbing shocks. So I do not agree with Mr Grashoff's analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u31	However, this is an interesting discussion. Because the opposite should also be true, and I hope the Minister agrees with me. I have also tried to discuss this in the first instance in an interruption in the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg. Suppose, in 30 years' time, we find that, over these 30 years, yields have actually been higher than risk-free interest rates. Shouldn't you note that during those years you de facto paid less than you could have paid the older generation entitled to a pension or almost entitled to a pension, even in the case of a fair distribution between generations? If the Minister agrees with me, would he like to see both sides of the coin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u32	That reminds me a bit of the first-term discussion on Mr Sluimers' statement in 2009. In 30 years, we'll be able to look back on what happened. Then you can say with a certain degree of certainty what happened and what could have happened. Mr Sluimers said that is paraphrased, because I do not have the quote at hand in 2009, indeed: the interest rate is now so low I say 3.5% out of my head that it can only go up. In retrospect, we can see that interest rates have only fallen. So yes, you can say afterwards what happened, but it could also be that interest rates remain very low long-term, or that life expectancy is suddenly rising very rapidly. So you can't say anything about this in advance except that we're trying to maintain a balance between generations in our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u33	Mr. Grashoff, you have quite long interruptions. Mrs Van Brenk also asked me how many interruptions are allowed. I give you the space and I want to deal with it flexibly, because it is about an initiative legislative proposal. But I'm asking you to keep the interruptions shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u34	I shall end with one very brief final remark. The comparison made by the Minister is completely illogical, and I am getting a little angry about it. Because that's exactly the kind of discussion we shouldn't be having. I am not talking about Mr Sluimers, who made bizarre statements about interest rates that can never go down. I am trying with the Minister to build up a reasoning which I believe is very important for a balanced pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u35	I didn't hear a question. I have tried to outline what I think is the risk of precalculating with a higher expected return and thus of taking into account, as it were, future potential returns on shares and bonds in the balance sheet of a pension fund. If you do that, you run the risk of handing out money that just isn't there yet. Something else is next, and I've already tried to explain it twice. At the time when returns are indeed made on shares and bonds, this is indeed taken into account in the coverage of pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u36	Thank you. I shall give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk and then to Mr Van Dijk. Then I would like to ask the Minister to pursue his story, otherwise we will be stuck in the interruptions for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u37	I come to the same conclusion as Mr Grashoff. The minister's only looking at one side of the coin. He says: the young are being failed. But at the moment, the elderly are being cut short. I'd like to have a reaction to that. We have given the Minister a report in which nineteen different experts and a number of institutions, the EIB and so on, deal with this. I would like to quote one of the experts here, Prof. Mr. René Maatman, because I have had lessons from him at Erasmus University. He writes: "We count our poor with our retirement, while we are very rich." There are all quotes in it from people who say that an entire generation of older people is now lacking. I would like to ask the Minister: are all these people completely wrong, or do you have to admit that 50PLUS really has a point here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u38	I am talking about why I disagree with Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal. I have some arguments for that. Moreover, I would not support Mrs Van Brenk's assertion that older people are being deprived. The fact that there has been no indexing in recent years does indeed apply to older people, but also to workers. Workers also lack pension structure, because pensions are not indexed for workers. In other words, generation balance is the starting point in the very broad ftk, the policy we have established here in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u39	We have to watch out for all generations. The same applies to this legislative proposal, but the core of the initiative proposal is to avoid possible reductions by 2020. That's what I'd like to challenge the Secretary of State. The Minister states that it is very difficult in this contract to count the interest rate, but there are also other rules in this ftk, namely with regard to the recovery period. In 2016, when discounts were also threatened, this Chamber discussed extending the recovery periods as a kind of crisis measure, i.e. from 10 years to 11 years or from 10 to 12 years. Will the Minister be prepared to take a look at this and to avoid these discounts for all those pensioners because we are working on a new system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u40	On the one hand, I am blamed for not having to include the future of the system in the debate because it concerns Mr Van Rooijen's bill, but on the other hand Mr Van Dijk is now asking me to reflect on the new system. That makes it uncomfortable for me. In a broad sense, it is true that in 2014 my predecessor, Mrs Klijnsma, introduced an extension of the recovery period at the nftk. The recovery period then went to ten years and the symmetry in "when do we shorten and when do we index?" was also laid down in the financial review framework. Of course, these rules are not for nothing, because the levels of coverage of pension funds have suffered a huge blow as a result of the financial and economic crisis in 2009, 2010. The funds lost 30% of their coverage at the time. We are now gradually catching up with these deficits. To be honest, I do not think it is wise to take parts out of the structure that Mrs Klijnsma has created and balanced. I have the same criticism of this discussion about the recovery period as Mr Van Rooijen's bill because it is all connected. So I wouldn't want to see it in isolation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u41	Can I ask you both to really limit you to Mr Van Rooijen's fine initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u42	Yeah, I think it's wise to do that today. The temptation is very great to have a really big pension debate with each other, but we are going to do so quickly. I was therefore also trying to focus on the objective of the law, which is an ugly thing to say, and to look precisely at how we can avoid possible reductions in the future. This has already been calculated by the CPB. As a possible crisis measure, that is also what Mr Van Rooijen is doing with the interest rate, which could also be reminiscent of adjusting the recovery period. I'll give you that as advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u43	There are several ways of adjusting the rules in order to prevent this, but I would like to make one thing clear in advance, and so I come to that in response to Mr Omtzigt's questions about the current levels of coverage and about what has happened in recent times in its recovery. We're having this discussion in 2020. We have agreed on a balanced distribution between generations. I do not think it would be wise to anticipate this and to debate parts of it now if the debate is not discussed until later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u44	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u45	I have just argued that turning the interest rate button may have generational effects, but frankly I do not think that is the main reason why the cabinet cannot support this proposal. This legislative proposal introduces a button to determine the conditions under which the calculation rate should be increased and to what extent. Politics then determines the extent to which pension assets are transferred between generations, especially in the current contract. In other words, it opens the door to a subjective change in the calculation rate for pension funds, leading the financial interests of subgroups within the pension system. The cabinet is not in favour of this direction, because then the calculation rate becomes a playball of conflicting interests within the pension system, which further undermines confidence in the system. The Council of State also explicitly warns about this point in its opinion. The legislative proposal has been formulated so openly that there are insufficient safeguards to ensure that these effects are really so limited. I am also really worried that this bill will bring in a Trojan horse. That is why I once again advise against this proposal. There's a few more blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u46	Really with all due respect: there are currently 10 million people who see that for the coming years there is just another discount at the door. The only thing this debate is about is whether the Minister, as an advisor, could seriously give his opinion on the proposal made by 50PLUS to prevent that reduction. And what does the Minister do? He's talking about a Trojan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u47	A Trojan horse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u48	...a Trojan horse being driven in. He says, "I'm afraid; it's dangerous." It is outrageous and unworthy of a minister to approach the proposal in such an incredibly political way. The only thing that we Members ask in this Chamber is whether this Minister would like to look seriously at the proposal and not ride off in the first situation and talk about the ordinary system, while the proposal is not at all about it. You may have a hard time looking at it, but I'm very annoyed about it, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u49	Can you do it through the chairman and not make it too personal, Mr. De Jong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u50	Mr President, I am very irritated about it. And why is that? Because it is stated that we should not touch any button at all, while in the last ten years, when it comes to the labour market, pension or whatever, nothing has been done but to touch all the buttons, giving people a huge position of uncertainty, thanks to politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u51	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u52	All we ask is: what is your advice? Don't waste our time playing political games like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u53	Mr. De Jong, you may have a different opinion, but the Minister is still talking about his own words. Let us have the debate with each other in a pleasant way, through the President. I understand the emotion, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u54	The Minister gives the impression that Mr Van Rooijen's proposal would be a Trojan horse. I think he is opening a whole political debate during this debate. I would like to argue that the artificially low fee, which D66 is co-responsible for for years, is the Trojan horse. This will reduce confidence in our pensions. This means that this discount does indeed threaten more than 10 million people. If we want to have a political discussion here, I am sure I will. Then let's do that on this subject. Either the Minister addresses Mr Van Rooijen's proposal, or we are actually having a debate here on the interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u55	I don't think I heard any questions. I also ask the Minister to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u56	Seriously. Mr Van Rooijen's proposal concerns the interest rate. So I am responding to Mr Van Rooijen's bill, which is about raising the rate of calculation. And then I get the accusation that I'm talking about the calculus rate. To be honest, I think it's kind of a turnaround of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u57	I feel like it's all gonna get a little personal right now. I'd like to ask you to let the Minister tell his story. I think he's in a bit of a finishing phase, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u58	I've got three more cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u59	We're also repeating ourselves a little bit. Again, I understand the emotion, but it is important that we continue to hold the debate in a calm manner. It concerns Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal. Let us limit ourselves to that as much as possible. I'd like to ask you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u60	Let me just say that when we ask questions, I always appreciate it when I just get an answer. Some colleagues may not, but I think that's a pretty normal way to do it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u61	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u62	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on three blocks of concrete questions that have been put to me. The first block is the calculation rate and the ECB policy, the second is the nature of the contract, and the third is the state of play with regard to pension funds. Let's talk about the block of interest and ECB policy. In the run-up to the first term of this debate, I sent written answers to Mr Grashoff and to the Chamber. He also asked me a number of questions in the first term. Mr Grashoff hears a lot of different noises about the interest rate. Experts don't seem to agree. That is why he asked me whether the debate on the calculation rate could be conducted at all in an objective way and whether I could see possibilities of doing so. I read the same newspapers and the same websites as Mr Grashoff. I know what he's saying. This discussion continued even after the first-term review. I don't think there's any point in passing through all the general contributions. I would like to say three things about it in general. First of all: there are indeed different sounds about the accounting rate to be heard in the media. I stress that these are different sounds. The common sense among economists and actuaries is that calculating with a higher calculation rate has the effect that returns to be achieved are already being credited and that a mortgage is being taken on the future. If there is a collective pot, I repeat: if there is a collective pot, this will lead to redistribution. I can refer to a series of publications from the Central Planning Bureau and the Actuarial Society, as well as from many researchers who are members of Netspar. I'll give you some names: prof. Van Wijnbergen, prof. Kocken, prof. Bovenberg, prof. Nijman and prof. Werker. Joshua Roe, professor at Stanford University, is one of the foreign names who advocates risk-free interest rates. I'll be back to the American situation in a moment, by the way. It is a political choice to say: we accept redistribution. That could be a choice. However, this raises the question of how high the calculation rate should be and who determines it. This is a subjective issue, in which the financial interests of sub-groups will be led. Politics will then determine to what extent and under what conditions money is distributed between generations. Again, that does not seem desirable to me. Finally, I understand the desire to avoid major shocks in pension outcomes. However, this can also be done by making good agreements on the spread of these shocks, as we did in the ftk. That happened ten years ago, for example. I told you, the coverage rate fell by 30 percentage points. At that time, it was important for pensioners to be protected. The funds continued to pay pensions, even though they were not strictly funded enough. But the recovery period allowed that blow to be caught. So you can't look at it in isolation. The reason for the initiative law is the ECB's buy-back policy. However, I would like to stress that the rate of calculation reflects the economic reality. My position will not surprise you. Interest rates have been declining in developed economies since the beginning of the 1980s. Interest rates are currently at a historically low level, but this is a real and international phenomenon that affects everyone worldwide. Low interest rates make building pensions more expensive: if you have lower interest rates, you have to invest more money to achieve a certain ambition. That is also the reality that the funds are currently dealing with. This also applies, for example, if you want to save a certain amount of capital yourself. For everyone, for funds and individuals, savings for later on will be less. It is also important to take into account the wider effects of ECB policies, for example for the positive impact on economic recovery and equity prices. I agree with the words of Mr Omtzigt in the first term that there are risks too. We've talked about that a lot, even here in the Chamber. But you can also see an effect of low interest rates on the real economy. Think about the discussion about house prices or the valuation of bonds. These effects are difficult to quantify, but still very relevant. As regards the American situation, to which a number of Members have asked, I would like to say the following. In the US, government pension funds calculate the value of their liabilities with a pre-determined accounting rate. That interest shall be equal to the expected return on investments. This interest rate has been reduced since the financial crisis and is now 7%. This 7% interest rate not only means that there is far too little capital in the American pension pots, but also that the pension promised cannot be fulfilled. There is a substantial reduction, or pension funds are investing more and more riskily in the hope that they will be able to make up for the deficit. Let me give you some examples. Detroit's pension fund has a coverage rate of just over 60%. California's pension fund has voluntarily decided to apply a lower accounting rate. This kind of problem, which we also see in the UK, I want to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u63	This is a natural moment to give Mr Grashoff the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u64	If you handle the pension system carefully and wisely, you're not going to make proposals for calculating interest rates of 7% and American situations. They are indeed totally disproportionate. The Minister says that if you assume something other than risk-free interest rates, there is a shift between generations. Does the Minister agree with me that in a collective system, regardless of any assumption you make, there are redistribution effects and that they are therefore subject to political consideration? There is no objective reality in this: in this way we have no transfer between generations. Because there will always be, and it is up to us to make sensible choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u65	In general, I agree with Mr Grashoff's analysis. There are a lot of redistribution effects in the system. Think, for example, of the debate on life expectancy. Life expectancy has risen sharply over the last 20 to 30 years. In the case of people who have accumulated a pension in the past, a much shorter pension period has been taken into account than at present. That is also a redistribution effect. Another redistribution effect lies in pooling risks, such as longevity risk. In this, the element of solidarity also leads to redistribution. What I find the difference between these forms of redistribution and the debate on interest rates is that in the calculation rate debate a market valuation of assets and liabilities was chosen at any time. That's one. Two. It is part of a broader framework, the financial review framework on recovery periods, the absorption of shocks and thus the safeguarding of general balances. So there's some red tape in it? Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u66	I welcome this answer. In any case, this means that both generations will have to see both sides of the coin when we talk about redistribution effects. That would also be my plea, because this debate is, as far as I am concerned, just a slap in the face of the wider debate on the pension system. I was wondering if the Minister could go along with that argument that, under the conditions we now apply with the FTC, there is also redistribution between generations. It then takes place in the opposite direction, i.e. from older workers and pensioners to young people. There may also be a situation in which security requires a capital such that the capital will no longer reach its ultimate objective, i.e. to pay in the form of a pension. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u67	Frankly, I did not quite understand Mr Grashoff's last question. Let me take another example. If there are negative shocks in the pension system that lead to cover, i.e. to coverage below 100%, we have agreed that we have a recovery period to grow back in a certain number of years. Mr Van Rooijen also said something about this in his first term. We therefore have a premium coverage rate which does take into account expected returns over the next ten years. These redistribution aspects are also included. But my argument of the whole evening is actually that the system on all these different elements is symmetrical. In the future, calculating with a higher than expected risk-free interest rate would actually mean that you are already going to book returns. Perhaps Mr Grashoff can say afterwards that it has indeed been so, but he can also say afterwards, perhaps, I do not know, because I do not have an interest-rate view of the fact that we have kept the same low interest rates for ten years. Then Mr Omtzigt's speech will be taken in the first term. The fact that pension funds have had high yields in recent years is also due to the simultaneous reduction in interest rates, which has made the bonds on the balance sheet more valuable. Well, then it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u68	The Minister made a full statement on balance, young, old and redistribution aspects. We haven't indexed in the last ten years. Now there's a threat of new discounts. For the people of the metal that would be a discount for the second time. An entire generation is about to die because of this. The Minister talks about redistribution effects, but they no longer have time to deal with this recovery. I hope the Minister is aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u69	In Mrs Van Brenk's question about non-indexation, the assumption is that this affects only pensioners, but that is not true. Workers are also affected by the non-indexation of pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u70	I hear a repetition, so I ask you, Minister, to come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u71	Yeah, I'm moving on. I still have two short notes. First, the nature of the contract. I have already argued at the beginning that risk-free interest rates as discount rates are, of course, also linked to the nature of the current contract, in which the security plays a role. Mr Gijs van Dijk rightly noted this in the first term. This level of certainty is one of the reasons why we use risk-free interest rates. Another reason, in addition, concerns collective risk sharing. Because even in the collective variant of the Improved Premium Scheme Act, where there is an explicit variable and therefore more uncertain benefit, the starting point is a risk-free interest rate. This has been a conscious choice, because in a system with collective risk sharing a higher discount rate than risk-free interest rates by definition leads to a structural redistribution from young to old. This argument therefore also applies to this point. After all, the total amount of available capital is no different, but with a higher rate of calculation it is only distributed differently among the participants in the collective. That way, you'd be redistributing money that you haven't earned yet. Finally, a number of questions about the state of pension funds. Mr Omtzigt asked about the current state of the financial position of pension funds. The background to his question is whether the reductions to be avoided by the Initiative Act are still being discussed at the moment. Mr Van Rooijen's initiative law is explicitly designed to avert a possible discount. This reduction would be considered if the policy coverage rate of a fund was below 104.2% for five years. The measurement time for this is the coverage rate of the end of the year. Ultimo 2017 there were 54 funds with a policy coverage below 104.2. This means that they are still at risk of having to make a reduction in the absence of recovery in a few years' time. At the end of January, however, the current coverage rate of all funds was 111%. I think that is a positive sign, although the level of policy coverage really counts at the end of the year, because it will then be taken into account. Moreover, the profits of January and February have already partly evaporated, as global stock prices have decreased. We have also seen in recent years that fluctuations in financial markets can have a major impact on the financial position of the funds. Mr President, I think that answers the questions. Many more questions have been asked, but for the sake of completeness I will stick to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u72	We have almost reached the end of this, but Mrs Van Brenk still has an afterburner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u73	Mr. President, if I may. I would very much like to ask Minister Koolmees the following. I believe it was two weeks ago that we were on the Square. I was there, with the activists of the FNV for a good pension. They're having action meetings tonight in all the provinces. I'd much rather have been there. They had one point to you. I would like to know how you see it in relation to this initiative proposal. They had only one message to you: we do not accept any deterioration. How do you see that in that speech? You said I'd put the ball with you, too. But this is really an initiative proposal to take that deterioration off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u75	You could have grabbed this outstretched hand. I want to know how you justify that to all those people who were on the Square.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u76	Now Mrs. Van Brenk is doing the same thing she just accused me of. Mr Van Rooijen's discussion concerns the calculation rate in the current pension contract. The discussion at the Square was about the future pension system. I did indeed have an interesting conversation with 150 activists from the FNV. In that I said: it is interesting that you are interfering in this discussion and I take note of your demands. But I also said that your union, the FNV, is currently negotiating the future pension system in the ESC. This is also the responsibility of the trade unions, so they are present. I think that's a good thing. That's what the Cabinet's been trying to do. I therefore await the opinion with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-42.u77	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first deadline for Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal. I have indicated that the second deadline should be scheduled at a later date. I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen and his staff, as well as the Minister for his role as advisor, MPs and viewers at home.
