ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is a very brief reopening of the legal process Amendment of the Pension Act (34934).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen, because he was the one who asked for this reopening. And he's the only speaker. You have some sort of status separate, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. After the long debate last night with the Prime Minister and this morning again, now a debate with the Minister for Social Affairs. I sometimes wonder if I should store my tents here in the Chamber, but that aside. I'm the only speaker. That's special, too. Lonely, but not alone. Several experts have taken the view that there is indeed conflict... Oh, excuse me, Mr. Chairman! I took the wrong leaf. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering my questions. I welcome his clear answers to question 3, in which he immediately acknowledged that the VwEU, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is part of the primary law of the European Union, and that the directives are part of the secondary law of the European Union. The Minister writes: "It is therefore right that the directive should not be contrary to that European Treaty, because it is of a higher order." But then the Minister does not give in, because he also says: 'I have no reason to believe that the directive is in breach of the European Treaty'. The rest of the reply letter must therefore be seen as an extreme attempt to speak straight, which is crooked. In Question 1, he says that "internal situations, i.e. situations where all aspects take place in one Member State, are not affected by freedoms'. That's right, but this is not the point at all. The point is that cross-border transfers do not take place within one Member State and therefore affect the freedom of the Treaty or the freedom to provide services. That's what we're talking about. The proposed rules limit the possibility of making transfers to foreign pension providers. Therefore, for those foreign providers there is an obstacle to their ability to offer pension services, which does not apply to domestic providers. This cannot be justified, as the Minister acknowledges, on the grounds that the directive allows it, on the understanding that the proposal contained in the second letter of amendment goes far beyond what is prescribed by the directive. After all, the Minister acknowledges that a directive must not be contrary to a European treaty as a higher-ranking regulation. The fundamental question I am now putting to the Chamber and the Minister is whether the directive we are discussing, which we are implementing with a law, is not contrary to the Treaty. The Minister replied that the Advisory Section of the Council of State had already considered this, but, Minister, the opinion of the Council of State contained no comments on it. My question is what we should derive from that. Several experts have taken the view that there is indeed a conflict with the Treaty: Professor Lutjens, Professor Van Meerten and Master De Greef. These are not the lesser gods in the field of EU and pension law; we all know that in this company. There is therefore at least reason to have the Council of State give explicit advice on this matter. Cross-border value transfers are subject to stricter requirements than domestic ones. According to Professor Van Meerten, this is contrary to European rules. In Pension Pro he recently stated that only one conclusion is possible, I quote: "The same rules must apply to value transfers within and outside the Netherlands." If the cabinet insists on this distinction, a participant could rely on stricter European rules in a collective value transfer within the Netherlands. Master De Greef put it this way. "By attaching fewer conditions to the domestic collective value transfer than to the cross-border, a wrong signal is sent to the other Member States. It seems a bit crampy to me, and that's not right. Within the EU, all Member States are bound by the same minimum requirements on the basis of IORP and Solvency." It is true that 'crampy' is the right word for the Minister's attitude. If such a heavy legal company claims the opposite of the minister, then does he reasonably have no choice but to walk the royal path literally and figuratively? Firstly, does he therefore wish to ask the Council of State for an explicit opinion on whether the directive is contrary to the EU Treaty? Secondly, will the Minister submit the second letter of amendment to the Council of State, as was requested last week in a motion I tabled? In view of the very great importance of the matter, I had proposed to the Chamber that an urgent hearing be held with Professors Van Meerten and Lutjens, as well as Mr De Greef. Unfortunately, this morning there was no majority in favour of this, but the fact that there are sufficient legal difficulties for the opinion of the Council of State is the least. I also assume that next month the Senate will carry out its task seriously. Thank you, Mr President. I do have another motion, finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the amended pension funds directive (IORP II), the Minister assumes that there is no conflict with the EU Treaty (TFEU);]] [[whereas several leading experts in the field of pensions and EU law argue that there is indeed a conflict with the EU Treaty;]] [[calls on the Government to seek advice from the Council of State as to whether this Directive is contrary to EU law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34934-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you very much, Mr Van Rooijen for your questions. In my opinion, this subject and my answers have also been discussed extensively in the second term, so I am going to fall into a repeat of it. Firstly, Mr Van Rooijen explicitly asks: what does it mean that the Council of State does not make any comment on the explanatory memorandum to this bill? I'm gonna go back, just for completeness. The explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal explicitly states that the IORP II Directive distinguishes between domestic and cross-border value transfers. This is stated in Articles 12 and 13 of the IORP Directive, which we discussed in the second period. We have explicitly included this in the explanatory memorandum. That was explicitly reviewed by the Council of State. The Council of State did not comment on this point, nor on the contradiction of the Directive with the EU Treaty. That means that the Council of State does not see that contradiction. Unfortunately, the Council of State does not make any comments on matters which it does not comment on. This has therefore been explicitly presented and the Council of State has not commented on it, although it is an integral part of the directive itself, since it does distinguish between domestic and cross-border value transfers. That was Mr Van Rooijen's question. I have also recently seen the comments of the experts on this issue. The first comment was made before the bill was sent to the Council of State. That is why we explicitly included this principle in the explanatory memorandum. Then I repeat my first answer: that was tested by the Council of State. It has not been found that there is a conflict with EU law. Otherwise, we would have known that on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State. Mr Van Rooijen's third question concerns other domestic requirements. It is true that IORP countries are bound by minimum prudential requirements. However, prudential frameworks still differ from one Member State to another. This has also been one of the critical points in the cross-border transfer of value to Belgium, for example. Mr President, shall I be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	So all in all, the two questions that Mr Van Rooijen has now put in this third term, he has already asked in second term. At that time I replied to both questions that I do not consider necessary, because it was explicitly reviewed by the Council of State in the implementation of the Directive. I therefore consider the motion to be superfluous. That's how I dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	I want to thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	We're going to vote on the motion and the bill tomorrow. I'm suspending the meeting until 2:15. Then we'll vote first. Then comes the arrangement of work and then we proceed in accordance with the planning for today. See you later.
