ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are going to talk about the General Data Protection Regulation Implementing Act. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you're back with us. We have six speakers from the Chamber for this debate. The first speaker is Mrs Buitenweg from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I'll give her the floor. She has requested a ten-minute speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the draft legislation implementing the European Data Protection Regulation in the Netherlands. That Regulation is the result of long negotiations between the European Parliament and the Council. The Lower House has been able to influence this process through the Dutch minister in the Council. We now need to give substance to the scope given to us by the European legislator. It is particularly important that the legal standards for achieving human rights are defined for the most part at European level, not at national level. This is a good time to think back when the European elections are held in more than a year's time. It's about something in Brussels. The purpose of this Regulation is to extend citizens' rights, to modernise privacy rules in a setting where technological developments are moving very fast and to facilitate the operation of businesses in the internal market by setting an equivalent minimum level of protection for all Member States. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the new regulation improves on the current privacy rules. Citizens are given more control over their own data. In future, those who process personal data must first ask the data subjects for their consent and explain what and how the personal data are needed. This regulation allows people to ask for their data to be deleted: the beautifully formulated right to be forgotten. Data processors should be prepared to make personal data available to data subjects to use elsewhere, data portability. Mr. Chairman. We also have some wishes and comments, which I will present today. Although national room for manoeuvre is limited, it is good to discuss the regulation in detail today, so that we, and above all all all companies and organisations processing data and citizens who want to exercise their right, know exactly what the regulation means. Let me start with a subject where the national legislator has enough room and which I have discussed at home this week: the age limit from when children are allowed to consent to processing their personal data without the consent of their parents. In other words, the minimum age for autonomous downloading from an app, subscribing to an online newsletter or even being allowed to google independently. The European Regulation leaves it to the Member States to choose a minimum age as long as it is not less than 13 years old. The Netherlands has chosen not to change the minimum age compared to today. It's called policy-neutral. We're 16 years old. But because the setting changes, because everything now requires explicit consent, that so-called neutrality does lead to a real change. So there's nothing neutral about that. How does it relate permanently to asking for consent to the right of children, think of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in order to be able to develop freely? We think that children from 12 years of age and older are wise enough to be able to talk about a medical treatment or a conversion with parents in the event of a divorce, but for downloading NU.nl we have less fiction in their discernment. The Minister included in last week's letter of amendment an exception for aid and advisory services. That is, in itself, a step in the right direction. At least then young people can ask for help, for example if they want to talk about sexuality or if something has happened, without having to go to their parents first. But what is an advisory service? When young people chat each other about their problems or their feelings, does that include? GroenLinks favours a reduction in age to 13 years. I would ask the Minister to consider this, if only for practical reasons. Because I have seen the various articles in conjunction. This European regulation provides for the law of the EU country in which a head office is located. That's for Facebook in Dublin, for example. There, as in many European countries, there is an age limit of 13 years. Is it true that you have to be for a Dutch internet forum for 16 years, but for Facebook 13 years? I don't think we're getting anywhere with this and doing a lot better to teach kids how to handle social media properly. Hence my amendment. I have also tabled an amendment to broaden the journalistic objection. There must be no doubt that journalists can freely collect their news. A lot of personal data are included. Think of the Panama papers, LuxLeaks or the research into the whereabouts of Jewish people in hiding in Amsterdam. Sensitive information is sometimes included, such as the criminal record. The European regulation leaves more room for exceptions for journalists than the Netherlands currently has. I have not seen that limitation sufficiently motivated. Hence my amendment to make full use of the European space. A third amendment provides for the possibility of an AMvB allowing companies to report when they have provided databases of information to the intelligence and security services. Of course, this can only be done if national security is not compromised. The Intelligence and Security Services Act provides for companies to be asked to provide information. With the exception of communication companies which have an obligation to do so, companies can say no or yes. That is therefore a choice, without any legal obligation. We would like companies to be allowed to say that the information has been given away. Mr. Chairman. One of the most special rights set out in the Regulation is the right not to be subject to an automated decision. This is set out in Article 22 of the Regulation. But what is the implication of this article? According to that Article, decisions from which legal effects are derived may not be based solely on automated processing of personal data. There must always be an act in between. The directive does not say how significant that act must be. According to the Minister, could that act be marginal? Or is it still a matter of substance? I am thinking here of the fuss that arose last year about e-Court. This private court ruled through algorithms. Most of the verdicts did get a stamp from the Almelo court. The legal effect was therefore not complete and only the result of algorithms. Can the Minister explain what is now minimally necessary for e-Court to act in line with the GDPR? Does it mean that in future a substantive test is required by a person or not? Mr. Chairman. Profiling remains possible if it is based on the explicit consent of the data subject. Express consent presupposes that someone can oversee a decision. You need to know what the implications are when you agree on something. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is necessary in this context that algorithms are transparent or at least can be investigated. Does the Minister agree with me on this? Transparency of algorithms is also necessary in order to see and combat any discriminatory effects of automated data processing. For how else can the obligation to address and prevent discriminatory consequences be fulfilled? Automated decision-making should not concern a child. This is set out in recital 71. It doesn't say it's okay with the parents' permission or if the government thinks it's useful, no, it just can't. Will this provision, in the view of the Minister, lead to serious changes in the Netherlands? Does it mean, for example, the use of risk profiles of children used by aid workers in some municipalities? These profiles can also be usefully stigmatizing. Recital 71 is not legally binding in the same way as the Articles of the Regulation. But such a recital could be the beginning of a legal development. According to several experts, children's specific rights are now really one of those issues on which the European Data Protection Board will later issue additional guidelines, also referred to as soft legislation. That brings me to the head of institutional affairs. I would like to make five points very briefly. One. Does the Minister also think that the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken by the European Committee is now very low? GroenLinks would actually like to ask the Minister to lobby in Europe for an adaptation of the rules in order to allow the European Parliament to have a role if these additional guidelines are to be drawn up. It's kind of a fluteback, which we know in other cases. Two. The Dutch Data Protection Authority is the regulator of our privacy rules. She also oversees the government. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it would therefore be appropriate for the House of Representatives to have a role in the appointment of the members and not to leave them to the government alone. We have tabled an amendment to align the procedure with that of the Members of the Court of Auditors. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. It is important that the authority gets right out of the starting blocks. The number of complaints and requests for help is expected to increase rapidly in the coming months. It would be bad if we could not meet this because of lack of capacity. This would undermine confidence in the new rights of citizens. How does the Minister see the capacity now? According to AEF's research report, the budget is below the amount considered to be the minimum required. Will this issue be included in the Spring Note? The Regulation applies to all data processing in the Netherlands, including data processing in areas where the European Union has no control. I find that legally very exciting, because what does that mean in the event of conflicts? Does the European Court of Justice still have control and does the European Charter of Fundamental Rights apply in all these areas? The European regulation does not apply to the BES, our special Dutch municipalities. They keep their own Personal Data Protection Act BES. I would like to hear from the Minister what the reason for this is. How does he assess the risk that two different legal regimes will arise and what its consequences will be for the sharing of data between the countries of the kingdom? I just have a quick question and then I'll finish. It has not been chosen to include the gender as one of the particularly protected personal data. My question to the Minister is why this is so and how it relates to the government's intention to restrict the registration of sex as personal data. Finally. I know there are a lot of concerns about implementation. For many companies, it is a major task to implement this regulation. But this was decided two years ago, so companies could have prepared themselves well already. Many companies have done the same. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there must be some coulance if companies are already well on steam, but have not yet put all the points on the i. But the essence of the directive, which requires companies to prove what data they process, what purpose and how they are secured, should not be put off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Koopmans of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about fundamental issues such as freedom and security. These are essential principles for the VVD. But also practical feasibility and workability, and reducing uncertainty and regulatory burden, are very important to us, and these aspects must be at the heart of today's debate. Let's start with the basics. Privacy is freedom. No one needs to know everything about you, and we need to protect ourselves from the calving of your privacy, which can bring about the rapid digitalisation. Privacy also provides security and security. But it is also freedom to share your data voluntarily with others, for example because you want your sports club and your employer to take your disability or illness into account. Or because you want to join a student association or a music streaming service. Or because you want to be able to easily determine your itinerary with your smartphone. So part of that freedom is that organisations are able to use data, which they are rightly given. This is always true, whether we are talking about SMEs, a patient association, a church association or an online department store. Both the freedom to retain your data and the freedom to share your data and use it for everyone's well-being, we need to secure and monitor it. We want to control what happens to the data, who has access to it and who can do something with it. And you also want to know where you can complain if your data isn't handled properly, because that's how we secure freedom. Then it's the importance. The importance of all this is growing. Due to the huge growth in digitalization, there is more and more data about everyone, which is easy to use for both very useful and very bad purposes. Data is easier to store forever, to link to everything and to spread worldwide. Clear legal frameworks are therefore becoming increasingly important. People, companies and governments have a lot to gain from sharing and analysing data. But at the same time, people are concerned about the information that is being gathered about them. Who at Albert Heijn knows about me? Who is Google selling my information to? And is my data stored, usable and negotiable forever? Rules are needed. Rules must also be clear. As a consumer, product, employee, employer, association or government you want to know what is and is not allowed. And you also want, if you offer or use services across borders, you don't have to deal with other rules everywhere. It is therefore right that data protection law should now be modernised and harmonised. Most of this has already been done by the General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR, which was already adopted in 2016, but will enter into force at the end of May. Today, therefore, we are not dealing with the GDPR, but only with the Implementing Act, which regulates in particular which body supervises compliance. The Implementing Act should also be in force by the end of May. So there's a hurry. If it does not succeed, there would be costly legal uncertainty for all concerned, and legal uncertainty does not want the VVD. Therefore, the VVD supports the policy-neutral implementation of the Implementing Act. This means that as much substance as possible is connected to the current Dutch legislation. Therefore, except for the changes imposed by the GDPR, there is virtually nothing changing. However, despite the fact that this regulation has been in force for two years now, and despite the fact that the Implementing Act is as little as possible changing the standards currently in force, there is still a great deal of uncertainty among people about what is actually the law as of 25 May. In part, this is despite the various information campaigns, but in part it is also because the rules were not always clear, or still are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr Koopmans says that there is not much material change due to the policy-neutral provision. But can he imagine that, because of the requirement that you have to get permission everywhere now, for example for children up to 16 years old, it really does actually produce a slightly different situation than before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	Sure. The rules change with the regulation that was adopted two years ago and is about to enter into force. That's a big change. In that sense, therefore, a lot is changing. The implementing law now before us is actually trying to change as little as possible. That seems to me to be a good choice, given legal certainty now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	But do you agree with me, I say through the President, that in practice it can mean that, precisely if you do not change anything in the Netherlands, the European rules that will enter into force from 25 May can be a major change for young people, so that they suddenly have to ask for permission to download different apps, when they didn't have to before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yes. That is why I would like to propose that we now adopt this implementing law in a policy-neutral and speedy manner. I would also ask the Minister, in the short term, to look at how it works in practice for a few months. I would also like to ask him to see if any further adjustments can and should be made on specific points, for example on-line access for young people. I hope to find Mrs Buitenweg next to me. Mr President, I shall continue. This uncertainty, this uncertainty, is mainly due to the regulation itself. So it is not before now, but it has a lot of vague standards. These standards, of course, have not yet been tested in practice. That doesn't start until the end of May. There is therefore no great practical experience, or any practical experience at all. There are also no indications from the supervisors and no court rulings. Of course, the Implementing Act has not yet been tested either. The Dutch Data Protection Authority must also prove itself in the new environment. There are therefore many questions at the VVD. These questions come from the people in the country, from entrepreneurs, associations, interest groups, governments and many others. I would like to thank the Minister for the previous comprehensive answer to the many written questions that I have already asked him on the basis of those questions from the country, but I would also like to ask a number of questions here, so that we and the people in the country have as much clarity as possible about those rules. I'll start with a few general questions. One. Despite the information campaigns, SMEs, associations, smaller public authorities and other organisations often do not seem to be sufficiently prepared for the coming of the regulation. What more can the Minister and the Personal Data Authority do in the coming months to increase that awareness? Two: can the Minister clarify when a healthcare institution, a company or an association needs data processing? Three: what about the processing of health data by sports organisations, for example in the context of disability sport? Four: how exactly do we do with the possibilities for young people under 16 to make online profiles, for example to ask for advice from aid agencies outside their parents? Mrs Buitenweg mentioned this point just now. Five: Given the many hacks and data leaks we hear from every day, is sufficient attention paid to the safe storage of data? We can arrange how to use them very well, but if they are insecurely stored, it doesn't do you much good. So is the coming law sufficiently regulated where those data are managed, who is the owner, who has access and how this should be maintained internally? If not, what can we do, together with the Minister, to ensure that this is the case as soon as possible? Six. The Dutch Data Protection Authority has many tasks, including standards, advice, supervision and penalties. Is the separation of powers sufficiently guaranteed? The seventh and last general question is whether we can work together to ensure that there is sufficient experience at the top of the Dutch Data Protection Authority with the application of the law for business and other people in practice and that there is therefore sufficient technical and practical insight to assess the problems of regulation. To this end, I tabled an amendment together with my colleague Van Dam from the CDA and Mr Verhoeven from D66. We want a third board member, for example an entrepreneur, but at least someone with great practical experience in data processing. And then the follow-up. The questions I have just asked are only a part of the questions and concerns that live in the country about this new regulation. It is therefore very good that the Minister has already offered to start a rapid follow-up to include any possible policy choices, to see where there is still national scope for regulation or where he might argue for adaptation at European level and to look very critically at how it all works in practice once it has been implemented. In our view, therefore, this follow-up should start as soon as possible and also lead to results as soon as possible. That is why I would like to ask, together with many of my colleagues here, whether the government can report on possible bottlenecks about six months after the entry into force of the new rules and make proposals on how to deal with them if necessary. I'm thinking of a list here. I am going to mention those points; there are ten. 1. the processing of health data in the context of sport. 2. processing of data by smaller organisations such as voluntary organizations, church societies and other organisations. 3. the processing of workers' health data. 4. the industry-wide creation of blacklists of fraudsters, because we all want to tackle fraudsters. Isn't there more to be done? It's possible. 5. questions on the scope of the Regulation, particularly in view of the exceptions for purely personal or household activities. I understand that this is in the regulation, but if that is not clear, can the Minister look here or in Brussels to see if more clarity can be achieved on this point? 6. the age limit for children so that they can legally use their personal data in an online environment. Shouldn't there be more work done there? 7. the scope of the exemption for small businesses to keep a register for all personal data they process. 8. the scope of the use of personal data for journalistic purposes. 9. the scope of the exceptions to the prohibition of automated decision-making. 10. the possibility of declaring the ex parte prohibition, similar to Article 1090e of the Code of Civil Procedure, applicable to serious breaches of the General Data Protection Regulation. Mr President, this was the last of my ten points, but not the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr Van der Staaij wants to hear them again, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yeah, number three, I lost it for a second! No, it's not about that. I just want it to work out for me. It's quite a laundry list of points the VVD Group says they're actually not clear yet. I agree with him. In itself, support for the idea of clarification, but what does that say about the legal certainty that is now under discussion with the regulation and the implementing law that we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	I certainly agree with Mr Van der Staaij when he says that there are a lot of vague standards in that regulation. The regulation was adopted at European level two years ago by the Member States and the Commissions. We are very critical of this regulation, but it is not for this. We are now talking about the Implementing Act in which we say essentially: there is the Personal Data Authority, there you can complain, there it is maintained. I think this is the time to ask the Minister to consider how we can promote legal certainty as much as possible. For example, by following the practice critically, by asking the Minister what can be changed, but there is one final element. This Implementing Act, which will enter into force in two months' time, must now be implemented politically neutrally so that people know where they stand in this respect. I would very much like to join with Mr Van der Staaij, and also with Mrs Buitenweg and I think with everyone, as much clarity and clarity as possible. That is why I would like to mention these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	Once again, I fully agree with the wish for clarification. I am still looking for a reflection on what legislation this is. We still have so many points of uncertainty and uncertainty, and what conclusion does this lead Mr Koopmans to? Is this a nice legislative process as we should have it more, or does he think it should not go this way at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	I am very critical of this regulation with Mr Van der Staaij. There are a lot of vague standards in it and it brings a lot of uncertainty into the world when it comes into force. There is nothing we can do about it at the moment. This was, by the way, a European regulation adopted in 2016. I wasn't in this house then, and she wasn't hired here either. That regulation must now be implemented. We must do as much as possible to provide security for the people of the country. That is why I have drawn up this list of opinions from many of my colleagues to ask the Minister to take a critical look at it and make proposals on how we can complete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	This is more of a temporary correction in the interests of the democratic legitimacy of this regulation. You said...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Koopmans said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Koopmans said it had been approved by the Council and the European Commission, but it was, of course, also the European Parliament. Now that these critical notes are being cracked, it is worth remembering that the regulation was adopted in 2016. Should we not have discussed this regulation much earlier in the Netherlands? Is it not partly because of the national legislator that we are now so very late, so much is unclear?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u17	I don't want to blame anyone. I don't want to deal with the guilt question right now. I especially want people to have clarity. That is why I am doing my best to give the people as much clarity as possible together with colleagues and hopefully also with the Minister. It is not for me to comment on whether or not the predecessors of any party have done well. People want clarity and let us create that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u18	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u19	I agree with Mrs Buitenweg. Now is not the time for fingering. Everyone has their responsibility. I think our main responsibility now is to provide as much clarity as possible. I am glad that we can now share that widely. Mr President, I am almost done, if I may. I would like to hear from the Minister how he feels about these ten points. Let me say something about helpful enforcement. Given the many questions and uncertainties that still exist, especially in this start-up phase, in which many things are not as clear and familiar as we would like, the VVD wants to speak out for helpful enforcement. I explicitly say that we fully respect the independence of the Personal Data Authority. We also do not want to diminish her duty to punish intentional and serious offences. Once again, privacy is extremely important to us. However, as many entrepreneurs, sports associations, voluntary organizations, church societies and private individuals still have many questions about the content and scope of the rules, we believe that the government should act as helpfully as possible and should therefore focus primarily on information and assistance in the interpretation and implementation of the rules. This is without prejudice to its enforcement role in relation to intentional violations. I'm asking the Minister if he can agree to this. Mr. Chairman. I come to my conclusion. This is an increasingly important aspect of our freedom and security: the management and use of data. There must be clear and practical rules for this, without creating unnecessary regulatory pressure. Especially in the start-up phase, it is important that we, especially the Dutch Data Protection Authority, help the good guys. Those clear and practical rules should therefore be clearly developed, explained and enforced by people who have an eye for the practice of the Netherlands and for our freedom and our security. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u21	Today we say goodbye to our Personal Data Protection Act, but we get the Implementing Data Protection Act back. That's gonna be our important privacy law. So today we are discussing a very important topic: the protection of our personal data and our privacy, a fundamental right. It has been negotiated for a very long time in the European Union. Thousands of amendments have been tabled. It was a very intensive journey, also closely followed by the House of Representatives, so I can put it here. But that also means that today, unlike most of the time, we cannot change as much as we want to change what is ahead. The main objective of the GDPR is to prevent companies from offering products and services from EU Member States with a low level of data protection. The entry into force of the GDPR creates an equal level of privacy protection within the European Union if it is right. Protection of privacy everywhere is basically a good starting point. How is the adoption of the regulation actually going in other EU Member States? And, more importantly, how is compliance and enforcement in practice? Are there countries that the Minister is concerned about, for example? Proper protection of the privacy of all people is of great importance, especially at a time when technological developments are moving so fast that people seem to lose control of their data more and more. This regulation strengthens the rights of data subjects, such as the right to be forgotten. On the contrary, the related obligations for the controllers become more stringent. The sanctions for breaches of the privacy rules will also be stricter. The GDPR regulates that supervisors can impose an administrative penalty of up to 20 million euros or up to 4% of the global annual turnover if this amount is higher. This is a significant increase compared to the maximum fine that the Dutch Data Protection Authority can now impose in the event of violations of the Personal Data Protection Act. The SP considers that very right, but of course it stands or falls with the decisiveness of the supervisor. Then I will come specifically to the Personal Data Authority. Because a watchdog should not only have teeth, but should also be able to bite if it has to. With the introduction of the GDPR, the Dutch Data Protection Authority receives a considerable amount of additional tasks and has in that context examined how much additional budget is needed to carry out all these tasks properly. The study.................................................................................................................................................................................. Nevertheless, 7 million euros will be added from 2019. That's not nothing. That's a lot of extra money, but that's a lot lower than the investigation showed. Afterwards, the Minister will keep an eye on whether the Dutch Data Protection Authority needs more money. I would ask what has been the point of the research that has been carried out if we do not then act accordingly. Why does the Minister choose to subfinance the Personal Data Authority? Can the authority adequately supervise when the GDPR enters into force? The additional tasks of the authority are also in the field of information. That is quite right. We ask a lot of controllers, usually the companies that process personal data. They will be given a lot of extra obligations under this regulation. The question we have asked, for example, is whether small and medium-sized enterprises are also ready. Yes, said then the Minister, and if they have any questions, they can contact the Personal Data Authority for advice. But can the authority handle all this? This is still separate from the fundamental question of how to do so. If the Authority first gives an opinion that certain processing operations would not be allowed, when can it be enforced with good decency? Opinions and enforcement in one hand are always complicated. I'd like a response from the Minister. I come back to the previous point on budget and capacity. The Personal Data Authority should provide more information to people about what should and should not be done with their personal data. I really do agree with that. The SP has often argued for that. There will now be a customer contact centre with wide telephone opening hours and a digital complaint form. The aim is, I quote, "to resolve citizens' complaints to a large extent by telephone by mediation, but the Personal Data Authority can and will also impose appropriate sanctions in response to an infringement where necessary," the Minister said. That sounds really good, but if the Minister promises all this, then the financial resources should actually be provided. Suppose the budget is indeed insufficient, as predicted by the investigation, what will the Personal Data Authority be the first to leave behind? Does it then give less information to citizens and businesses? Is she going to do less complaint handling and mediation? Is she gonna keep it down and give you less fines? I'd like a response from the Minister. Then I have questions and comments on a lot of other issues. I am concerned about automated decision-making. Based on the GDPR, it is possible for companies to apply automated decision-making. Article 40 allows exceptions to that prohibition. The SP points to the risks that this could entail. For example, many people often do not know that they are profiled or subject to automated decision-making. Personal circumstances are usually not taken into account in automatic decision-making and it may also be impossible to reverse errors with retroactive effect. I am concerned that the exceptions in the current proposal to ban automated decision-making are still too broad. How, for example, is it tested in practice whether companies are not going to cross the limit of the exceptions? Do companies, for example, have to answer to the Dutch Data Protection Authority on an annual basis? If not, wouldn't that be a good idea? Then I'll get to another point. The reporting of a data breach is in principle mandatory, but not for financial companies. Article 42 of the Implementing Act excludes financial undertakings from reporting to data subjects. This exception is not understood by the Dutch Data Protection Authority or by the SP. The customers of the financial companies should also be informed of a data breach, where this is likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned. That will often be the case. It's about privacy-sensitive information. The government states in its reply that Article 42 is identical to paragraph 11 of the current Article 34a of the Personal Data Protection Act, and thus the stocking is finished. Can the Minister explain exactly what is against treating financial companies equally and therefore simply imposing a reporting obligation? Don't you think those involved deserve to be kept in the dark at this point? I am considering another amendment, specifically on this point. Then I come to the so-called journalistic objection. Mr Buitenweg has already mentioned this. The industry organisation of news companies points out that the GDPR Implementing Act could potentially hinder journalistic practice and that the scope for the use of personal data for journalistic purposes could be too limited. Does the Minister share that concern? The industry organisation outlines that disclosure, such as the Panama Papers, may no longer be possible when the GDPR enters into force, as data subjects could require access to data and their deletion. How does the Minister see this? Does the journalistic space of news media deteriorate with the entry into force of the GDPR in relation to the current situation, or is that not the case? Another point on which I would like to ask the Minister is the following. Article 30 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation provides an exception to the rule that all companies would be obliged to keep a register of all personal data they process. That's an administrative burden. The exception is that small businesses, i.e. companies with less than 250 employees, may be exempted from this obligation to register. Can the Minister explain how we should read that exception? In the explanatory memorandum, I read that the Minister wishes to explain this exception very briefly by stating that this applies only to companies that only occasionally process personal data. But I think that is almost never the case, because every customer base or salary administration is already structural. Would it not therefore be more correct to read Article 30 (5) in such a way that a company is not obliged to register if it employs less than 250 employees and does not carry out risky processing operations? Wouldn't the latter be the most desirable from a practical point of view? That is my question to the Minister. Then I come to the sports question; for a triviant, you might say. The NOC*NSF has pointed out that it is sometimes desirable and even necessary for athletes to be able to process health data. Think of disabled athletes who want to go to the Paralympic Games as paralympists. I think it would be legitimate to register the restrictions, even if only to be able to get into the right category, because that is quite important for those athletes. The same holds true for storing data that can keep track of athletes' performance with the aim of improving that performance. Does the Minister see the shoe wringing with the GDPR Implementing Act as it has now been drafted? If so, should there not be an exception for the processing of health data in the context of sport, as has been done, for example, for schools in Article 30 (2) (a)? My final point concerns children's rights. The General Data Protection Regulation contains articles in which children are explicitly mentioned, e.g. Article 6. Under that Article, the interests of a child prevail rather than those of the controller than in the case of an adult. In children, therefore, more critical testing is needed. That's good. However, children are not specifically mentioned in other articles and provisions which are also important to them, such as in Article 17 on the right to be forgotten. Why not? What significance should be attached to this? Finally, I would like to comment on the age limit of 16 years. Mr Buitenweg van GroenLinks also mentioned this. Like my colleague, Buitenweg, I tried to discuss it at home, but I only got a glassy look back. That's because my kids are only 4 and 2 years old, so that doesn't work so well. But the point is that a child aged 16 years or older in an online environment can legally consent to the use of his personal data. This can be done, for example, if it plays a game on the internet or if it opens a socialmedia account. If the child is under 16, one of the parents must give consent. Without that consent, the personal data of the child cannot be legally processed. The question is indeed how this is controlled. Can and does this control actually take place in practice? Is that realistic? What efforts should be made by the controller, i.e. the person who acquires the personal data, to verify whether the consent of the parents is present? Indeed, some Member States have chosen to lower the age limit. The GDPR will allow that. So you get differences and children aged 13 or 14 do not need permission from their parents and the young child can decide that his or her data may be processed. I can see a dilemma myself. Does that fit in better with reality? Does it reduce the infringement of the freedom of information and expression of this group of children? For example, they may be looking for their identity, to which the COC also points. Or does a lower age than 16 give too much space to companies to process children's personal data without parental consent? In short, on what basis does the Netherlands maintain the age of 16? I'm very curious about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Van Toorenburg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR, can only be described as very ambitious. Despite the fact that this regulation was completed two years ago, it is a far-reaching regulation which provides strong protection for citizens in Member States. Despite the fact that I am also going to share all kinds of concerns, I think it is important that that starting point is mentioned here. The point is that we are trying to protect citizens, including the young people who are sitting here in the public gallery today. Not everyone should be able to pull off their data. This far-reaching regulation has not gone on its own. We now have the Implementing Act. Although we have had a detailed examination with an explanatory statement and a written round, we note that there are still a lot of issues that are unclear. There is uncertainty about the real impact of this regulation. What exactly does it have for business? I am thinking in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises. How exactly should associations deal with this regulation? What role will the Personal Data Authority play in this? These questions are of great importance to the CDA. I will go into more detail about this in my speech. But let me take one step back to the trial. Two years ago it was agreed that this regulation will enter into force definitively with all that legislation in the different Member States. On May 25th it will be time. This two-year preparatory period has led to a wide range of initiatives. I've been googling and looking at all kinds of companies, organizations and domes. How's that going over there? I come across a lot of things, all kinds of ways to help people to be well prepared for this. SME-Netherlands, VNO-NCW and all kinds of associations: everyone is working on it. Yet you can see from the search terms that there are still a lot of questions. Can the Minister look at the past period? How does he now assess the preparation time and the use of that time? Because I understand that at the end of January/beginning of February a survey was carried out among companies. This shows that a quarter of the companies just don't know what's coming to them yet. A quarter! That's a hell of a lot. So I wonder if they'll be ready on May 25th. Or are they gonna have hopeless problems? Then I'll go to the regulation itself and to the Implementing Act. It is understandable that they are many vague and open standards. That also fits a bit with how we've had the law now. But that does mean that there will be a lot of explanation on the shoulders of the Personal Data Authority. We have Mr Wolfsen in the Chamber today. He's a big man with broad shoulders, but I'm not quite sure he can carry everything with his organization, the Dutch Data Protection Authority. That will be the most extensive supervisor of the Netherlands when we look at the tasks and powers. The ACM and the AFM have all kinds of similar tasks, but they do not have legislative tasks, for example. When requested by the CDA in the written round, the Minister then refers to the College of Human Rights. But that does not make binding statements and the authority does. The Dutch Data Protection Authority will soon be given an informative, advisory and complaint-handling task. It will be given an obligation to conduct investigations and an enforcement role. Subsequently, the Authority may also impose fines. It also sits on the Supervisory Committee. Conditions such as complaint handling and advice will certainly lead to an increase in the workload. Seven million has been set aside for that. I think it is important that we keep a close eye on the assumptions that may make it clear that a higher amount should be paid in order to do this work. Do they come true or not? I understand from the written procedure that there is a very strict monitor for this. I think that's important. We want the authority to be equipped with this important task. But I'm also looking at the staffing of the college. It does surprise the CDA that the college itself is not being expanded. I find that rather strange, because you see what important tasks are going to be there. Those are tasks that might be able to abrade each other. The CDA has said many times that it wants the authority to be more advisory. The authority should not only use the axe every time, but above all say how organisations can ensure that they comply with the legislation. That is what we have discussed in all the debates. I also recall that the CDA has tabled motions to ensure that more aid is given to organisations that are keen to comply with the rules. But now we are really going to shape that. Then we see that there really isn't a dual top structure with the authority. As far as we're concerned, there's no other way. That is why we have tabled an amendment which ensures that the college will ultimately consist of three persons. Ideally, it is composed of a chairman and two other members, one on public information and advisory tasks and the other on the supervisory and enforcement role. I think these could be different expertises. That's why it makes sense. I hope the Minister will give us a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u24	Unfortunately, I have missed a little debate with Mrs Van Toorenburg in the past, but this warm plea about the Personal Data Authority is new to me. It sounds like music to me. The CDA Group is now looking mainly at a change in structure and a more advisory role. Fine, I think that's necessary, too. What does the CDA Group think about the capacity, resources and finances of the Personal Data Authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u25	As I said, we have decided that it will be pushed up by EUR 7 million. I read that an analysis has been made that it may have to be 12 and with an extension and with all kinds of assumptions maybe even much more. I'm reading 23 or 24 somewhere. That's substantially more. I very much agree with the answer given by the cabinet. It says that assumptions have been made and that we need to look at how things are finally picked up and how companies and organisations are prepared for this. What, for example, does SMEs themselves do? What does VNO-NCW do? What do the domes do? Then maybe you can do anything with 7 million more. I hope so. If that is not possible, we need to look at each other here. We have budgets, spring notes, autumn notes, the whole sant stand, or we need extra money to go there. I think it's appropriate to see what's really necessary first. I think we do that a lot. There's always more to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u26	I think that sounds very reasonable. But we all see a huge amount of work coming from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. This is a very large regulation, with a lot of new challenges for companies and organisations. They have all just been mentioned in this debate. There is therefore also a large enforcement, advisory and guidance task. It really belongs to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. He's been warning you about this for a long time. I am therefore very pleased with what Mrs Van Toorenburg has said. I agree with her that we need to see how it goes. I'll say something about it myself later. But if it is necessary, there is also room for the CDA Group to think about more resources and more capacity for the Dutch Data Protection Authority to do the job that it considers so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u27	Absolutely. We have a regulation to abide by. It's inspired by people's protection. At the same time, I believe that we should not only punish but above all help people to comply with the rules. It'll help us a lot more if we keep things from happening. Look at that hellhole that handball club's in right now. Apparently there were cameras. Afterwards we all have solutions, but there are all kinds of data, even nude images, scattered from them. This is the kind of shit we need to avoid. Punishment isn't good enough. Let's see what it takes to advise, help, so you say in advance that you can't hang cameras anywhere. That's so important. We're talking about a lot. So you have to try to be one step ahead every time, so you don't have to pay for it afterwards. It's gonna take room and money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u28	Although punishing sometimes also helps to prevent something after that. I have a question. Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke about the composition of the Personal Data Authority. I fully understand her plea for enlargement. I have previously put forward a proposal to give the House of Representatives a role in the appointment of the authority. How's the CDA in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u29	I get it. At the same time, I also see the limitations of the Chamber when it has to accept people. I've seen questionable situations where we thought we were doing well, while we were doing a lot less well as a Chamber than we had hoped. So I am not sure whether we should do this from a political stage and whether this task really belongs to us. I'm curious about the advice. I am not very critical of it, but I do not think that we should be too large in the implementation as a Chamber. Let us ensure that this is done, does not make me so much concerned that there will be the expertise needed to prevent us from soon having to adopt our top players in the permanent Committee on the Interior. I see us again with all kinds of interviews that some people have never done their lives. I don't think that's the best gremium to take them. Can I put it that carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u30	I find it rather a heavy reflection on the apparent failure of the Chamber, but well, Mrs Van Toorenburg is quite free. I am glad that she wants to look at this in person and wait for the Minister's answer, but my point is that it also controls the government and the government's data, of course. Then it is logical that we do not also place the power to put the college together exclusively in the hands of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u31	Let's talk about qualifying. I think I was more careful than Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks at the time when things were not going very well here. She was even harder in her judgment of how the Chamber had done it once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u32	Why don't we skip the side paths?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u33	I would also like to understand what Mrs Van Toorenburg means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u34	I'll explain later. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u35	If this is about something she's ever been falsely accused of, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u36	No, no, no, this is about another situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u37	Why don't we just go back to the main thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u38	No, that is not about the false accusation, but about the judgment on how we as a Chamber sometimes... This is about an amendment and that is why it is important. It was about how difficult it can sometimes be to hire certain officials as Chambers. But I just haven't figured it out yet. I think it is important that the cabinet advises on this. I just want us to get the best people on the posts. Moreover, I do not think that protection against public authorities should be the greatest. I am more concerned about small businesses that do everything with data and do not know what kind of data they all share. In the preparation of this debate I heard someone who had applied to a triathlon club say that an insurer had thought afterwards: gosh, that's interesting, because they are usually healthy people and that within no time she had an offer from that big insurer with her club. Of course, this kind of thing cannot be done, but it is now the practice. I think it is important that we try to prevent this through legislation. We were just talking about the college. I think I've said enough about that. I am running into a bit of time by joining the previous speakers when it comes to the different parts, for example about the ages. I think it is important that we clarify the moment when a minor is allowed to share something and not. I still see it with fear and trembling when children from eight or nine mobile phones are given unprotected from all kinds of SMS services, which means that they are completely covered, even financially, by all kinds of information that is being shared again. I think it's a good thing that parents have to sign for that, even under 18 and maybe from 16. I would like the cabinet's view on that. We still have a few important concerns. I look at the associations in our country. They are often run by volunteers and sometimes by a single paid employee, but most of them are well-meaning people who try to do something for society. The question is, what are they all supposed to do now? What is important to them now with regard to this Implementing Act and the General Regulation? They keep a lot of personal data and therefore process them. Is there enough attention now for this sector? I read that sports associations should always take into account that they must have explicit permission to take and place photos. I can imagine. At the same time, it should not be such a waste in the sense that you become a member of an association and immediately sign that everything can be done. We don't want that. We just shouldn't rush through it in the sense that if there's a fantastic football game and volunteers or friends put a nice picture of it on social media, the Dutch Data Protection Authority will bike along because that's not allowed. I don't think we should have that. I would like to clarify this today, as well as the question of the extent to which an association should have a data protection officer, as referred to in Article 37 GDPR. I read that it is mandatory when it comes to core tasks, systematic and regular observation. Hospitals and schools are mentioned. However, I am thinking of associations. They shall keep systematic and regular records of their members. Sports associations, of course, do this as nowhere else. Should they appoint a staff member, or is it sufficient, for example, for a dome to do so? Look at the KNVB as an umbrella organisation, who then appoints an official who then keeps an eye out that it is going well for the various associations. What should be done, for example, with regard to the privacy assessment? Should all small associations make a privacy assessment? I think we'll make them screaming crazy and we won't have a volunteer in the important associations of the Netherlands anymore. After all, we are the frontrunner in terms of volunteers and associations, and we should not destroy that. There is also specific attention from NOC*NSF for the disabled sport and the top sport. If I understand correctly, it is not just possible to collect medical data, not even from disabled athletes and top athletes, but because of these special associations they are sometimes necessary. Strictly speaking, they may not be necessary for the sport itself but for the form of sport. Should these data not be covered by the exception in Article 30, for example, for schools? I'd like a response from the cabinet. I had also asked a question earlier and now I am doing so again about the personal data of the medical sector. Health data must, of course, be very well monitored and protected. It is right that there should be very high demands on sensitive information and that there should be a great deal of concern about protecting it, but we should also be careful not to abuse it, for example as a kind of shield in quality checks. Will we be able to carry out sufficient quality checks later because you will no longer be allowed to weigh certain data? In the end, I am a little concerned that in the end a quality check may be a reason for collecting data but that they can no longer be shared, not even medically. Finally, I would like to say a final word about the directive which is still in play in relation to the implementing law and data protection in relation to the investigation and prosecution. I am referring to the EU Directive 2016/680. This Directive concerns the processing of personal data by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. There will eventually be a separate bill. I understand that we received this on 16 February, but the final implementation of this directive is 6 May. So I guess we still have something to do. I say this not only to the cabinet but also to my colleagues; I think we need to get to work to ensure that we do not have infringement proceedings for all other misery. So, as a cabinet and as a chamber, let us ensure that we implement this directive in time. It's like May 6th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u39	That's right. I call Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr. Chairman. Today, in terms of the Dutch Constitution, it is about respect for privacy and how personal data are handled. This is an important subject and an important legal right that is also enshrined in our own Constitution. There is also every reason, in itself, to tighten or update these rules from time to time. We see that the exchange of personal data has also increased over the period under consideration and that new technology has given a huge flight to that exchange of personal data and the ability to store things. In this context, I would also mention the leaking with all the consequences that this could have for the privacy of individuals. So there is also an understanding that we in Europe need to agree on this, because the exchange of data does not concern itself with borders either. At the same time, I have exhausted myself to say some nice and positive things about what we are talking about today. I must confess that I have been somewhat frustrated in the preparation of this debate. There is often nothing more beautiful than reading the law itself, apart from all kinds of pieces, and then feeling: yes, it is actually quite clear what this law says. If you try to do that with this bill, you can see that that implementing law actually leans completely, although understandable, on that European regulation, that General Data Protection Regulation. But when you take that regulation, you think: what a horrible freak this is, rarely read such a freak. If you're going to read that as an honorable citizen, you have no idea what's expected of you. I think: yes, the protection of privacy is very good and very important, but the great victim of all European compromises and coordination is legal certainty. It has been sacrificed, and I think it is extremely damaging. Just when we talk about what the citizen has in Europe and when we say that every citizen is supposed to know the law, I wonder if the citizen knows what is expected of him or her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u41	Could Mr van der Staaij perhaps make it concrete where he thinks there is a deterioration in citizens' rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u42	The deterioration of citizens' rights is not my point. My point is the lack of clarity. My ideal as a national co-legislator is that we make laws for which citizens do not have to study for four years and have to employ three advisers to know what is expected of them. That should be possible, including on these subjects. That is absolutely not the case here. I find that really shocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u43	I agree with you that there is still a lot to improve, but frankly I find this regulation more readable than a lot of other laws we make in the Netherlands, which always refers to other laws that make it unreadable. My point is that Mr Van der Staaij is now pretending to be a great tragedy for citizens, while I believe that this regulation will benefit citizens' rights. Of course, there are major implementation issues. That is a task that we should not run away from, but if we do this right, the citizens have made a lot of progress, also in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u44	It's possible. I am not saying that this law needs to provide all kinds of dramas in the drafting. I am simply saying that this European regulation and the way in which it is subsequently put into effect create a great deal of uncertainty and that this is far from what I, as a co-legislator, would like to see done. For citizens, it must be clear as soon as possible where they stand with a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u45	Everyone agrees, of course, with Mr Van der Staaij on as clear legislation as possible. That's clear. This only concerns a European law on a very comprehensive and complex subject. Mr Van der Staaij is now very concerned about the citizens who need to understand this law. It is always an important basic idea that the citizen understands the law, but this law does not prescribe much for the citizen. It is mainly up to the business community to comply with this, especially the large business sector, which will be given a great deal of demands by this law. They are indeed able to understand this complex matter. Does Mr Van der Staaij see that as well or does he not care who the law prescribes what and does he simply think that the law should be much simpler?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u46	I can see that there are differences. I will come back to that later in my text. For very large companies it is easier to hire a staff member to see what exactly the law entails. They are also used to that complexity. My concern lies precisely with the smaller companies, the smaller companies and the churches, with what applies to a separate municipality and what applies to the whole. It can be even more difficult for them. If we're not careful, we say do as much as possible, because then you're the safest. If we choose to do so, we will have an incredible administrative burden that may not have been necessary after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u47	Agreed. Small and medium-sized enterprises, small associations and churches should absolutely not be overwhelmed by this law. I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij. I think we all agree. So that's what we can talk about in the way we deal with this law. Do you know where the complexity comes from, through you, President, I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u48	"Does Mr. Van der Staaij know where the complexity comes from?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr President, with your permission, I am going to ask him that now. Of course, it does not come from the legislator. It comes from those terribly complicated earning models of those huge tech chores that started with all kinds of totally elusive algorithms and other smart systems to take away citizens' data. So that complexity is not from the legislator, I would like to give it to Mr Van der Staaij. That complexity comes from the big companies, who want to make money. The legislator can only go along with this complexity in order to limit it. I hope that Mr Van der Staaij has an eye for that. Otherwise, I do not think that his plea for simple legislation does justice to the complex cleverness of large companies. I'd like to give him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u50	Mr Verhoeven is right that sometimes technically complex rules are needed, because data are collected or leaked in a technically complex way. I agree. You do not hear me; you have a point. I am looking, for example, at Article 37 of such a regulation: designation of the Data Protection Officer. That is just a very important point. You have a data protection officer. When do you want it now? It should be clear what that is about. Then I read: a controller or processor is primarily responsible for processing which, because of their nature and size, requires systematic observation on a large scale of data subjects. That's full of vague concepts. So you can't just deduce from that when a data protection officer is needed. Under a normal national law, we would say: Minister, can't that be clarified in the law? And if you can't do that in the law, we say, "We want it in an AMvB." And if we think it is very important, we say: we would like to have another veil, so that we as a Chamber can still look at it. Now we are actually saying: European needs to be so, this is the law; Minister, can you still have the Personal Data Authority... You have to work it all out and we hope it all works out well. Then we have little more instruments to say as politics: do we really think this is real? That is a concrete example. Then you understand what I'm talking about. I mentioned Article 37. Article 91 is a provision on churches and religious associations. That is one way or another that always interests us. It reads: if they have extended rules at the time of entry into force of this Regulation, those rules may continue to apply, provided that they are brought into line with that Regulation. Then I think, what does it say here? This is not so much about technical complexity. It probably also has to do with very complex compromises between all kinds of Member States or with all kinds of organisations, which only have the effect of sacrificing legal certainty. I think this legislation is stronger than any legislation I can remember in recent years. Apart from that, I always welcome a fine recital so that you know what has been considered when adopting a regulation. But if you have struggled through 173 considerations alone before the text itself begins, of which you are partly wondering... For example, there is a very nice recital, recital 13, which refers to a kind of differentiated application for smaller organisations and institutions. Well, I agree, a good point. Part of it then comes back to the text of the regulation, for example when it comes to the data register. But on other parts, it's not so clear what that means. It's not just said "Authority Personal Data, get on with it." It is also stated in that recital that Member States are encouraged to implement this differentiation for those smaller organisations and companies. Then I'm curious. Where does the Implementing Act say that? Well, that's probably where it is, but I don't see it so much. I understand from the explanatory text that it is clearly intended for the government. I would like to make another attempt to embed that in the Implementing Act itself; hence the amendment that we have in part No. 15, which refers to that recital 13. The text of the regulation offers this scope and encourages not only the supervisors but also the Member States themselves to implement it. Hence an attempt to shape that in this way. Mr. Chairman. I think I have already passed through the interruptions in a large part of my text. But let me ask the following question, which is about the policy neutrality that the government also uses as a magic word: we do not want to impose all kinds of additional burdens with our Implementing Law, we want to do it as soberly as possible and stay as close as possible to the rules that already apply. Understand that point of departure and support that we are not trying to put all kinds of national headlines on top of it, surely. But at the same time I do think: yes, it is the intention that there should also be a national interpretation and also a national guarantee of subjects on which we think it is important that the Netherlands should also have the possibility of exchanging personal data. My question to the government is also: are these possibilities of freedom of policy now being exploited in this regulation, can it be implemented in such a way that matters which we consider important are also regulated? For I have understood from the history of creation that there really remains the space to, when we say in the Netherlands that we think about it from a safety point of view, the whole discussion about dealing with confused persons............................................................................................................................................. Is it now well settled on such important issues, such as youth care and care? Or can we now have surprises from: yes, no, but under the European regulation we can and should not do so anymore? I would like to put that question to the government. Mr. Chairman. That when it comes to the real freedom of policy there is. So it's being used, too? But then you also have a certain freedom of judgment, not a real freedom of policy, given with vague concepts in the regulation. In the Netherlands we know more detailed rules with real policy freedom: you can decide how you want to deal with them. But sometimes there is also simply a freedom of assessment to further define vague concepts. To what extent has that space been used by the government? I do not see that clearly in the proposal. Can the legislator not also play an important role here? Or is the national parliament a bit out of play in the whole area of personal data and we say: yes, it is European and it is up to the Personal Data Authority to further fill that in? I would regret that, because it is sometimes typically a national political consideration of how the right to privacy should be balanced, on the one hand, against the importance of security, for example, on the other. It is a very important fundamental right, but not the only fundamental right. That is why we should not give up this political margin of manoeuvre unnecessarily. That's what I'm worried about. I heard Mr Verhoeven say: no, it is not, there is quite some national room for manoeuvre. That is encouraging, but I would also like to hear it from the Minister. So not only when it comes to the Personal Data Authority, because from the structure of the bill and the regulation it is of course the easiest to say: authority, do your best, and get on with it. But also when it comes to: yes, what is the democratic weighting that we can still apply? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a single question concerning the position of the authority. This will be given two columns: one aimed at information and information and the other at monitoring. This combination of tasks - information, advice, monitoring and action - raises the question of the extent to which this is not vulnerable, including from a legal point of view, in view of the discussions we have had in the past on, for example, the position of the Council of State, again from the case law of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Court of Strasbourg, which says: yes, but can actually do so in one hand. There you see a kind of stricter interpretation of the advisory role on the one hand and the concrete role on the other. What does that mean for the position of the Personal Data Authority? This bill provides for far-reaching restrictions on fines, which can have a significant impact in practice. My question is to what extent the possibility of fines is being dealt with modestly during the period when there is still a great deal of uncertainty. This would be obvious for smaller companies and organisations that are in good faith and try to comply with the law, but do not yet know exactly what is happening. Some of it still needs to crystallise, as demonstrated by the contributions of other spokesmen, while the regulation will enter into force in a short time. To what extent is this taken into account in the way in which fines are handled? The last point I would like to mention is the point of the churches. Pursuant to Article 17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Union respects the status of churches in national Member States. This is mentioned in the recital, but in the Implementing Act I do not see the position of the churches so clearly anymore, although, for example, it is explicitly regulated in the Civil Code in the Netherlands separately. I would like to hear from the government a more detailed explanation of the demands made to churches in this context. Can the government guarantee that it does not violate the independent position of churches and the right to establish their own statute? Is the protection of churches resulting from the independent tasks of church maintained at least at the existing level? Is the government prepared to ensure that churches can carry out full tasks for which they have been created, including pastoral care for members and other stakeholders? As a final point, I agree with the questions that have been asked about the age limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u51	On the previous point, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm dealing with the role of the churches versus the freedom of the individual. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that the Church should also have the right to be forgotten, for example, so that a citizen can be written out as he wishes and that all his data is erased?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u53	I think this is the existing practice. There was no need or reason to change this, as far as I know. My question is whether this is indeed the case under this legislation and what it will mean for the position of churches. I think that citizens' rights can certainly include the fact that they can get that data deleted from the registers concerned. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u54	I thought you had another point about the age limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u55	Yes, on that I have joined the questions raised by colleagues. It is indeed an important point, but I do not have many supplementary questions on it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u56	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Verhoeven of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u57	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to start with many questions that my colleagues have asked. I will therefore try to be brief. I certainly won't touch the 75 minutes. I think I will raise a number of points with regard to this Implementing Act, which must, of course, be seen in the context of the major changes that are taking place in life as a result of all kinds of new technology and digitisation. I don't think I exaggerate when I say that digitisation is changing every aspect of our lives more and more often and more quickly. This is also becoming very concrete in our daily lives. It is true that this is often accompanied by all kinds of abbreviations, such as 3D printing, IoT, artificial intelligence AI, the Wiv, CC3 and also all kinds of English terms, such as crypto, blockchain, big data, drones and smart cities. They give us a feeling of abstract aloofness that wouldn't touch us, but of course it's just that it's no longer our alarm clock radio that wakes us up in the morning, but our cell phone. Once we wake up, we don't get the paper out of the mailbox anymore, but we read the news on our smartphones and tablets. Before you step out the door, you don't look at the clouds to know if you need to bring an umbrella, but you just get a message or it's raining, or the train's late or your appointment might be rescheduled. In the evening you no longer watch analogue television, which some cable providers no longer offer, but just go to Netflix to watch a series. That's how our lives change. Digitisation is simply impossible to think away from our daily lives. In the coming years, this will only increase further. For example, we also connect more and more devices to the Internet. Those are not just cameras, but also refrigerators, toothbrushes and barbie dolls. This brings with it all sorts of new dilemmas. In this area, for example, there is the question of security. I am also very pleased that yesterday the cabinet announced that standards, including European standards, would be set for devices connected to the Internet. But not only safety comes under pressure or changes through all kinds of technological change. For example, employment is also an issue that is changing through digitisation, automation and robotisation. The distribution of wealth is influenced by all kinds of digital systems. Social cohesion in our society can be put under pressure by digitalisation. And, of course, that is what we are talking about today; I've just taken a run at a time, and our privacy will also be under pressure as a result of all kinds of new technologies and the increasing sharing and retrieval of data. This trend is also summarised as "big data." This law is about the privacy and the data. Using all those devices, all those services and all those applications we generate more and more data about our daily lives, our preferences and our health. As a result, companies and governments are increasingly finding out more and more about us. Today we're talking about a privacy regulation. It is a European regulation, a European law, which applies in particular to business. But there is also a directive, the e-Privacy Directive, which is more applicable to public authorities. He's coming this way, too. But today we are talking about the privacy regulation for companies. Businesses decided decades ago to follow citizens online with a commercial advantage as a reason, by the way, without telling citizens. They just wanted to make money based on the information they could get from Internet users. They did that first through cookies, small files that are put on your computer at the time you are online. But now companies no longer only collect all kinds of information through cookies, but they use all kinds of other methods to collect as many citizens' data as possible, because the more data, the more money. That is the perverse earning model, and I call it a perverse earning model, indeed, of the big technology companies, which owe it their high stock exchange value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u58	I am listening with great attention to Mr Verhoeven's speech. He just mentioned the enormous privacy concerns regarding the relationship between citizens and government. He also mentioned concerns about the relationship between citizens and businesses. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me when I draw attention to what I call 'horizontal privacy' or 'intermediate privacy', namely privacy between citizens? Because the enormous digitisation, which he rightly calls attention to, also has an impact on all the means by which citizens can watch, spy on and follow each other. Just now the Dutch handball team was mentioned, which was filmed and exhibited without knowing it. That's probably an example of citizens violating each other's privacy. Do I also find Mr Verhoeven in addition to me when I draw attention to this mutual privacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u59	Yes, that's where Mr Koopmans finds me next to him. I do think that the relationship between citizens is more similar than when it comes to powerful governments and powerful tech companies that touch citizens' privacy. That is why I am more inclined to limit it. But I do not want to say that Mr Koopmans' point would not be important. I can absolutely see that. I know he's busy doing that, and I'm following his activities in the field of horizontal privacy with a particular interest. Mr. Chairman. The consequences of the earning model of these technology companies mean that Facebook often knows us better than our friends and family, that Google knows exactly where we have been in recent years and that creators of smart watches know our health better than our doctor. That is why it is good that after 20 years, privacy legislation is modernised at European level. It is also a good thing that the data power of the social media platforms and tecrushing is being reduced. As far as I am concerned, this law is most important for that. I speak to all my fellow Members who have said that this law should not impose all kinds of burdens and costs on the bakery on the corner, small and medium-sized enterprises, the association, the handball club, the church and the self-employed. I'm sure the Minister will say the same later. That's no one's wish. The wish is for the citizen to be protected against large companies that violate our privacy in a way that is out of control. That's what this law does very good things for. Of the cookie law, which I mentioned recently, the intention was justified in itself, but the legal execution was bad. We created something that rightly raised a problem, but the solution we chose was not good. That is why I welcome the policy-neutral or technology-neutral approach adopted in the Implementing Act, as Mr Van der Staaij called it. It is chosen to reason as much as possible from the point of view and not from a particular technique. I think that's a very sensible choice. Mr Van der Staaij and I have just spoken about the complexity. It is precisely this technological complexity that leads to some legislation being very complicated. I remember a debate with the former Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Kamp, in which the whole Chamber spent three hours debating the precise interpretation of the term "explicit consent": when do you or do you not give explicit permission to a website to follow you to a certain level? We've all been debating this for three hours. That was a good debate, but that was about two words, translating the exact load into the way we use the Internet. In short, you do not escape complex legislation when it comes to the smart, digital and complex earning models of those companies. They are deliberately made difficult, with an easy layer on top, namely: just a click. But there's a whole world behind that, and you have to deal with it with complex legislation. What happens through this law? People get more control over their data. They can access, change, delete and take data. The right to oblivion is secured and people are also entitled to a human view rather than just automated decision-making based on profiles and algorithms. That's a good first step. As I have just said, it should focus on this and not on the SMEs who are trying to regulate their workforce as effectively as possible. I am therefore concerned with helpful enforcement, as Mr Koopmans of the VVD called it. I have written in my text "human enforcement." That is what I would like to ask the Minister: is the Minister willing to ensure that this independent supervisor, who is unable to pull the strings, provides as best as possible the proper, accompanying enforcement in relation to the target groups for which it is necessary? Mr Van der Staaij has just mentioned the relationship between European and national. It's a regulation. So we just have to take over most of it right away. This is why our current Data Protection Act is replaced by this GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation. There is indeed some freedom of policy, but I would like to say: let us take advantage of this freedom of policy where it is good for certain national sectors or situations, but we should not let it go at the expense of it. This is another balance that we need to seek from the clear playing field that we are looking for in order to ensure that American companies have to comply with the same rules everywhere and that Dutch start-ups know where they stand if they want to find customers, for example in Bulgaria, Poland or Luxembourg. It is therefore a search for the right balance between a level playing field and national policy freedom. I look forward to the Minister's response to this. I have a few final questions, as I have already said, in addition to all the good points that I can largely endorse. The first question concerns the age limit for consent to the processing of personal data. We see more age limits in all kinds of legislation; I think Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks has tabled an amendment on an age limit. These age limits are often very poorly substantiated, also because it is very difficult to support them. That is why my colleague Vera Bergkamp has asked the Health and Society Council to investigate the arbitrariness of ages. Why do we set age limits at a certain age, whether it's about voting, drinking alcohol or being allowed to create a social media profile? That is often quite arbitrary on all these issues. The council will probably come up with its advice after the summer. I would therefore ask the Minister to include that advice in the way in which this law looks at the age limit. I'd like to get a response to the question as to whether he's willing to do that. Finally, two points on the Dutch Data Protection Authority. First of all, the requirement of the General Data Protection Regulation for the supervisory authority to have a separate public annual budget. Well, that's not taken care of right now. Does the Minister agree with me, I ask him, that the Personal Data Authority should have its own non-departmental budget allocated? If I have just heard the warm words of the CDA about the Authority, I believe that other Members in this Chamber are also looking at the way in which we can regulate the budget, but also the budget's self-sufficiency. Mr President, my final point. In addition, the Authority has had an examination of how much additional work these new powers generate and how much budget is needed for this. In doing so, the three scenarios have been developed of what is necessary to effectively and effectively implement the new tasks and competences. Those are the scenarios low, middle and high. The Authority indicates that the additional resources will not even bring the scenario down. We were just discussing this with Mrs Van Toorenburg. D66 has been advocating an increase in the budget of the Dutch Data Protection Authority for years. We proposed a triple in a Tech vision at the time. In my opinion, 7 million has been added in the coalition agreement, at least in the run-up to the coalition agreement, through the spring note of last year, 7 million have been added. That was a good step in itself, but the scenario low would cost about 20 million, so we are still 5 or 6 million short. My question to the Minister is: how do we deal with this in a sensible way? Pending his response, I will possibly come up with a nuanced motion to see how we deal with a good relationship between the budget and the capacity of the Personal Data Authority and a new task package in the coming months and years. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u60	We are preparing for your nuanced motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u61	Actually, I don't have to say that, because it's a pleonasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u62	You say it yourself, I'm just quoting you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u63	It's actually a pleonasm, because it's always just about nuanced motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u64	A nuanced interruption by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u65	That's a tautology, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr President, you know me. I myself have also prepared a very nuanced motion on the budget. We're gonna take a look at that later. As far as the independent budget is concerned, I wonder whether Mr Verhoeven was not satisfied with the letter of amendment, which I believe is in line with the wishes on this point. It is a pity that D66 is not enthusiastic about the independent budget for justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u67	And then out of the sidewalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u68	Out of the sidewalk and back to the budget. Mr Verhoeven rightly raises the question of how we are going to look at this in the future. I had also tracked down a Tech vision calling for a triple budget. That would do more justice to the scenarios that led to that investigation. Just after the entry into force of the regulation, we happen to have the Spring Note. What does Mr Verhoeven think should happen with the Spring Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you for the various questions. I won't go sideways, Mr. Chairman. That requires some discipline, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u70	You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mr Van Nispen is actually asking a number of questions. I do not think we should comment on the Spring Note now. I am awaiting the Minister's reply, and I intend to look into the reality of the Authority over the coming months, so separately from all scenarios and forecasts. We can't predict the world, sometimes things aren't that good, sometimes they're disappointing. I want to see how things are going over the next few months, and if things are not going well, I want to act in line with Mrs Van Toorenburg's words. Maybe the Spring note comes around the corner for that, we should take a look at that. I'm not going to anticipate that right now. You had another question about the letter of amendment. It was tabled this morning and I think it is already coming a long way in the right direction. If the Minister says it's settled, I'm gonna delete this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u72	The entry into force of this Regulation is 25 May this year. Shortly after that we have the Spring note, there are only a few weeks in between. I also think that this is very short, but I wonder if we could ask the Minister to look very carefully at what is extra to the Authority in those few weeks between the time of entry into force and the Spring paper. It may seem too short, but from 25 May onwards there may be a lot of requests for information, a lot of requests for the maintenance and signals of people and information from small businesses who are wondering how to do this in practice. Perhaps that is an interesting question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u73	I shall then continue with this question. I am also listening with Mr Van Nispen to the answer. There are two things I can be very clear about. D66 has already said that more money should go to the authority than is currently the case. That's what we want. Of course, we talked about all kinds of things in coalition terms, and then you have to make choices. There is not enough money for all the wishes of all the parties in this country; so does Mr Van Nispen. We have now taken that step to 7 million. I would point out to both the coalition partners and the minister that they are very serious about the huge amount of tasks that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is going to have. If we want to look at this in a good way, a few weeks might be too short, but if things go completely wrong, we will definitely look at what we have to do. We will definitely look in the coming months at the extent to which the Authority is able to properly fill in all these different questions and enforcement tasks. I do not, of course, make a commitment on something, because that does not suit me, but I do have a sense of your point and I want to take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr Verhoeven stressed that the law is necessary and valuable to the Google world, but we also discussed concerns about, for example, small institutions and organisations. What does this mean for them now? To give a concrete example, does Mr Verhoeven also think that it should not be the intention for an independent school administration with a school of 150 or 175 pupils to have a separate data protection officer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u75	Look, a staff member is a way to take care of certain things. It is true that in the UAVG it is not quite right when something should or should not be. I am inclined to say that this school will not in any way intervene in the privacy of the citizens who are protected by this regulation. Then I'm inclined to think that I shouldn't start to judge whether it's necessary or not, but that the school itself should first assess whether it thinks it's necessary. If they do not think it is necessary, because they do not do a number of things on the basis of which such a staff member would be needed, that is an initial assessment that we should assume. And then the authority has to see if that school is right about that in some way. If the school is wrong about that by mistake, the school should have plenty of time to play into it in a good way. The school should not then be beaten with a stick at the fingertips. But the school itself has to make the assessment whether it is necessary or not, because the school does or does not edit a lot of data. My estimate is that most schools aren't at that level, but that's my estimate. The assessment isn't mine, because I'm not a enforcer. I'm a legislator. And in this case, I am actually more implementing legislator, because the European law is made by the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u76	I have also looked at the directive that exists, because the regulation is not clear. The directive that deals with it also has 28 sides, and then you don't know exactly whether or not it is necessary in such a case. Suppose it's said, we'll just explain it spaciously and safely, so it has to be. That means a huge administrative burden. If we do not want to do that and ask ourselves whether it is necessary, what can we, as legislator or auditor, do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u77	When do you or don't you have to do something? If you sit safely you get yourself more on the neck than is necessary and we are afraid of that, you say. You now act a bit like that by this law...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mr Van der Staaij is now doing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u79	Yes, Mr President, Mr Van der Staaij is indeed doing so. And you tell me that I should actually say that to you in order to make that clear to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u80	You'll tell me when you say "you."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u81	Yes, no, I certainly shouldn't have done that, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij is now making a bit of a statement as to whether this unique problem will only be dealt with by this law. This is, of course, the case with almost all laws. With every law that's passed, you're supposed to ask organizations that deal with it questions about its exact scope. Let's see how we can properly define the scope of this above-average complex law, so that school boards, churches, associations and handball clubs do not suffer from it. But we cannot write all things down in this Implementing Law with very hard limits, because those hard limits also cause problems. I think the beauty of this law lies in being allowed to judge whether or not you are a great data editor. If you think you're not, there's room not to do a few things. If you manage this in a good way, it can be less taxing rather than more taxing. That's my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u82	Fine, thank you. We're gonna suspend for a while. The Minister has requested a 25-minute suspension. Not at 20 minutes and not at 30 minutes, but at 25 minutes. Then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u83	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that today we are discussing the draft implementing General Data Protection Regulation in plenary. I repeat what a number of spokesmen have already said: it is a very important law. When it comes to the processing of personal data, there is a lot at stake. We're talking about a fundamental right here. One could say: without the protection of privacy, there is no question of freedom. People need to be able to trust that governments and companies handle their data carefully and lawfully. It may get even more pregnant when we realize that our society and the way money is made in the world are increasingly driven by data. It is therefore very important to guarantee citizens' rights and, above all, to strengthen citizens' ability to exercise them. That is exactly what this GDPR provides for. It's also important because of the other side of the story. The processing of personal data plays an increasingly important role in trade. In addition to protecting personal data, the second objective of the GDPR is to ensure a wider and more freer space in Europe for the free movement of personal data. The automated processing of personal data is ideally not bound by national borders. This means that economic activity benefits from the fact that these rules differ as little as possible from one country to another in the European area. That's the second big thing the GDPR wants. What does that mean in practice? Let's take a big Dutch company, a company that operates internationally in different countries, a large bank, for example ING. This now has to do with 28 different national laws and later with one GDPR, in which at least the backbone, the main principles, are regulated in Europe. Now that company has to do with 28 different authorities personal data. Soon it will be possible to get to one, namely the Dutch. That's pure profit. For ordinary people like you and I, too, things change to the advantage. Suppose you buy a plane ticket from a foreign airline. I'm just calling it the illustrious air Baltic. If, after you have bought the ticket, you constantly get spam that you think: hey, that's crazy, that has to do with the ticket I bought there, but I didn't mean to buy that ticket to give you my data for all kinds of purposes for which they are now being used. If you want to do something about that now, you need to go to the Latvian authority and get personal data. I must confess that my Latvian is not very good. You will soon be able to visit the Dutch Personal Data Authority, which will contact the Latvian authorities. He takes that back and returns it to the complainant. I think that for citizens in the Netherlands it is a real gain that we are going to work with this new regulation. Mr. Chairman. That's as an introduction. I wanted to build my speech along a number of lines. I wanted to say a few words about the law itself, about the process, about the timing and about how to deal with the open standards in the law. That's basically the law. My second major theme is what the social effects of this law are for, for example, companies and other organisations, sports associations, churches and so on. The third major theme that I have been able to distill from the questions and comments of Members of Parliament is very much about the Personal Data Authority: the concept of a task, the preparation, the manning, the mediation, the money and the budget. Then I must have a block with specific themes that have been raised, such as journalism, e-Court, algorithms. I only put it in a big block of "varia." Finally, I would like to comment on all the amendments that have been tabled. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the bill itself. The content of the GDPR has been negotiated for more than 4 years at European level by 28 Member States. At that time the Chamber was constantly informed and closely involved by my predecessors in the negotiations. The GDPR is now a fact. On 25 May, GDPR standards will also be directly applicable in all EU Member States. The fact that this is now a fulfilled fact does not mean that the House of Representatives did not have any influence on the Dutch contribution to the negotiations at the time. At present, it is important to ensure that the present Implementing Act can enter into force simultaneously with the GDPR on 25 May. This is very important in the Netherlands. I have already described this in the written procedure, because if it is not, we will end up in all kinds of undesirable situations. In my view, we must provide for this at all costs. So there's a lot of pace at this process. I do not think that the Netherlands is very lagging behind many other countries in Europe. I believe that Mr Van Nispen asked what is happening in other countries and whether we are concerned here and there. I believe that Germany and Austria alone have already completed the legislative process. All other 26 Member States are also very busy at the moment, as in the Netherlands, driving the legislation through parliament. In order to do so smoothly and as quickly as possible, it has been a very conscious and explicit choice to implement as much policy neutrally as possible, regardless of the changes that the GDPR entails. These are in line with the way it is currently regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act. We are doing this in order to do so as fluently as possible and not to introduce new national law rules on top of the changes already brought about by the GDPR. That doesn't mean we shouldn't do that in the long term. I can see Mrs Buitenweg coming to the interrupting microphone. I have heard very well that on some of the points where we have space, we could stand still a little longer and discuss it. Take, for example, the age limit. We copy these personal data into the UAVG under the Protection Act. I would like to put forward a procedural proposal. Then I will go into the substance of the matter that has been mentioned. I would like to explore the possibilities for further modernisation and improvement of data protection law immediately after the finalisation of this bill. I will be very happy to include the issues that have just been raised. I will also highlight one or two of these issues later because there were some more specific questions. I will also give my thoughts on why I might choose to do so in the second phase. So let's have the debate on that. I would like to identify the precise legal implications of further amendment. I would also like to go through a careful process of looking at the advantages and disadvantages with different interest groups and companies. Then I can send you a letter to indicate what comes out when you just pick it up. I would also like to make specific proposals on what could be included in a second round of this UAVG as far as I am concerned. Next year, so in 2019, that law could then go into consultation. Mr. Chairman. So this is the policy neutral variant. So it is not ready, but given the pace we have to keep up, I would very much prefer to opt for the law as much as possible as it currently stands. Then we're gonna make a floor impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u85	The Minister had actually pacified me when he said that he would go into the questions about age limits, for example. But now he's saying for the second time that it's policy-neutral. Precisely by giving new rights to individuals, the agreements that are in fact there, for example an existing age limit, do not, in my view, take policy-neutral action, because the implications for citizens are different. If this is the case, you will need your parents' permission every time you are under 16 to download an NU.nl app or google. That doesn't turn out to be policy-neutral. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u86	To my best knowledge, it is also now in the Personal Data Protection Act that you need permission from your parents under a certain age. Then, of course, there is a question here as to what exactly this is going to look like in practice. We all have friends with children or we have children of our own and of course we see that this does not always happen. Let me make a parallel with civil law. For example, underage children, especially children under 16, should not enter into agreements. If a 10-year-old is going to buy an ice cream, that means formally according to the law that it needs permission from his parents to enter into a financial transaction. In practice this does not actually happen or hardly does, but a parent can always recall his consent when entering into such agreements. I would like to tell you that I would be happy to discuss with you whether you might have to go from 16 to 14 or even to 13. That's the lower limit. I also see that all kinds of countries have arranged this differently. I think that this is a weak point in the GDPR, because that shows that the attempt to standardise it within Europe is not yet entirely successful. I am not at all in principle in this, but if we are going to do so, I would personally be very pleased if we could just clearly state to the Chamber what the consequences are and what the implications are and what the consistency is with, for example, other legislation. Minors need formal consent from their parents on many fronts to commit certain legal acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u87	Now I understand that the Minister's defence is that it is not being maintained at the moment either. That's why there wouldn't be such a big problem. I believe that the law and the regulation we are discussing here, and also the implementing law before us, should be enforced. So the idea is that it's not going to cause any problems, because it's actually a bit of a fictitious permission right now. That seems to me to be a weak defence, because the intention is that citizens' consent to the processing of their data will no longer be fictitious. This will certainly change something for young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u88	I have set the example, because you see in other laws and regulations that age limits are being applied and that in practice a sleeve is being adapted to this. Reasonability and fairness are therefore considered. I was just setting the example of a 12-year-old buying ice cream. If you come back after a year and say that you hadn't given permission to do so, the judge will really say: that's bad luck. But if a 12-year-old boy has purchased an expensive thing on the Internet and as a parent says you didn't mean to, then you do have a title in the civil right to come back to it. This is about data processing. Mr Verhoeven, or Mr Van der Staaij, I don't remember who it was. It is not just about creating a profile on Facebook, but also about whether a minor child is aware of what is happening with his private data. That's a far-reaching thing. I would like to discuss with you whether you should go back to 14 or 13, but the story also has another side: that children can give away their private data without parents' permission and that all kinds of companies, if they have given permission, can do things with it. Once again, I am not saying that I do not want this in principle, but I do not want to cross that bridge until we have considered the consequences. Hence my proposal to see if we can do this in a second phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u89	The Minister gave a number of examples in which it was about paying. That is also an act with great legal effect. But of course it's also about subscribing to a newsletter and Google a book for your work. It's too crazy to have to go to your parents all the time, isn't it? At least, I wouldn't want this as a parent either. I can't help but notice that every night I have to check something. So that doesn't seem like the way we should go. It's a good thing we're going to look at this again. But I think that in the coming months, if it is indeed maintained, there will really be a different effect than is currently the case in the current situation. In any case, GroenLinks does not think that this is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u90	I note Mrs Buitenweg's view. With a number of examples she has put forward, I would also like to say immediately that that would be a little crazy. I doubt that all the examples you mention are immediately covered by the Avg regime. You can do a lot of things on the internet without giving away your personal data, for example in search engines. However, I would prefer to have this discussion in the second phase. Mr. Chairman. Then a number of questions have been asked about the system of the law. Mr Van der Staaij asked how to deal with the concept clause in the law. That has, of course, been quite a struggle, also in a European context. Quite general and fairly open standards have been chosen. That has a disadvantage on the one hand if you really want to know it much more concrete and much more specific. On the other hand, it has an advantage. Mr Verhoeven referred to this, namely that in an environment and in a world in which technological developments are going very quickly, you should actually look for principles that will soon, when technology changes, be manageable and valid. Therefore, the choice has been made on fairly general concepts and fairly open standards. They must, of course, be put into practice. That happens at different levels. The responsibility of companies and organisations responsible for processing is, of course, paramount, but we will help them to do so. We are doing this from our side by indicating exactly what standards they are supposed to pick up and implement. We have developed all kinds of material for this, together with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The supervisor conducts supervisory policies at national level, both in general directives and in the concrete supervisory and penalty policies. This also means that this will be further developed in the drafting of this law. Let me perhaps draw a parallel to civil law: civil law, of course, also contains fairly broad and open standards. Take, for example, the understanding of the tortious act. What exactly is a tortious act? But the fact that we have such an open understanding of civil law, which in practice takes shape through case law and independent judicial rulings, makes such a legal concept very timeless and very applicable on many places and fronts. This is also a bit which I hope some of the open standards will be implemented in due course and further developed in the case law. At European level, the European Data Protection Board also draws up a wide range of general directives. Furthermore, the European Commission draws up a number of delegated and implementing acts. All this is, of course, different in scope from the current situation, but in essence, in nature, perhaps not. Mr Van der Staaij also asked the question: what do I now agree with? Does the UAVG and the GDPR regime mean that we will soon have very strict privacy standards and that if we want to do so, for example, in the area of security, with security houses or in the field of youth care, public authorities will no longer be able to communicate with each other because we may be saying yes to this today? I think I can take that care away. One of the principles in the UAVG is that there is a great deal to be done if there is a legal basis for this or, for example, if individual users consent to it. With a number of examples I think I can get some cold out of the air there. This means that you as a parliament have a very important task and role to play in identifying where you find that organisations are entitled to exchange personal data on the basis of the law you make and which you determine. In any case, from my role, I will therefore be careful to point accusingly to Brussels here in many discussions or to say that something is no longer possible because it is regulated in the UAVG. I think we should look much more at ourselves. We had an interesting debate here recently on the reduction of repeated crime in the prison system, and it was also said: it is complicated for prisons and municipalities to exchange data on ex-convicts. In fact, all this can be done on the basis of this, but then we need to regulate and regulate it properly in our national laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u91	The Minister says that the legislator can get to work in this area, so to speak. That is precisely where it is important that there really is an explicit legal provision. I agree with him. The question is to what extent it is now involved in this Implementing Act. I do see general provisions in this regard, including in the area of health and safety, but is it in line with current practices to prevent this law from restricting the possibilities that we now know in the interests of health and safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u92	A huge further restriction has not been the intention of this bill. This bill ensures careful management and proper security of personal data. I'm not gonna beat around the bush. This means for many organisations that they need to take a good look at the current way in which they do so. There's really some new things in there that they need to get started on, if they want to get it right. For example, in the case of large companies and a complex and complex handling of personal data, think of such a data officer. For quite simple things you must at least have mapped and registered it. There are a number of new things in this bill. I do not immediately foresee that this offers a huge limitation for some of the regular things that we have all arranged, at least, that is not the intention. We may, of course, run into that in practice. That is why I find some of the suggestions that have been made, I believe by you, Mr Van der Staaij, but also by Mr Koopmans, to continue to follow very closely how this works out, crucial. That's what I'm gonna do. I also consider the suggestion to be crucial that we should properly regulate things that we may encounter in practice in our national legislation. I also do not rule out the fact that there are still things that we say: yes, we run into in the GDPR itself. Mr Van der Staaij was somewhat critical of at least the European texts. We may be wondering afterwards if they were workable. I know that my predecessor, Stef Blok, took this very seriously in Europe around the summer when there was a European Council. He said: looking at the GDPR, there are a lot of companies and organisations, we need to keep our finger on the pulse, not just nationwide but also European. If that leads to things, I will come back to you and we will figure out together how to do it and whether we can do it in the Netherlands or whether we should go back to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u93	This also means, in practical terms, that when it comes to what this law provides on the basis of the regulation, it is not the intention to restrict the exchange of data in the context of, for example, the care of confused persons and the way it works now? That's gotta be able to go on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u94	It doesn't look like it. This law aims to better regulate the way in which we and companies and institutions handle personal data and not to greatly reduce or limit it. I do not rule out the fact that there are existing practices, too, which I have run into a few times over the last few months, where organisations had a way of working and were never aware that this may or may not be possible under current legislation and regulations, and now, with the new legislation and regulations, suddenly find out that they need to adapt and change it. So there's gonna be some things that have to be different. In fact, this may mean a more rigorous and careful handling of these things. You can be sure that if this leads to undesirable bottlenecks, for example in youth care, education or sport, I will be happy to return to it. Hence the question to keep the finger on the wrist, to evaluate and, so to speak, to come back in six months to show what it has achieved. That seems to me to be very useful and we can then discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u95	I understand the Minister's proposed approach. I myself am not ready to make any concrete proposals on all those points on which I have asked questions, if because I am convinced that things have to be different and can be better, but there are a lot of concerns that we have all mentioned here. We would like to do the treatment of a law right at once and say: and that is how it is going to be. However, I do understand the two-stage approach proposed. Suppose after 25 May 2018 it appears that, for example, sportsmen with disabilities are no longer able to practice their sport because they are no longer allowed to register what restrictions they have. So these are obviously inhumane consequences that are not intended. Is there room for interpretation at that time, or should we wait until the inventory is completed and a new bill is introduced? I mean that not only in the field of sport, but this is just an illustration of the point I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u96	If there are really acute or very urgent issues, I will return to you earlier. In fact, I have a feeling you're going to pull me on my jacket and call me to the Chamber and say, "Hey, we've agreed to a law but this wasn't supposed to happen." Then we'll see what we can do about it. When it comes to the social impact and consequences of these laws and regulations, bears are sometimes seen on the road that are not there and there are things that are very easy to circumvent or resolve without changing the law. I have my own doubts as to whether I should say this in this house, and sometimes the impression that the introduction of these new laws and regulations has created a bit of an industry of all kinds of agencies and advisers who would like to put out the picture that it requires a lot of organisations and that if you do nothing, you will get a huge fine. Apart from the legitimate things that need to change, that is a bit scary with the optics of getting a beautiful assignment through, in the sense of: we know exactly how to prevent that. I want to look at what really needs to be done. Let me take the point of the disabled athletes. I also read the letter from NOC*NSF. He kind of surprised me a little bit. I'd like to talk to them and see what's really going on. I think that if you're a disabled athlete in a sport and just give permission to process that data, there's nothing wrong. Then it's just possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u97	I think it is a good thing that the Minister has just said those things about the importance that certain organisations may have in the sense that many organisations have to do a lot to comply with this law and that they sometimes see it as a earning model for themselves. We absolutely must avoid that, so I am glad the Minister said so. I am very curious how, if he is ultimately responsible for the implementation and implementation practice in the Netherlands, he wants to ensure a good balance between following these important privacy rules, which we all have a feeling about, and preventing all kinds of exaggerated and unnecessary interventions by all kinds of organisations that are not in the category of heavy data protectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u98	I want to do so by providing good, neutral and independent information. That is why I myself am pleased with the advisory function that the Dutch Data Protection Authority receives. We ourselves contribute from the Ministry of Justice and Security to also identify larger and medium-sized companies, when it comes to the heavier regimes, exactly what results from the law, what should and what should not. I hope that industry associations will also help. I'm happy to enter into partnerships. For example, we are already doing this with VNO-NCW and with SMEs Netherlands, but as far as I am concerned we are also doing this with parties like NOC*NSF and with education with the PO-Council and the VO-Council to make that clear. I believe that what is in this is really an improvement. If organisations do not yet comply, I believe that it is in their interest and also in the interest of, for example, the children who attend a school or the athletes who are members of an association, that the organisation with which they are dealing should be helped. But we're not here to make everything impossible. I think that's very important. Maybe I can give one more thing to Mr Verhoeven. I very much share his point about the big data companies, the Googles and the Facebooks of this world, but these laws and regulations are not just there to regulate them. We really need to realise that the use of data takes place on many fronts. Small and medium-sized enterprises also play an increasingly important role, and also in other organisations. Take the school, for example. You used to fit a sleeve there and it all went this way. But today, with all the digital learning resources available, we need to think very carefully about how, for example, a small school handles the data they have from students, because they are vulnerable children. They may not have to rig up a very heavy regime, but I would actually like it if a small school or a football association, just like you have a treasurer who pays attention to the money, asks someone: do you keep track of what happens within our organisation when it comes to processing personal data, because that is sensitive and we must have done it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u99	The Minister now mentions the issue of schools. I also had a comment on that myself. What about such a data protection officer, for example? Well, there's a discussion about that. The Minister says that it is always good to handle personal data properly and to have an eye for it. I couldn't agree more. You could also say: does it matter if you have a staff member; it is always good that someone is responsible for it. But then the follow-up step is that such a staff member has all kinds of demands: you have to have education. Before you know it, you're gonna end up in a bureaucracy again that we're wondering: is that all of this supposed to happen? What is the Minister's response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u100	I was actually about to start the whole block about the social impact. I've completed the legislation. I actually wanted to ask what this means for organisations, for companies. That's what this is all about. I'll look at the chairman, or I'll look at you. If at the end of the block this question has not been answered, then I would also be happy to come back to that, but it will be dealt with in what you want to say now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u101	I'm fine with it being a little late. Now let's just get to the general point. The Minister indicated that it is good even for small organisations to have an eye for it. Even if you're talking about ten people, it's vulnerable data sometimes. I agree, but does he agree with me at the level of this general exchange of views that we should be aware of the dangers of the enormous administrative burden that it entails and which are no longer in proportion to the importance that we then want to serve with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u102	I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij. It is also about proportionality and risk-oriented work. I just indicated that it would also be good if, so to speak, the football club appointed someone on its board or in its organization who also thinks about what you do with data processing, but a data officer such as the law that prescribes complex acts is not necessarily necessary there. I would like to point that out so that Mr Van der Staaij does not now think that I say that data officers should be appointed and set up there too. The law indicates exactly when to do so. I'm gonna say something about that later. But that doesn't include football clubs, unless they do very special things I don't know about. Mr. Chairman. What does this mean for companies and for organisations? There is undoubtedly some tension between the two objectives of the GDPR that I have just mentioned: to protect fundamental rights on the one hand and to guarantee a more free exchange of personal data on the other. Nevertheless, the protection of personal data and the promotion of the internal market are mutually exclusive, as technological developments and technological opportunities increase the need for rules of play. Conversely, it could be said that consumers' willingness to provide data is increasing to consumers' confidence in the way their data are processed. Thus, a high and good level of protection of personal data also promotes free economic movement within the EU. Having said this, it is first of all important to note that while the GDPR contains new elements and also shifts accents here and there, the basic principles for the lawful processing of personal data as enshrined in the Data Protection Act, i.e. the current law, actually remain firmly in place. I also dare to say that for companies and organisations that already meet the requirements of the Wbp, and therefore have a good understanding of their own information flows, that new GDPR regime is not a major landslide at all. Quite apart from the fact that, of course, you are already seeing this legislation coming into force, because it has already been adopted in Europe on 27 April 2016. However, the fact that the GDPR has obvious advantages does not mean that I close my eyes to the efforts that organisations and companies now have to make to monitor the data processing they carry out and, if necessary, adapt their business processes. Especially in the area of accountability and transparency, the GDPR demands more than before from controllers. For companies that are also in the process of catching up because they currently do not comply with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act, the leg will naturally require more time and effort, as the late maintenance is larger. I certainly have an eye for that, too. I have also been working with the AP for a long time and, for example, with VNO-NCW to make all kinds of efforts to ensure that things are in order, to provide tailor-made information to all companies and organisations so that they can be informed of the new rules that will enter into force on 25 May. I'm just gonna go through some of the things we're doing real quick. The Commission has recently launched a very comprehensive information campaign. The Article 29 group, as the predecessor of the Committee, has now issued a number of guidelines, which are seen in the GDPR and, for example, on the role and position of the data protection officer or on the impact assessment of data protection: what exactly are we supposed to mean by the phenomenon of profiling? The Ministry of J and V has recently published an accessible manual GDPR. This guide is primarily intended for companies and organisations that want to prepare their organisation for the new laws and regulations. Especially for small businesses, a practical, compact brochure will be published at the end of March, because you want to make it clear not only to the lawyers of large companies, but also to the retail sector, small and medium-sized enterprises and small businesses. Several meetings have recently been organised by the AP for specific sectors, which we know are subject to a great deal of personal data: the financial sector, local authorities, education, care and the advertising sector. This is what the AP specifically focuses on its information. And it is true that a more general campaign has been launched, an information campaign, on 29 January last, which also offers very concrete regulatory assistance to organisations that want to work on it. In general terms, I cannot say too much about exactly what it requires of companies and organisations, because it depends very much on the extent to which they process personal data and also on where they are already standing: do they already comply very well with the current Data Protection Act, or do they have to add a leg? But let me give you some examples, for example, it has already been mentioned, the football club: we have a very rich club life in the Netherlands, which of course sees all this coming on its own. In the end, I think it is important that they also realise that they process personal data from their members and that sometimes very sensitive, special personal data can be included. Think, for example, of data on children in which something is medically involved. Therefore, such a club should ensure that such data are not simply provided to third parties, but are kept, managed and properly secured. This also means that they need to secure their membership file properly. But all in all, in my view, it is reasonable demands and activities and efforts that are required of these associations which, in my view, should also be acceptable. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Koopmans asked whether there was sufficient attention with this law to the safe storage of data. I think that's only gonna get bigger and bigger. Maybe we're just at the beginning. The answer is yes: the GDPR is paying extra attention to this. I think that's necessary, too. For the sake of short, I refer to the recent annual report of the AIVD, which states that cybercrime hacking, the active search for personal data by malicious third parties, is an increasingly serious problem. This means, of course, for the very large companies, but also for smaller companies and organisations, that it is important to be aware of this and to try to ensure that security is as properly as possible. Mr President, I am just looking for...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr Koopmans is here to help us interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u104	He's here to rescue me. That gives me a chance to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u105	Take your time, Mr Koopmans, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u106	Take your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u107	I am indeed reminded that today is International Women's Day. That's very important. I see that we have many valuable visitors in the public gallery, including representatives of the Personal Data Authority. I also see that the Minister is very busy answering all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u108	I've found it by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u109	I would like to add a question to that, after he mentioned just now that it is important that data is stored safely and that organisations, the data processors, are committed to this. To what extent does the current regulation and future regulation contribute to ensuring that organisations, data processors, will maintain it internally? What, insofar as it is not yet fully settled, can we add to this point, so that there is clear enforcement within hacker protection organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u110	There is always a field of tension with this kind of regulation. To what extent do you write organisations exactly what they must have organised in order to get things in order? I believe that the GDPR already goes quite far on a number of points, for example with the mandatory register and the mandatory data officer. Then it's always a question of whether you have to prescribe exactly how they do their compliance internally and how they maintain, when it comes to dealing with that data. I do not think this legislation goes that far. At the same time, the standards have been clarified and this law offers citizens opportunities to complain about, for example, what an organisation does with your data. There is also the follow-up by a enforcing organisation, such as the Authority, which then has to work on it. Then they have the teeth to act on, which means that companies are going to scratch behind their ears a little more: if I really make a jar of it, or consciously do things with data that can't be done, then I have a big problem. With that combination of clear standards with a number of anchor points that you require from large organisations, but also with a good monitoring and enforcement follow-up, I think that every big company that takes itself seriously is going to make this really serious work. Let me say a few more things about what this requires from companies. What I was just looking for was about enforcement, but I will come back to that later in the block on the Authority. I have already said something about Article 30 and about the health data of athletes and sport. I think that's pretty easy to deal with. If there are other things going on, I'll talk to NOC*NSF. But with permission, I think there's a lot to be done. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked what should be done about SMEs? In short, all this means that companies and organisations need to be more aware of customer data, for example. Take a grocery chain. It must keep a record of the personal data it collects. So at least you have to map out what you're doing about data processing, for example, that you have security cameras or that you're working with customer cards, and what's behind them. The supermarket must also record what happens to that data and why it is necessary. From the AP, I understand that the first year of application of the GDPR will focus on further information and adjustment, and will not immediately seize upon the most serious means offered by this law. Practical assistance is also provided. In practice, there are a number of concrete changes for SMEs. Take, for example, the register of processing activities, the idea of privacy by design and by default, which you think about in advance when you design things, around registration, et cetera. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg asked: when exactly is such a data protection officer required? An important starting point in the Regulation is the risk-based approach. This means that voluntary associations, which, as it were, do nothing special with personal data, which do have a membership file and that kind of thing, but do not have crazy things, have to pay much less attention to this regulation than, for example, companies that do complex data processing on a very large scale. A data protection officer is required to do a number of things. One: with government agencies. Two: for large-scale processing due to regular and systematic observation of persons. And three: in the case of large-scale processing of special or criminal personal data. That already indicates that it is about the heavier processing. Whether processing is large-scale depends, in particular, on the number of people working with it. For an average sports association, I do not think that this will be an issue very soon, although of course I cannot fully see what is happening in practice there. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the registration. That's another story. What about the limit of 250 employees in Article 30? Is that workable? This is an honest answer that European legislation actually says: as long as and when there is systematic data processing, you have to register it properly, even below 250 employees. I now think, perhaps also because we are just a few years further away since the design of European legislation, that there are relatively few organisations in the Netherlands that can claim that they do not process personal data systematically. I therefore believe that virtually every organisation is actually obliged to record and map where it processes personal data, why it does so and why it is necessary to process these data. Now it will, of course, be a relatively limited thing for a small organisation or for an SME, such as the corner butcher. If you have a customer base because you have to deliver barbecue meat in the summer and send the bill, then such a register can speak on half an A4'. It's different for big companies. They have to do with much more processing activities. Such a register will be much more substantial there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u111	It is precisely for this reason that I had asked whether it is not possible to read Article 30 (5) in such a way that a company is not obliged to register if it has less than 250 employees but does not carry out risky processing. Because was actually the point of a butcher's register around the corner when it comes to 30 people in his neighborhood ordering meat for the barbecue in the summer or keeping a payroll for his five staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u112	I think that's a fair question. I think it is also good for that butcher around the corner to realize that this is useful when he works with a file of data and account numbers; I do not know exactly what is in it. When you set up a register like this, you think, if you put it on paper for a moment: goddamn it, yes, I'll do some things with that data processing; it's good that I think about it, that I'm doing it nicely, and that I've protected it well on my own computer, for example. I would like that for myself and not disproportionately. The second point is actually much more of a legislative matter: can we not read this article of the GDPR in a certain way? That is complicated, because if I go into this too much now, we are going to interpret European laws and regulations here in the national parliament. If 28 Member States do so, nothing will come of this uniformity. The authority to interpret what is meant by this is ultimately invested with our own authority, which, of course, makes agreements with colleagues elsewhere in Europe on definition issues and on interpretation. Maybe I can give you one more afterburner. This is much more part of the evaluation, but I can very well imagine that, if we are asked in other European countries for this kind of thing to go against other interests, we should have such a discussion in Europe too. This is something we cannot do as a national parliament or a national legislator. That is why we must return to Brussels. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about the position of churches: do they have a separate title in this law? That is not the case. Churches, like any other organisation in the Netherlands, have to comply with the law and therefore also with the GDPR. This means that they also have a certain responsibility in relation to the processing of personal data, for example a duty to report data leaks. Having said this, it is true that the GDPR and the UAVG have included a number of rules that apply specifically to church societies. In this context, it is important that church societies are excluded from the prohibition on the processing of special personal data in the context of their legitimate activities and with appropriate safeguards. The freedom of church societies to organise their ecclesiastical organisation as they see fit, as is the result of Article 2 of Book 2 of the Civil Code, is not restricted by the GDPR. Also good pastoral care does not need to be hindered by the GDPR or the UAVG. With regard to the consequences for minors, Mr Van Nispen said that sometimes something specific is said about children and not in other cases. My reaction to this is: if this is not explicitly reported, it does not mean that those provisions do not apply to them. Article 17, for example, concerns the right to be forgotten. This is not specified for minors, but of course it applies to them. Thus, where additional protection for children is deemed necessary, this is expressly provided for in the relevant provision. Those are the specific provisions. The generic provisions apply to everyone, including children. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the health data. The management model should not be used as a shield for example to circumvent quality controls. I very much agree with that. Therefore, where necessary, a legal basis for the Health and Youth Inspectorate will be established for access to health data. I refer to the proposal pending before the House of Representatives concerning the strengthening of the enforcement instruments of the Health and Youth Inspectorate. Mrs Buitenweg asked about automated decision-making, where a specific regime applies to children. She asked if we think that's enough. My first impression is. I am confident that what is in that recital, I think it is 71, that children should not be an object of automated decision-making, is a sufficient basis to ensure that children are given special protection. How this works in practice will vary from situation to situation. To bridge these differences, I suspect that the supervisors will conclave with each other to see how it works in specific situations. Let me give you an example: online learning or playing by children from education, where more and more is working with data to be interpreted and processed etc. No profiles should be derived from this and it should not be fully automated, so human intervention must always be involved. Mr President, I would like to go to the Personal Authority and the way in which it will be maintained. I can very well imagine that there are a lot of companies and organisations in the Netherlands that say: we have a law, this is about what is expected of us, but what is hanging over my head?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u113	Then may I ask a question that is almost a bridge? Take a nice Rosmalen football club, the largest in the Netherlands. If that association collects data to see if these f'jes can't go to young Ajax, can they contact the Dutch Data Protection Authority to ask: do we need to make a privacy assessment, should we have such a staff member? Then they will indeed be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u114	At the AP the phone is answered. Also when it comes to these specific questions, I really want to refer them to the AP, because they can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u115	So I hear you say that they are supposed to be so low-threshold that they can be sparred. People don't want to make mistakes, they just want to know what to meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u116	Yes. That was indeed a perfect bridge to the next. In the discussions I have had in the run-up to this debate, I can tell you that there is a need for reassurance as to how the Authority will deal with the enforcement tasks in the near future. The combination of the new and sometimes complex regulation with partly open standards and the supervisory authority to impose really high fines, on the one hand, leads to unrest and, frankly, I understand that perfectly. Conversely, you understand that I have no control over the task of an independent supervisor like the AP. So I cannot give you any reassurance in terms of firm commitments. Of course, it is reasonable for the Authority to be prudent in dealing with the powers at their disposal. It should always be borne in mind that also under the General Administrative Law Act, the AP is of course bound by the due diligence requirements that apply to all administrative bodies when imposing a sanction. To give an example: the raw imposition of an administrative fine is only possible on the basis of the lex certa principle if the offender was crystal clear or could be what was expected of him. This will also be a matter of time and development with open standards. In addition, I discussed this point with the Chairman of the Personal Data Authority, Mr Wolfsen. He assured me that the authority, especially in the early years of application of the GDPR, will focus mainly on information and guidance and, of course, really not immediately on fineing basketball associations or local middlemen who are willing to do the best they can to keep to the rules. It is, of course, a different story when there are deliberate or serious abuses, but we must also realise that we are at the beginning of a process in which a lot of organisations and companies are working to get it right. In order to adjust, we have also added a typical Dutch instrument in the UAVG to the arsenal of sanctions that a supervisory authority can impose under this law. That might be nice to give to your room. That is the burden of penalty payments. An offender may thus avoid an effective penalty, in this case the forfeiture of the penalty payment, by removing the unlawfulness within the prescribed period. I've discussed that with the authority, too. So you also have a number of resources that are not aimed at: we are a strict police officer and if we see something that is not good, we will immediately pay hard. So you have a number of instruments in your repertoire that you can say: no, we are mainly focused on achieving compliance, restoring and improving practices in companies and organisations. I have faith in that. I believe that this is also an answer to the questions put by Mr Koopmans and Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Van Toorenburg on appropriate or accompanying enforcement. Maybe I can translate that into a combination of advice and enforcement, and some of it is also aimed at recovery. The authority is of course all too well aware that it has a problem directly with its own authority when it first starts to maintain in a place where everyone frowns on his eyebrows. We do not know, of course, because it is up to the authority itself, but I really assume that the first cases of fines are very likely cases which we all consider to be obvious that something went wrong there. That will be a company or organization that was at least big enough to realize that something was going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u117	It may sound a bit unkind, but we are completely shocked by the way in which the Dutch Data Protection Authority has dealt with the exchange of data in the municipality of Tilburg with regard to undermining. Then you read an 80-page report at some point and you wonder who we're actually protecting, the criminals or the average Dutchman who doesn't want his children to be blown up. So, with the Minister's confidence, I think we should pay attention to what we're doing, because who are we protecting? I say that very loudly here, in the presence of the authority. I'd like to put that notion aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u118	In my view, this is above all a comment which is intended to be directed towards the public gallery. I know that report, too, and I'm gonna take it up a little bit for the AP now. You know that, together with my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, I am also incredibly keen on this. The fight against certain forms of crime, such as undermining, also requires that we, as legislators, regulate the exchange of information better legally. That is the painful place the Dutch Data Protection Authority put its finger on. The exchange might have been desirable in the context of the fight, but we had not properly regulated it legally. Then you may call on me or my colleague to do better. In fact, this is also possible with the UAVG, because one of the reasons for exchanging is a legal basis. Mr. Chairman. I said something about the enforcement regime. I would also like to say a few words about the authority's budget, because some comments have been made on this. Is that enough? There's a report that indicates that there are different variants. There's a minimum variation. The amount that the AP received last year is even a little below that. I can see that, too. At the same time, my approach would be: let's start for a moment, make sure that we actually manage to spend that money properly on good people who have the capacity to do the work of the Personal Data Authority. If it pinches, of course, we'll just have another conversation. Then Mr Wolfsen will know where to find me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u119	The Minister himself summarizes the scenarios. Even the lowest scenario is not reached, while the middle scenario, which is really a lot of million extra, is the most likely scenario. Even the highest scenario can't be ruled out. I am sorry that this investigation is not being observed. Either you're saying that the investigation isn't really correct, or I don't hear the minister say "the money isn't there right now to give the Dutch Data Protection Authority the budget that is actually part of the scenarios under consideration." The question now is: what is the pace at which the Minister is going to monitor this? What if there is a storm with the Dutch Data Protection Authority, as of the entry into force of the GDPR, from 25 May 2018? Then there may be a lot of requests for information from companies asking what to do and from citizens asking what exactly to do with their data. Maybe then there will be signals to enforce. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Hoe snel kan de minister de signalen die dan mogelijk komen verwerken en aan de Kamer rapporteren?]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u120	I just indicated that we're going to monitor this properly, not just the effects of the law on the outside world. What does this mean for organizations? As far as I'm concerned, but also what it means for the Personal Data Authority. You'll be talking about six months. Then we're just gonna put the probe in again. For the moment, I have no concrete indications that the authority would not be able to cope with the budgets it currently has. In fact, the authority is very busy reorganising, getting the good people, spending the 7 million extra last year in a good way. You said get it straight to the spring note. First of all, I do not want to anticipate the whole decision-making procedure around the forthcoming budget. You will be informed about this on Princess Day. Right now, I think the AP can handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u121	Well, then we don't think so. I also have indications that the Dutch Data Protection Authority can't get away with the current budget for this year either. That Regulation has not yet entered into force, but it will take place on 25 May 2018. May I ask the Minister to report to the Chamber a few weeks after the entry into force of that regulation, in consultation with the Personal Data Authority, prior to the handling of the Spring Note? I wonder what's against it. If there is no additional money available, then we have a discussion about it. But then we can at least see what the first signals are from the entry into force of that regulation. I think that for six months too long, even for the confidence that people must have that their personal data is being handled properly and that we do not agree on these rules for nothing as we agreed on them. The uncertainties and uncertainties surrounding this need to be removed as much as possible. This is an important task for our privacy watchdog, so can the Minister promise that he will inform the Chamber for the handling of the Spring Note about the signals from practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u122	That's too soon. You are talking about a few weeks after the entry into force on 25 May. First, let's see how that's going to fly. Let me give you an example. That 7 million is a little below that minimum scenario. At the same time, it is a doubling of the budget of the Personal Data Authority. That organization is working very hard to grow very rapido hugely. I think that this should be done in a way and at a rate that is acceptable. I have the appointment with the AP that we monitor the realization and their actual expenditure very neatly. That means, if there are any real bottlenecks, I'll come back to the Chamber with that. But a few weeks after the entry into force of this bill is really too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u123	The Minister acknowledges that the budget is below the minimum. So I would first like to know if he thinks that there is not enough money if you look objectively at the report that has been published on this subject. I understand very well that the Minister says we need to look at things first. At the same time, however, I fear that confidence in the regulation will be reduced if people do not have easy access to the authority, for example because they have to wait a very long time, little happens or there is a lack of helpful handling and enforcement. It takes a lot of time to do that right. If there is not enough money at the moment, let me see if the Minister supports this qualification. There is a danger that you will get off to a bad start, that we will almost not be able to recover because citizens' confidence has diminished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u124	I don't get the impression there's not enough money. I referred to a number of research scenarios. An organizational agency has outlined exactly what different variants mean in the long term. Last year the budget doubled. For an organization, and therefore also for the AP, it's a huge blow to make yourself twice as big as you've always been. You also have to make sure that such an organization keeps running a bit well. I have the impression that the AP with the money it is getting now is well equipped to carry out its tasks properly at the moment. Of course, we all don't know what that looks like in one, two or three years' time. That's why we made the deal to monitor it properly. You can't have that picture clear two weeks after the law was introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u125	Now there are a number of arguments running through each other. The first is whether the AP is able to double or increase the budget properly. I think this is something for the execution. I didn't hear the authority complain about that. I also believe that there is no evidence to suggest that the organisation is not functioning properly. So I don't think that's really a valid argument. Then there is the point that it is below the minimum specified by the Examination Office. Then it may be that the Minister does not accept the Examination Office or its findings, but if he does accept those findings, the conclusion is that there is still too little money. I am concerned about a good start on behalf of GroenLinks. Of course, we can always look at everything in the autumn, but I repeat that there is a danger that a good start will be put at risk if the authority does not have sufficient resources. Of course there is an increase in the previous budget, but the task we are now proposing to the authority is also hugely greater than it was. This also includes a strong strengthening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mrs Buitenweg did not hear me say that the budget for the Personal Data Authority will not change in the future. I've been talking about it all along. I have also indicated what it takes for an organization to grow enormously in a short time. There is not always a bottleneck in the form of money to go through that growth. Especially in the current labour market, it is also the question of where to get good and skilled people and how much time it takes to train them properly. I can see that this is being worked on very hard. There is an agreement with the AP to first see how the doubling of the organisation works and what it can do with it. If it's gonna get tight in the long run, we're gonna have another conversation. Perhaps from there I can go straight to Mr Verhoeven's question about the authority's own budget. That is a discussion that we have had very recently with the Personal Data Authority. I refer to the letter of amendment. I believe that Mr Van Nispen did the same. I apologize for coming at the very last minute. That had to do with interdepartmental coordination. That letter of amendment changes a bit in the position of the authority. It's in the ZBO status of the AP. It follows from the GDPR that the AP must have a separate and public budget. This is also explicitly stated in Article 11 of the UAVG.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u127	May I ask the Minister how much time he thinks he needs in this period? I would ask you to do this in view of the clock, because we still have a lunch break to go, which should be done, and also an arrangement of work and a VAO with votes. So there is a possibility that we might still be sweet with this. In that case, I will decide to do the second term next week, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u128	I can speed it up, but I still have a few things to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u129	Yes, and it is also a bit complicated, so I would like to try to ensure that we are still at half an hour, until 2.10 p.m. or 2.15 p.m., and that we stop this debate. Then we'll go somewhere else next week. We can't get rid of this either, because it's too technical and too complicated for that. We can't do that either. Let's do it like this. Then we're gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u130	Maybe I could just take a quick look at how we're gonna be with the Upper House in time. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u131	I hear the date of May 25th, so that would suggest that you still have a little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u132	Would you mind suspending for a moment later so we can discuss this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u133	Maybe we should do that now. I'm gonna suspend and talk to the secretary's employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u134	For example, we continue and try to complete it within half an hour, including the second term. The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u135	Mr. Chairman. The question about the combination of supervision and advice is clearly on the retina. There is nothing legally that prevents that, but there are, of course, internal discussions to see how this can be properly arranged. I'm going through it for a very short time. Why not include this regulation in the BES? In the case of a lot of legislation and regulations, we consider exactly what the islands can handle. In doing so, we have made the decision not to do it yet. The reporting obligation data leaks for non-financial corporations is now also included in the Personal Data Protection Act. The reason for this is that there is a need to report to the financial supervisor, but there is a risk of a possible bank run and of confidence in the banking system. These kinds of reports can therefore have some unwanted effects elsewhere. E-Court. The GDPR indicates this when it comes to sufficient transparency of algorithms. This does not mean that they are completely released, but that they do have to meet a number of things. I am thinking, for example, of the underlying logic of algorithms. Furthermore, the prohibition of automated individual decision-making laid down in Article 22, which requires a decision by such an e-Court, always requires human intervention. That must be done in a way that is really meaningful. It's not just a stamp, it's more than that. I shall come back to this later on in the opinion on the amendments. I'll take a look at Mrs. Buitenweg. I believe you had also tabled an amendment on the intelligence and security services?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u136	That's what's touching.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u137	That's what's touching. Maybe I can take it with me. I am going to advise on the amendments and the questions that touch on them, and I will deal directly with them. The amendment in part No. 10 by Mrs Buitenweg, who seeks to appoint the members on the proposal of the House of Representatives, I would advise against. The independence of the authority is not determined by the method of appointment but is in fact laid down in the GDPR itself. There are a number of guarantees, such as independence in the exercise of tasks and powers. The AP is an independent administrative body with an independent position secured by European law. Nor does the comparison with the General Court go far enough. The reason why the members of the General Court are appointed on a proposal from the House of Representatives lies in the fact that the General Court performs its tasks primarily for the Parliament. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from I think that's an interesting discussion. Mr Van Nispen asked whether this GDPR would make it stricter for journalism. In my view, that is not the case. The GDPR requires that there should always be a balance between the right to freedom of opinion, the fact that journalists should be able to do their work properly and the right to privacy and protection of personal data. On something like the Panama Papers, there is an obvious public interest in why journalists should be able to express that kind of thing. This amendment goes one step further. In fact, the GDPR doesn't want to apply that to journalism at all. I think that this is a risk, because that means that journalists, who are understood very widely in European laws and regulations, are no longer subject to any kind of protection of personal data, because many different journalisms are no longer subject to any kind of protection of personal data. Well, then I think that's kind of freaking out. One could almost say, in a manner of speaking, that this is at odds with the GDPR, in which the European legislator has stated that there must always be a balance of interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u138	I am sorry, Mr President, but I have to ask a question about this. In the eyes of the Minister and, I know, in those of a number of others, it is true that those who are journalists are being interpreted more and more strictly than the European Court of Human Rights does, for example, that someone is only a journalist if a reply can be given. That is one of the ways in which the Dutch Government sometimes interprets this. The European legislator has left room here and the Netherlands does not take up all the space. However, the government does not argue why it gives less space to journalists than the European regulation allows. I can only see that the European Court of Human Rights has a broader definition than the Minister. That is why I would like to maintain my amendment. If the Minister betrays it, I would really like to hear an argument from him as to why he thinks that the scope given by the regulation is too large.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u139	I think that the scope given for this amendment to be adopted is too great. That says that for journalistic purposes a whole bunch of chapters does not apply. With that, you're actually putting the entire GDPR out of operation for journalistic purposes. I'd say that's unwise. Maybe I can meet Mrs Buitenweg. She says that there is more discretion for Member States than the Netherlands uses with this UAVG, as there is discretion around age, for example, and a number of other things that I have said I would like to look at again. Then I would very much like to take this into account in the letter that I am going to send you after the summer on what we can do more or else when it comes to the policy area that we still have in European legislation, as I think this is really going too far. I take the question and the theme seriously. I think it's well arranged, but I'd like to take another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u140	At least I heard your strategy. I'm still maintaining my amendment. I would like to point out that it is not the case that the GDPR will not apply at all to journalists. What my amendment is doing is making full use of the space provided by the GDPR. A large number of issues will certainly apply to journalists. For example, the addresses of members of newspapers will still be covered by the GDPR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u141	I think that our interpretations of the amendment are now somewhat different, so I stick to the opinion. With the commitment, no matter how the vote goes, I will get to work. Then there is Mrs Buitenweg's amendment, which deals with the provision of telecommunications services and which provides for information on the extent and nature of the obligations of cooperation and information imposed on them. I would advise against this amendment. The processing of personal data in the context of national security is an exception to the GDPR and therefore also to the UAVG. The legal framework for such processing is established by the Intelligence and Security Services Act, the Wiv. Any exceptions do not belong in the UAVG. I also have great reservations about the content of this amendment. Indeed, an overview per provider indicates the number and types of tapes for which a provider receives requests or has cooperated, the number of requests for NAW data and so on. If, for example, you have never had this information, it is information which, at least, the intelligence services would prefer not to disclose and which in some cases is even state secret. I can be brief on the amendment to item No. 13, that's about the ages. I would advise against that at the moment, but you have the promise that I will return to that in the letter after the summer. Mr Van Dam's amendment, I am also looking at Mrs Van Toorenburg with a sloppy eye, because they are from the same party, which is about requiring three members to be prescribed by the Authority. I have the impression that it has worked well with two Members recently. I see there's a lot coming up on the AP. You have made a number of comments: can't you separate things? Of course, the possibilities will increase if you have three Members, so I can follow that reasoning well and leave the judgement to the Chamber. The same applies to the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Staaij in respect of item No. 15, which deals with the specific needs of small businesses. The GDPR considerations provide an incentive to take into account the specific needs of small enterprises in the application of the GDPR. This does not require implementation in national law. In any event, the AP will have to weigh all relevant interests as an administrative body on the basis of the Awb. However, I have no major objections as to why I should advise negatively and can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Finally, the amendment to item No. 16, which provides that the exception for reporting data leaks to data subjects for financial companies is to lapse. With the answers I have just given in the first period, I would like to discourage them. Let me look at the President or the Registrar and see if I have had all the amendments. I have therefore come to the conclusion of the first deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u142	Very good. Thank you. Thanks for the pace, too. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I call Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's actually quite fun, such a complex subject, I have to say honestly. I thank the Minister for a very comprehensive answer. I have two questions that haven't been answered. One concerns the control of the European Court of Justice and the scope of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights beyond those areas within the power of the European Union. I find that simply constitutionally interesting. And also to the question of why sex has not been named a special character, I would like to answer. For the rest, I am very pleased that the Minister has indicated the importance of the regulation and that it is also very broad and important for all organisations, and of course you hope that it will not create unnecessary administrative burdens for many organisations. It is important because there has to be some kind of cultural change, that you can't just process all kinds of data because we do it now, but that we really think about why which data is collected and what you can do with it. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. He will see to a subject that the Minister had not yet answered. That is about soft law and democratic control of it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Data Protection Board ensures the correct application of the General Data Protection Regulation and may provide guidance, recommendations and requirements;]] [[Whereas the decisions of the Committee may have general binding effects and democratic legitimacy is desirable for this purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to take the lead at European level to ensure that the European Parliament democratically legitimises the functioning of the coherence mechanism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34851-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u144	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u145	Mr. Koopmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u146	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank the Minister very much for answering the many questions. I have two motions, one short and one slightly longer. The short one I call "helpful enforcement." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Personal Data Authority is independent and has both an enforcement function and an information function;]] [[Whereas economic operators, sports associations, voluntary organisations, church societies and private individuals still have many questions about the content and scope of data processing rules;]] [[Whereas, at the stage where there are still many questions about the rules, the authorities should act as helpful as possible and should therefore focus primarily on information and assistance in the interpretation and implementation of the rules, without prejudice to its enforcement role in relation to conscious violations;]] [[invites the Government to explicitly bring this position to the attention of the Personal Data Authority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Koopmans, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Dam, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34851-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u147	Mr. Chairman. Then my second and slightly longer motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Data Protection Regulation will enter into force on 25 May 2018;]] [[noting that the Government has requested the Chamber to examine the draft law on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation with speed;]] [[noting that the government has opted for a policy-neutral implementation in view of its early entry into force;]] [[noting that the discussion on data protection law has not been concluded with the entry into force of the Regulation and the implementing law and that there are still several questions and wishes in this area within the Court;]] [[invites the Court to report to it within six months of the entry into force of the Regulation and the Implementing Act on the experience and intentions of, if necessary by means of new legislation, at least the following aspects:]] [[the processing of health data in the context of sport, such as for disabled sport and (other) top sport;]] [[the processing of data by smaller organisations such as voluntary organisations, sports associations, church societies and others;]] [[the processing of health data of workers in the event of illness;]] [[the privacy aspects of the sector-wide creation of blacklists of fraudsters;]] [[the scope of the Regulation, in particular in view of the exception for purely personal or household activities;]] [[the initial experience of the processing by the Personal Data Authority of individual requests and complaints;]] [[the age limit for children to legally authorise the use of their personal data in an online environment;]] [[the scope of the derogation for small businesses for keeping a register for all personal data they process;]] [[the scope for the use of personal data for journalistic purposes;]] [[the scope of the exceptions to the prohibition of automated decision-making;]] [[the possibility of declaring an ex parte prohibition similar to Article 1019e of the Civil Procedure Code applicable to serious breaches of the General Data Protection Regulation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Koopmans, Mr Van Dam, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Buitenweg, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34851-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u148	Strengthening privacy rights is important. These are the principles of the General Data Protection Regulation, which is why the SP also supports the Implementing Act. But there are still concerns about small and medium-sized enterprises, journalists and so on; you have just heard the list. We have co-signed the motion, because we think it is very important to keep an eye on how that works in practice and how we are going to solve it. I would also like to call on the Minister not to wait six months, but to get to work without delay on any problems that may arise. If necessary, we shall raise them ourselves. The SP remains concerned about the capacity of the Personal Data Authority. It has important tasks and many important tasks. We've talked about that a lot. And I regret that the report has not been complied with, in order to provide the corresponding budget to the Personal Data Authority. Soon Mr Verhoeven, also on behalf of the SP, will table a motion calling on the government to monitor the increase in duties and to return to the Chamber before the end of this year. I am quite honest in saying that this is the absolute minimum for me. Because I actually think that we should take the report that has been requested seriously. That is why I am tabling the next motion, because I believe that we should give the privacy watchdog sufficient budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that with the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation on 25 May 2018, the Personal Data Authority will be given additional tasks;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Authority has had Personal Data examined the need for an additional amount of between EUR 16 and 22 million in order to carry out all its tasks properly;]] [[noting that the Personal Data Authority will only receive an additional EUR 7 million to carry out its tasks;]] [[considers that a supervisory authority can only exercise good supervision if it has sufficient effectiveness and therefore sufficient financial resources;]] [[Asks the government not only to monitor afterwards whether the Dutch Data Protection Authority needs more money, but to respect the results of Andersson Elfers Felix's report, and thus to make more money available to the Dutch Data Protection Authority in spring paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34851-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u149	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I thought we had a good debate on this very complex issue. This was of course on the main lines, because a lot still needs to be worked out and put into practice, but I do think that important pickets have been put in place. I would also like to thank the Minister for his positive approach to my amendment No. 15. For my group, it is indeed very important that the law itself should now have a hook to take into account smaller organisations in practice. So thank you again for that benevolent judgment. I shall table one more motion without further explanation. Our sympathy and support for other motions tabled, namely those tabled by Mr Koopmans, has already been demonstrated by the co-signatory. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in many sectors there is uncertainty as to the application of the open standards in the General Data Protection Regulation;]] [[noting that many organisations do not have an obligation under Article 37 of the Regulation to appoint a data protection officer because they do not engage in large-scale data processing;]] [[having noted that on the basis of, inter alia, the Data Protection Officer Directive of the Article 29 Working Group of the European Privacy Supervisors, the examples explicitly refer to the large scale of, for example, hospitals and insurers and not to, for example, smaller schools, associations, churches and companies;]] [[Whereas there is a lack of clarity in society as to the applicability of the provisions on the staff member because of the large scale of data processing and that this will tend institutions and companies to choose the safe way without actually dealing with large-scale data processing, with all the administrative burdens involved;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the earliest possible submission by the Personal Data Authority of clear guidelines for the application of the standards set out in the Data Protection Officer Regulation and to ensure that smaller institutions and businesses are protected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34851-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying. That went in a careful and quick way. I think that was good right now. Thank you also for Mr Koopmans' motion, which I have co-signed. I know that this will include me in the Guinness Book of Records, because his motion is the longest motion ever read in the Dutch House of Representatives, but that does justice to this complex debate and this complex matter. I believe that we have had a good debate, in which the Chamber has looked at the matter fairly unanimously. We do want a number of things: a level playing field at European level, limiting companies that abuse their data power, taking into account the Dutch situation and putting the enforcer and supervisor, the Dutch Data Protection Authority. We do not want small organisations to be unnecessarily put at a cost by suggesting a very complex law requiring very expensive advice. And we do not want rigid supervision but helpful supervision, as Mr Koopmans said so well. That's good. The balance we need to seek is to comply with and enforce this law without unnecessary costs and burdens for all the organisations involved. I believe that we want to work on this together, both in the Cabinet and in the Chamber. Then I have two more motions, Mr. Chairman. The first goes like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas different age limits are used in many different laws and regulations;]] [[Whereas the Council for Health and Society is conducting an investigation into the randomness of age limits and that this study may also provide relevant insights into the age limit in the UAVG, which we have discussed today;]] [[invites the Government to reconsider the age limit in the UAVG following the publication of the investigation by the Council for Health and Society on the randomness of age limits, if justified on the basis of the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34851-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u151	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Personal Data Authority has been given numerous additional tasks and powers in recent years and by the GDPR and other laws and regulations;]] [[Notes that the Personal Data Authority should have and maintain sufficient capacity and resources to perform its tasks and powers properly;]] [[Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before the end of 2018 on how the Personal Data Authority is able to perform its additional tasks and powers properly, including in the light of the opinion of Andersson Elfers Felix on the different scenarios regarding the implementation of the tasks and powers of the AP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34851-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u152	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u153	Mr. Chairman. There are two questions and a number of motions. Mrs Buitenweg's first question is whether the scope of the GDPR is wider and whether there is a role for the Court of Justice. The answer to that is negative. The protection of the GDPR is parallel to the scope of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. What does not fall under EU law is not covered by the GDPR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u154	The tricky thing is that we have said that the GDPR applies not only to the areas within the scope of the Union, but to all the data in the European Union. So constitutionally that is complicated, because that would mean that there is a different interpretation in the areas outside Union law to which the data protection regulation applies than in the other parts. I therefore believe that there is an extension of the application of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and possibly the Court of Justice. But perhaps this constitutional finesse still needs to be explained further in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u155	Can I take this? 'Cause I think this is something to chew on. I could also say that what goes out there should grow to. I don't know if it's automatic. I've made a commitment: within the next six months. Will we therefore take up this very legal and almost constitutional debate? Then I can at least think about the substance, perhaps I could have a conversation with some of my colleagues, and then I will come back to that. What I am not going to come back to, although I can follow the discussion well, is the question why we have not made gender special personalities. I can imagine that a huge tree could be set up about the desirability of this. We have also said a few things in the coalition agreement about its application at national level. But if we were to change that into national legislation, we would be in breach of the GDPR. The GDPR lists quite limited on what special personal characteristics are. We simply do not get to the question of desirability, because it cannot and should not. I come to the motions and begin the motion in part No. 17 by Mrs Buitenweg, on the European identification of what the committee is about to do. I'm dissuading the motion. Formal assent of the European Parliament, according to the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, can only be given to implementing acts adopted by the Commission or the Council. If you want this, you should change the treaty. Quite frankly, I do not see one-two-three happening, at least not specifically on this subject. The motion in part No. 18 is about giving a focus to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I can follow that very well. I have already said some reassuring words about this myself in the debate, but I can live with it. That's why I'm leaving the judgment to the Chamber. The same applies to what I have been instructed to do directly in the motion for a resolution on item No. 19, to do an extensive evaluation, with a whole pride of subjects. Of some you can say that they stem from the question of how the new laws and regulations will soon land. A few other questions to do something extra. We are going to have this debate in the autumn. I'd like to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u156	Is there any objection to taking over this motion? I find that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u157	The motion in part No. 20 I'm going to dissuade. That will not surprise Mr Van Nispen. Any discussion about money is again an integral consideration. We're not gonna do that in the end. To ease the pain perhaps slightly, I jump to the motion in part no. 23. On this motion, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. I don't think it's a problem in itself to give some insight by the end of the year. I'm going back to the motion on part no. 21. This is also through me an appeal to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. When it comes to promoting, I can go a long way with it. There's nothing I can promise about guarantees. If Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van Toorenburg understand the position in which I operate and the independence of the Personal Data Authority that I respect, I would like to give the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. I see both proposers responding positively. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 22 by Mr Verhoeven. I can go a long way with that too. On that motion, too, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr President, I am through all the motions. Maybe a word of thanks after all. I would like to thank the Chamber, the Registry, the Chairman and the spokesmen for the tremendously vigorous way in which this issue has been dealt with and debated. Sometimes you have these trajectories that are really rushing. The debate still stands today, and I particularly appreciate the way in which it actually went in very good cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u158	Fine. Thank you to the Minister for his presence. Thank you to the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u159	On Tuesday we will vote on the law and on the motions. After the suspension we have a short arrangement of work and proceed.
