ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u1	The next item is the joint debate on the legislative proposals already mentioned under the 2019 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u2	I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance for the follow-up to his first reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I could not have answered one question from Mrs Sent in the first three blocks. When exactly is this evaluation of the Innovation Box taking place? That's been looked up by now. The latest evaluation dates back to 2016. The next evaluation is scheduled for 2022. That's what it says in this year's Millions Note. Then my fourth block. It's one of my favorite blocks: tax avoidance. It's been so much fun tonight, but I hope it gets even more fun. I've already given an introductory shot. Now it is more about the specific questions, for example in relation to the ATAD measures. What does an Earnings Stripping measure do? The aim of such a measure is not to deduct too much interest. This included housing corporations, about which some questions have been asked. Ms Sent and Mr Köhler drew attention to the burden on housing companies as a result of this measure. Couldn't you make an exception? A small debate has already been held on this subject. The government believes that the inclusion of an exception for housing corporations is legally too risky. We have had a number of discussions on this in the past on corporate tax obligations. The risk of prohibited State aid is therefore too high. So we have not been able to find that way out. At the same time, we are paying attention to the problems faced by housing companies. They are an important partner, even when it comes to sustainability. In addition to the already foreseen reduction in the landlord's tax on sustainability, the cabinet has proposed an additional reduction of the landlord's tax of 100 million. In this way, the most targeted subsidy for housing corporations is achieved. In this sense, the cabinet is perhaps looking in the same corner as Mr Köhler, although we do not consider a one-to-one compensation in the landlord levy. At the same time, the cabinet significantly lowers the Vpb rate. That is included in the table. The housing corporations also enjoy this. If you add that up, you can see that in the years of this cabinet there is a burden relief for housing corporations. Mr Köhler could now say that there is a structural increase in the burden. That is true, but the investment capacity of the housing corporations for the coming years is only greater, because their burdens are lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u4	Mr Köhler, I am not giving you the floor. I want the Secretary of State to have the opportunity to make a bit of an answer first, because I'm watching the clock. You'll have a second term and you'll be able to interrupt shortly, but not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u5	That also gives the sector room, as I said, to make the necessary sustainability investments. As a cabinet, we have ambitions in the housing market. Again, the corporations are our partner in that. I have previously promised the House of Representatives that I will continue to follow this explicitly, because this is what we expect to happen. Mr Köhler had other figures. I keep following it, both what the corporations pay for corporation tax and what they pay for landlord tax. The cabinet will also send the report of developments to the First Chamber as soon as we have made that report. If it is different from what we are expecting, then at least there is a report showing whether we were right or not. I shall now turn to a question from Mr Backer. He was pleased to note that there has been a trend break in the approach to tax avoidance in our country. He asked me what my EU colleagues, companies and other stakeholders think about that. If you go far enough, his question was to me. Of course, that is always a matter of taste, but I am very ambitious. I have announced from day one that I believe that tax avoidance should have no place in the Netherlands. Everyone in the Netherlands, citizens and businesses, must pay their fair share. I want to keep watching. It's not like I'm the first to think so. My predecessors have already taken important steps. I refer to the implementation of ATAD 1 under the Dutch Presidency. In the further implementation of the proposals for directives, we go beyond what Europe is forcing us to do. For example, we have reduced the threshold from 3 million to 1 million in this Earnings Stripping measure. In short, we are making the measure work faster. And so there are more examples of European directives that we are a little more stringent than the bare minimum. I think that we should also be able to take the lead from time to time. In general, we find that other countries see that as well; I also like that. We have recently been described as "constructive critical." That is actually exactly the label we want. We do not say yes to everything, but we are not in favour of obstructing all kinds of good plans. That was also the case with the digitals. This also applies to the debate on tax avoidance, and in particular to the transparency that we want to apply there. The OECD and the IMF have already written several times that the Netherlands is seriously working on the approach to tax avoidance and that this can be approved. Moreover, we are not only doing this because the EU or the OECD is so keen to do so. If we want to take the Dutch location climate seriously, I think it is right that we retain the strong elements and that we are sometimes prepared to take a different approach at the edges of these strong elements. I have also had several meetings on this dossier with the stakeholders around me. I have organised a dialogue with both the supporters and opponents of further tackling tax avoidance. We've had Internet consultations. So we are really in the process of finding broad support for the approach we are taking. You may find that what we are doing is going too far or does not go far enough, but I think we have a reasonable balance that suits the Netherlands. Mr Ester asked: if we want to do this, can you really enforce compliance? Can we impose sanctions? He also asked if I could not be even more firm in this, at least I suspected a bit that was the underlying question. I would like to point out that compliance in the Netherlands is still very high in general, fortunately. The Dutch citizens and companies, at all levels, are still often and well prepared to pay for the facilities they receive. It's different in a lot of countries. It is not unimportant to point out that, despite the fact that we sometimes have discussions about tax avoidance and what we want to do with it, the Dutch companies in general are loyal taxpayers. We're glad to hear that. We do not want this to be any different from our policy. The same companies also know very well what the consequences are if they do not comply. The tax authorities continue to be behind the rules, as a number of black savers have been able to notice again this week. In short, we're already on it. I certainly didn't intend to sit on it any less. Then there were questions about the CFC measure, another part of the approach to tax avoidance. Mr Binnema and Mr Ester had questions about this. It was mainly about the choice we made in the Netherlands for the two different models that are possible according to the directive: model A and model B. In fact, model B says that you should look even more precisely where profits are made, so that profits on paper do not all fall down in a kind of controlled environment and in a very low tax haven. By the way, we already have Model B in our legislation. So we are already applying the transfer pricing rules in accordance with the arm's-length principle or the business principle, as it is well said too. In addition, we say: there are already profits that you cannot store there anyway. At the same time, in addition to the model, we have to choose either A or B or we already have B, but we also have to opt for A. That is what this means. If a CFC, that controlled company, is also in that tax haven, then you cannot just knock down the funds there unless there are substantial economic activities. Then the question is: are we not talking about substance requirements? The discussion is indeed: how do you measure that and how do you know that there are essential economic activities? We have substance requirements for that. We have substance requirements for presence in the Netherlands within the ruling practice. We have substance requirements when it comes to interest and royalty obligations. This is about substance above the Netherlands, but this is about substance under the Netherlands. That's kind of hard to check for our shift. But if we choose to tighten that substance and demand even more, you say that it would be easy to get past it, then we have to show that the construction we see is completely artificial. This has to do with primary EU law. That is what EU law says. The burden of proof can therefore often be reversed. This was also evident recently in a German case dealt with by the European Court of Justice. The tax authorities must then prove that this construction is deliberately artificial and is also completely artificial. And we see that it often becomes difficult for the tax authorities when that evidence demand is reversed to make the point. So it not only takes a lot of time for business through administrative burdens, but also through implementation costs for the Tax Administration, without us really thinking that we are getting along very well with that. For these reasons, I have been reluctant to make the substance requirements in this CFC legislation much more stringent. By the way, the question was also: wasn't it true that they would soon be published? The answer is yes. The substance requirements are published in the Official Journal before the end of the year in the end of the year. This is precisely what we think of this real economic activity. Now Mr Binnema also had a question about the height. When is something a tax haven, so to speak? In our first proposal we looked at the statutory rate of 7%. In the meantime, this has been amended in the Lower House. It's now at 9%. When your nominal rate is below 9%, we call you a low-tax country. We would then like, when you come on that list, to say the black list, to separate ourselves from the black list that we have in Europe from withholding tax on all direct payments to these jurisdictions. So they're getting into the tax. Moreover, due to the Interest and royalty Directive in Europe, this principle cannot be applied to an EU Member State. That's actually why that 9% says why it's there. If we went higher, the inclusion of this law would be contrary to EU law, because there are European countries with a rate of 10%. That is why we are now at 9%, and that is, I think, a kind of reasonable limit to say: Europe says 'you must have zero and then you will be low-taxed', but we are actually going beyond Europe. We say that nominally less than 9% are going to be low-taxed, so we need to take measures. Mr Ester had a question about the Earnings Stripping measure and its impact on SMEs. Again, it was the interest relief measures. It is true, I say to Mr Ester through the President, that we have actively included a threshold of 1 million in this measure. The interest payment must first be above 1 million if you are to be eligible to be affected by the Earnings Stripping measures. In fact, this already spares the majority of SMEs. We have actively contributed this, because it was not the intention of many SMEs to suffer from this. On balance, 93% of this cover measure amounts to large companies and around 7% of the budgetary revenue is for SMEs. This concerns, in particular, the really larger SMEs. So it's true what he assumed. Mr Köhler had further questions about the recent reports on the possibility for multinationals to deduct interest or take into account liquidation losses, which allowed them to make their profits on paper very low and not pay a profit tax. Mr Ten Hoeve also asked me a little about this tax burden on multinationals. You'll understand I'm not allowed to tell you too much. In fact, I just have a confidentiality obligation when it comes to individual corporate tax attacks. So I cannot go into this particular case any further, nor can I go into the tax attacks of you as a person or the baker around the corner. That's really not neat and I won't. I can say, however, that in general, these practices, which some of you have referred to as 'constructions' and in the newspaper also sometimes 'funny constructions', often involve the application of normal legal rules, which apply to every company in the Netherlands. This applies both to the interest deduction and to the liquidation loss scheme. Those are just legal regulations. Companies that can make use of them also have a right to do so. The legislative proposals we are discussing today do not change that story. Mr Backer asked why the withholding tax on interest and royalty payments to the lowest tax jurisdiction could not enter into force before 2021. That sounds a long way away, but at the same time, when we peel it off, it's not that bad. What I am doing right now is shaping this tax. We had already tried to do this for the dividend tax, at least for this withholding tax on dividends. We would have come a long way with that. It is not necessary, in the end, because we retain the dividend tax. We are really going to try to use many of the elements we have learned from the legislation already for the legislation on interest and royalty withholding tax. That means that if I now make my pace and the normal procedures around internet consultation and so on, I can offer the bill on Prinsjesdag 2019. That's the fastest possible pace, I think. Subsequently, a new load according to the Parameter Letter will also take some time for execution. This whole new tax must be paid by the service and companies must be able to prepare for it. Then is actually the first possible date that that law can really go into 2021. Actually, that's not a delay. That's as fast as it gets. By the way, in the coalition agreement and the tables, we assumed that we could not do this until 2023, so we have actually accelerated it by two years. Then Mr Van Rij asked about the interest and royalty flows, and dividend flows by the way, of 22 billion that are being channeled by the Netherlands. We have a lot of letterbox companies and they have huge balances. They pay interest, royalties and dividends on these balance sheets. 196 billion are coming in and 199 billion are coming out of the Netherlands. The largest part of these flows goes to other EU countries or countries with simply high or normal tariffs, but there is a fair flow, namely 22 billion, which then ultimately amounts to tax havens and we want to tackle them. That's what the withholding tax is for. Mr Van Rij asks: if we were to do this on our own, how do we know that it will not happen around us? The thing is, the answer is that we obviously don't know that. So it could happen that these kinds of flows occur somewhere else. Then you can say: at least not in my backyard. Well, that's nice, but that would also be a little too easy. We are also really in the process of continuing this discussion around the world. A solution must therefore be found internationally. We are not only doing it at EU level. In fact, in the OECD context, we have been proposing a withholding tax on this type of interest and royalty payments for a number of years. Unfortunately, we have been stuck in the European debate for a number of years. One of the reasons why we are starting to do this ourselves is that the Member States are still deeply divided as to whether a minimum rate should be included in such a directive. My experience in Europe is that when there is such a discussion about minimum rates for European taxes, we are often stuck for a long time with all of us and sometimes it takes a shock to undo that. The fact is that we are now going to do this as the Netherlands and we are going to continue to promote to others that will help both zero measurement and the policy we are pursuing. I hope, then, that we will convince others as well. Mr Van Rij suggested the same thing. He asked whether this zero measurement would not be something for the EU. I'd like to say I'm about to go over that. I believe that this applies not only to the EU, but above all to the OECD. Not only do they actually have much better statistics and databases to do that, but they are also more countries. Look at the Inclusive Framework set up by the OECD for tax avoidance. In the meantime, 115 countries have committed themselves to monitoring and implementing the measures. What the OECD wants to do now is that we really welcome it through the corporate tax statistics dataset that they have used the country-by-country reporting data, one by one, and see if they can recreate the same for the whole OECD as we did for the Netherlands. Of course, then we get all these streams really in the picture. I expect a lot of that. At least I hope for a lot of it. The figures of the study will be published in November 2019 and then also in the 2020 BEPS review by the OECD. So we hope to take some real steps at the OECD next year. Mr Backer also asked about the country-by-country reporting. Does that lead to better fiscal transparency? The very short answer to that is: yes, sure. We really think that by sharing more specific information about where profits are falling, we can know much more and also have much better picture of those flows. When exactly that leads to a new directive or something from the Commission, I find it difficult. There is still a blocking minority of Member States within Europe who are holding back the adoption of the directive that regulates this, because they believe that it is a tax directive and not an accountancy directive. That's a very technical story. For the sake of clarity, we are not part of this blocking minority. We are taking part in this discussion because we think it is right that we should report this. Some of you I'm now almost at the end of this block of questions asked if I had any more ambitions. Well, yeah. We're not done yet, I'd say. This is a big deal. I've already indicated how excited I am about the first steps. Fortunately, a number of international organisations share that. But we are still coming up with a number of legislative proposals, including your Chamber. So I am thinking of the implementation of this mandate disclosure directive, which we talked about at the beginning of the evening, and ATAD 2. I always like to look at the hybrid mismatches, remember chairman? We are also going to tackle this, as well as the minimum capital regime, but also the conditional withholding tax on interest and royalties. So we're a long way from here. We are going to have a lot more fun with these guidelines, I hope. Moreover, I will continue to monitor everything I have already said in this Chamber about the effects of these tax avoidance measures. We now have one and we will continue to think about how we will keep it in another way. That's it, Mr. Chairman, as far as this block is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u6	How many cubes do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u7	Two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u8	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u9	And they're thinner, so I'm gonna try to get the hour you gave me for the answer. Then I come to the block of greening, not even the least block. However, Mr Ester was not impressed by the greening measures. I think I wrote that down. He asked if that's because there's a lot more coming. The answer is: well, we think what we are doing now is quite ambitious, but there is still a lot to be done. We talked about the flight tax and the CO minimum price. Those are really big and important shifts that are coming. In addition, however, there have been many proposals in the climate tables, and that is why I do not want to anticipate them now. They're only in the final phase of alignment now. I'd really get in the way of those tables if I already took a few things out of there that I'd really like to see. I am hopeful that something will come out of that and I will tell you something about its implementation. We have been watching all these tables from the outset when it comes to fiscal measures. You will understand that that was often a favorite button to turn on. I would like to say, however, that it must fit within the current system. You can't make a whole new tax. That's gotta fit a little bit. And if it fits, it is important that we also do the implementation of the execution test, so that we do not intend anything with all of us that ultimately shows that the Tax Administration or the citizen can make too little cheese out of it. Greening also raises the question of Mr Van de Ven's exact question about the flat-rate addition for the bicycle of the case and whether that is desirable. I had the feeling that he thought it was a slightly less desirable measure and a lot of hassle. In fact, this measure was intended precisely as I say in its direction through the Chairman..... to simplify the complexity of the existing regime. There is already an arrangement for the bicycle of the case, but it is very complex to keep track of. You even have to charge your maintenance costs to what was for business use and what for private use. We have said that we do like the bicycle control system, like the car control system of the case, but that you do need to make it a simpler system. Through this flat-rate addition, we believe that the administrative burden is considerably lower and much less complex than under the current regime. In addition, we wanted to be neutral in the budget. That is why we ended up with this 7%. Mr Van Strien loved all that, but asked if there are other countries where the bicycle of the case is treated like this. It will surprise him, but yes, in the countries around us too, such private benefits are depicted. In Belgium, for example, the idea is to encourage bicycle use with a specific valuation scheme for taxing the private use of the bicycle of the business. If you ask me, I wouldn't know the answer, but we took a quick look. Germany has published its intention to implement this scheme in such a way as to provide an incentive for cycling to work. You can find all kinds of things, but the countries around us have already thought that, if you can choose to have a small distance in terms of commuting, you might do well to do so by bike. Then there were questions about abolishing the bpm refund scheme. This has been discussed a little longer in the House of Representatives, quite a long time. It is a question of abolishing the taxi refund scheme in the transport sector for the regions, for example for people with disabilities, the elderly or children. Mr Schalk and Mrs Sent asked how the effects relate to each other. Let me first say that I appreciate the fact that the First Chamber is calling attention to these consequences. It was also an extensive part of the House of Representatives. I understand that, too, because we have these concerns ourselves. It concerns a vulnerable group in society, the transport of people with disabilities, the elderly and children. The aim of this measure is never to affect them. We are talking about taxi companies and not about transport to and from the hospital. Only for the hospital will be exempt. This is a van that may be used during the day for target transport and in the evening for something else. Can you calculate that tax differently? The sector itself thinks it can be emission-free by 2025. She even laid that down in the Zero Emission Administrative Agreement Target groups transport. The sector is more ambitious than the cabinet, because it thinks it can do this without emissions by 2025. That is because there are quite a lot of green alternatives available for vans. It's not like it's gonna be a little more expensive for the current vans. If you can now choose to buy a new van and you consciously opt for a non-environmentally friendly van, you will have a higher purchase price. By the way, it's still not about the people sitting in that van, it's really about the municipalities and the health insurance companies that have that van. We are therefore really looking forward to this, and we have examined this very carefully and without any effect in the price or in the offer for the transport of target groups. Often that offer is mandatory. However, we do understand that there is still a little uncertainty about it, so that we have decided to monitor that measure to see if it is true what we think. We have also said that, if it is not and there are unforeseen effects, we will inform the Chamber. That was the House of Representatives at the time, but I agree that I will also inform the House of Representatives about this. Mrs. Sent asked if this has any real environmental effects. I admit, of course, that this is a very limited group. There the environmental impact is not very high, but on balance I also think that if you want us to have a fleet of vehicles moving towards zero emission, which should actually apply to these taxi vans. Hence this measure. All in all, we think that this is a good measure that we should continue with. Then there was a question from Mrs Van Leeuwen about the youngtimers. She asked me if I was willing, for example, to see if a five-year-old electric car could be treated in addition to a youngtimer. In doing so, it assumes that this is always more advantageous on balance. We have been watching, but we think that may be disappointing. Because your proposal is that the addition of these cars should be more than 17% of the value in economic terms, but the question is whether this is more advantageous than 7% of the catalogue value. That may be so, but that really depends on the brand and the specific car and also on its value development. Anyway, we understand your thoughts. At the same time, I do not want to say that we are or are not going to do that. This also applies to what I just said: electric driving is really one of the key issues on the climate tables at the moment, where we are very much looking at how we can set up the car park so that we all make the right choices in it. This includes the use of electric cars and older electric cars. So, with your approval, I didn't want to anticipate it too much. But I get the idea. Mr Binnema asked whether the polluter pays principle does apply to the measures. Mrs Sent asked what the cabinet thinks of the CO tax on business, mentioned in De Nederlandsche Bank's report. Yes, I would like to answer Mr Binnema's question, that is for sure. The polluter pays principle is really a starting point when you talk about fiscal greening. The government is also taking various measures which greatly promote pollution. There is the waste tax, we are going to do the flying tax and we are going to organise the energy tax differently, so that the CO effect is better taken into account. At the same time, we also want to look at the impact of all these measures on the competitiveness of businesses, but also on burden sharing between citizens and businesses. The DNB report shows that the levy of €50 per tonne in addition to the existing taxes for some sectors is quite negative. There is also the risk of leaking effects, the so-called waterbed effect, which does not reduce global CO emissions, but does lose employment in the Netherlands. They say that's a choice in the end. Everyone puts that balance somewhere else. We believe that we can actually put part of that account in the hands of business, without compromising their competitive position immediately. But it is a subject on which we must continue to talk. In the government's juice appreciation of the proposal of the climate agreement at the beginning of December, therefore, the industrial table asked for options for the CO levy to be developed precisely for industry. Once again, this idea is logical, but we have also said here that it is at the table to further develop this idea and that we are waiting for the final steps before I tell you too much about it. Mr Backer also had a question about the status of the CO levy. For example, he asked whether it would be viable in Europe and whether other EU partners might be able to participate. It is absolutely true that the more countries are involved, the more effective the measure is in Europe. We all know that. We are really trying to get other countries to actively move towards the direct price of CO. The Netherlands signed a declaration at the climate summit in Poland yesterday, including France, Denmark and the UK, which agreed to jointly use CO pricing to achieve the Paris targets. In the context of the climate agreement, a CO levy is also being developed in industry, which I have just said as a stick behind the door for achieving the climate objectives. So a number of other European countries also see it. It is not that I say that next year we will be out all over Europe, but we are certainly not the only ones. Mrs Sent asked about the position of tenants with regard to the energy tax slides, one of the measures I mentioned. In a way, the low taxation of electricity is opposed to the increase in the high taxation of natural gas. The proceeds are collected with a drawer and are used to reduce taxes on labour and profits. This is in line with the principles of government policy. This also applies to tenants, because it applies to everyone. As of 2019, the landlord levy will be reduced by a tax reduction for the sustainability of rental homes, as you know, in order to stimulate energy-saving measures for tenants. In addition, the Cabinet, together with the parties involved in the climate agreement, is looking at the further possibilities of achieving CO reduction in the built environment. That is one of the tables, and that is where this policy and the slide within the energy tax are high on the agenda. I know that it is still under discussion today. Then Mr Binnema follows. I'm almost at the end of this block, Mr. Chairman. I haven't seen any non-verbal communication yet, so I'm just saying this to myself. Mr Binnema had doubts about the success of the climate agreement. He asked about plan B of the cabinet, in case it all didn't work out. He asked what measures we would take ourselves. In fact, I do not share Mr Binnema's scepticism at all on that outcome of the climate agreement. We still have the feeling that all parties at the tables want a lot of commitment and that they have the courage to come up with socially supported measures. That is, of course, extremely difficult, because at those tables there are all the ends of the spectrum. Of course, the parties will sometimes say: if I have to, I no longer have to go on. But so far, these tables have always been able to come up with proposals that we can do with. I know it's short notice. At the same time, however, the cabinet's commitment is still merely to reach a negotiated agreement before Christmas which can be passed on by the planning agencies. Talking about plan B is really not on the table at the moment. A further question from Mr Van Strien on the Tesla. This too was not entirely a question, but rather a reasoning from him. He said: realize that 83% of electricity comes from coal and gas and that Tesla raises an additional electricity demand. In fact, this is what we are chasing coal and lignite production with. I would like to thank Mr Van Strien very much for asking this question, because it will enable me to correct a frequently quoted misconception. It is true, of course, that the electricity used does not only come from renewable sources, such as wind and sun, but more and more. In addition, TNO has carried out research into the direct and indirect emissions of electric passenger cars. TNO concluded that an electric car per kilometer has lower CO emissions over its lifetime than an average petrol or diesel car. So I didn't make that up, but TNO calculated that. In addition, electric cars do not emit fine dust and nitrogen oxide, not least from the CO. They also cause less noise. For these reasons too, electric cars are better for climate and air quality than conventional cars. That is precisely why we want such a large electrical fleet. Moreover, of course, we simply want to increase the share of renewable energy further, so that 83% will be reduced even further. Then there is an interesting question from Mr Backer about the circular economy. He almost closed us to the role of banner carrier of that renewal. I am always in favour of us becoming banners in Europe of such innovative ideas. In my tax greening letter I also give a number of incentives to the circular economy theme. It's important. One of the elements that we do not have to discuss at the moment is the input and output load. That point has been raised for a while. If you know that our entire economy will look different, there must also be a tax system that will look different. We know that already. This also depends on whether, for example, you should stop going to raw materials. That has already been mentioned by Mr Sent as something you should take seriously. I simply think it is important that we continue to study such incentives. The circular economy is an important part of this. If taxation can give good market incentives on this issue, we will not fail to do so. But for the time being, we're really still in the research phase where we're looking into whether we can do something with that. Mr Backer referred to the publication entitled New era New Plan. This is essentially about the tax measures that would be necessary or which help to achieve a tax shift from labour to, for example, consumption or the use of natural resources. I recognise that fiscal measures can play a role in this. It is not the case that we already have 20 measures in place for this, but I will say to him that in our search for good tax ideas, we are also giving this report a place in our thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u10	One interruption, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u11	An important interruption, Mr. Chairman, because it's Mrs. Sent and Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u12	Did I just say it wrong again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u13	You said it wrong again, but I thought: I will not interrupt, otherwise the hilarity will increase again. I have to say, we've all been enjoying ourselves here. You were so busy...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u14	I didn't realize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u15	You didn't realize, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u16	I always get it when others make that mistake. That's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u17	But it's Mrs. Sent and Mr. Ester. And they're not married at some dark meeting either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u18	I'm gonna say it out loud tonight: 20 rules of punishment before I go to sleep, hoping I'll never do it wrong again. I would like to thank Mr Backer for his technical comment. I'll get on with it. Mr Ten Hoeve (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject. In fact, he has already heard in my previous answers that I fully agree with him: that's how it should be, that's the starting point in building tax systems; especially when it comes to externalitions, you don't do it on your own, but you do it with as many countries as possible. For us, the European countries are the logical first group of countries we are looking at, although we really want to try to regulate a number of things in the OECD context. The Ten Hoeve also asked me if I could go a little further on the taxation of meat. It was actually the slaughter tax. As regards the taxation of meat, I said earlier: I understand it very well, but it is extremely difficult to define that technically. This has also been looked at in the past. In the Lower House the Party for the Animals then came up with the idea of a slaughter tax. My answer to that has just been quoted, so I do not have to do it again. Mrs Van Leeuwen was right about that. But here's what I'm gonna say. In the search for such a tax adjustment this new idea was better, but I want to be clear that as a cabinet we do not have any active plans to introduce this slaughter tax. It was more of a research tip, a delineation tip towards Mr. Van Raan of the Party for Animals. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u19	One question, Mr. Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u20	Maybe I was not paying attention, but I asked a specific question about this aspect of fiscal greening. In our view, can the imbalance between the burden on citizens and the burden on business, and in particular the burden arising from the reversal or reduction of the energy tax reduction, be repaired, in the form of a novelle? I haven't heard from the Secretary of State about that. Am I to conclude that the answer to that question is "no"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u22	That's pretty obvious. Last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u23	That was the short answer. I come to the last block, which I call'revision of the system, implementation and citizen perspective'. I'm also smuggling the other block into this block, so I only have one block left. I shall begin with the various questions raised by Mr Ester, Mr Backer, Mr Van Rij and Mrs Sent on the revision of the tax system. With this plan, the cabinet puts forward a rather ambitious package. Mr Van Rij also described this. It's not like we're doing nothing. They are not just legislative proposals, but they are really significant adjustments to things that were long overdue: we are reducing the burden on labour, we are working on the marginal pressure on middle incomes that has to go down, we are tackling tax avoidance, we want a location climate that is better than in the past and we are continuing to green up. In short, we are really doing a lot. At the same time, I understand that, despite this comprehensive package, a system is never finished. There's always reason to think if it can't be a little better. Moreover, apart from the fact that we have been able to find improvements, the tax system is always subject to social change. What are the political wishes? What international developments are there? A system, however well, ages naturally over a number of years. That's why there's a real need to do a hell of a procedure every now and then. Anyone who has said that we should also look at complexity reduction and make it less opaque when preparing this procedure, I agree with that. I really think that if you start with a beautiful clean system with few deductions, special arrangements or exceptions, it will become complicated if you let politics and society get over it for a few years. We know that. Every once in a while, it just takes a big cleaning operation. Some of this is happening in this Tax Plan and in our cabinet plans, but some of it must also be done in a forthcoming cabinet. In the meantime, I have promised in the Lower House to improve the tax system through building blocks, so that they can ultimately act as ideas for a new cabinet and for a greater adjustment. It's not like no matter what happens, I don't do anything anymore and we're pretty much done. Important adjustments will be made. There is still plenty to tell about the evaluation of Eigen Huis. And Mrs. Sent asked about box 3. A lot has been said about that, and that keeps the moods busy. I understand that, too. And if you're talking about box 3, at the same time, subjects like: how to deal with power and power inequality in a broad sense? This also applies to box 2 and perhaps to all boxes. So there is still a lot of good to do in the field of taxation. We are also going to look at what previous committees, such as the Dijkhuizen Committee, have done, but also other committees, such as the Van Weeghel Committee. They had good elements that we haven't done anything with yet. So there's really a lot to do. We're gonna study what's already there and see what we can add. Is that supposed to be on a committee? But not on a new committee. In particular, should we start to implement what all these earlier committees have recommended? Then we're really thinking about it. I told the Chamber that I was going to put that in the picture and come up with some kind of procedural proposal at the beginning of next year on how best to do this. It's important to keep looking for improvements. And again, the capacity of the Tax Administration to change is always an important condition for me. We have to be able to handle it. Then there was a question about the local tax area. Mrs. Sent asked what the situation was. There are no plans in the coalition agreement in this area, so here we are. I do not have those intentions either, but I do not rule out the fact that it is a subject we can talk about in order, if necessary, to include in the exploration for a new period. At the moment, however, there are no ambitions from the cabinet. Then there's the civilian perspective. Mr Ester and Mrs Sent had questions about this. Mr Ester asked what lessons the cabinet learned from the criticism of the Council of State that the government's drive for action was so intense that the citizen's perspective was now somewhat troubling. This also gives me the opportunity to respond immediately to a commitment I made to Mrs Sent on 5 June to inform her in writing. I hope she will agree that I am now doing it orally on how the power test developed by the WRR is applied when amending tax legislation. I hadn't done that yet. Well, the Cabinet therefore considers it important that the citizen's perspective is given sufficient attention in the drafting of legislation and regulations. This citizen perspective is therefore addressed in several ways. For example, the cabinet has now completed an integral balancing framework for policy and regulation. In addition, the planned policy, to be developed in legislation and regulation, will now be subject to a prior assessment of whether the scheme is effective for citizens. For these laws and regulations, the cabinet not only reflects the impact of the administrative burden of regulation on businesses and citizens, but also this year, focus groups with citizens have been organised to assess policy in advance and to adapt communication to it. So before we come up with legislation, we're not just going to test the official administrative burden at first. What does this mean for people, how long are they going to do? But we'll explain. What if we wrote it down like this, is the citizen or the company going to do what we expect? That is going very well and we are learning how to communicate. We have now learned that the Tax Administration must reach citizens through as many different channels as possible. We also need to look at the way in which the various citizens and taxpayers experience themselves. Only then will we find that the measures really do what we want. The modernisation of regulation and the reduction of regulatory burden for citizens and businesses is an extremely important ambition of the cabinet. That goes for me, too. So we also believe that the laws and regulations we make should be doable, in the words of Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u24	One interruption, Mrs. Sent. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u25	Short, Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State to what extent he has been inspired by the power test in the Tax Plan package before us. I do not mean, therefore, in general terms, as set out in the letter from the Government of 29 June, but in the package before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u26	At least with this package we do the internet consultations. So we are already asking for citizens and businesses to respond to the legislative proposals that we intend to put forward. Besides, we're getting quite a lot back. The use of those focus groups is really new. In a number of measures that we are now proposing, we have begun to do so. Think of the flight tax. We have also tested extensively: is it understood, what about it? In all honesty, I do not think we have done much of these tests for the current legislative package. We want to do it from now on. But if that's different, I'll come back to that in the second term. Mr Ester said that there are nine legislative proposals, which is not nauseous. Mr Van de Ven also said that it is a lot we are going to do. To what extent can the Tax Administration implement and enforce these new system adjustments and tax measures? Those were the combined questions of both gentlemen. Those questions are relevant and important. It is precisely the questions we have intended to ask each time we propose legislation. When entering into the government agreement, the Tax Administration has already taken a short execution test called a hand-weighted load test, as it is well said. But when we submitted the legislative proposal, we made a lot of separate sheets for all the measures that were taken, in which an implementation test was carried out. I think they're public, too. These implementation tests are now seen not only on the measures themselves, but also on the accumulation of measures. So we also take into account that if you put ten measures in one tax resource and you put all ten together, it might still be difficult. That accumulation is also new, but it is important that they continue to do so. For all the legislation we propose, we have done so. The same is true of the energy transition. Mr Ester asked about that. In the end, all the laws that arrive must be subjected to the same test. The various proposals at the climate agreement tables are already being worked out actively from the moment they are put forward. Do they even fit within our implementation systems? And if they're going to be real proposals, there's gonna be another official test. Mr Van Rij was looking forward to our debate on 29 January. He asked me if I could give my top three to the Chamber. Listing lists is always dangerous, because I'm sure I'll name one that someone doesn't hope for. But it's not that hard to call a top three. In our program Refresh Control we have said in what way we want to shape that change approach.. to use an ugly word............................................................................................................................................................................................................... We do this in three areas. First of all, staff. We need enough capacity to do it. It must be sufficiently qualified. There must be no mismatch. That's a corner one. Corner two is all that has to do with ICT or the application landscape of the service. That is also a horrible word, I realize, but the point is that we have a lot of different programmes that are all running side by side. They're not built under architecture, so sometimes they have trouble talking to each other. We all want to change that, and we need to change that because the Tax Administration wants to make a lot of use of these ICT improvements in the future. If you look back one or two years, you can see that ICT has been an obstacle, especially sometimes, although that is not entirely true, because there are also positive examples. The second priority is to look around ICT. The third point, certainly not unimportant, is that we must be able to steer all these objectives properly. That's why you need management information. In many systems at the IRS you can see that there aren't any meters on it, that's what I call disrespectful. Suppose someone asks how long an attack takes or how many attacks come in, à la a cookie factory, although that is a dangerous example in the Tax Office. If you want to see the production, we simply don't have any meters in many areas. I recently outlined exactly what is happening with regard to the handling of objections. We talked about this, but never by means of taxation. The cause of a problem that does not resolve your objections in good time can be very different by means. We're gonna talk about that on January 29th. For that, you have to get a good look at that first. That's why we're lighting up all those tiles. We're putting a lamp on that right now. Unfortunately, under a tile we also sometimes find a scene that is less beautiful, but that is necessary to see how we have to steer in order to move forward. That's what we're doing on purpose. There's a lot of focus on management information, ICT and staff. That's my top three. As a result, Mr Ester asked whether the Tax Administration could handle the new digital platform economy. That's important, too. The platform economy is coming at us, whether we like it or not. We have also included in the 2019 Annual Plan a new product from the Tax Administration that I can recommend you specifically a paragraph about the digital economy. We have said that this is a strategic development and a challenge for the Tax Administration, but in some parts it may also help. These new changes open up opportunities from a fiscal perspective but also challenges. We are looking for what potential compliance deficits are, so how in the digital economy the taxis is still too fast and what we can think of. We do not do that alone, that is also very important to say. We are working very actively with our services colleagues within the EU and the OECD to seek cooperation on these cross-border issues at the front rather than afterwards. In the same block, I now come to the sub-paragraph and we are almost there. Mr Van de Ven asked the cabinet to reflect on the relationship between the transitional right when introducing new tax measures and the reliability of the government. I would like to say that, of course, we attach great importance to the reliability of the government and to the legislation that comes from us. For the sake of public support, it is also extremely important for us to be predictable and to be able to lay down stable legislation. That does not alter the fact that there is sometimes another law envisaged. There is a careful balancing procedure between the government and the States-General to discuss this. A number of measures in the coalition agreement have been dealt with fairly strictly, as Mr Van de Ven also knows. In the review package, a number of measures, such as the 30% measure, which was also mentioned here today, were decided to take a transitional measure. In a way, that also applied a bit to dga. We have also taken another measure for depreciation of buildings. In the end, there's a trade-off that you still think is reasonable. It is not the case that the legislator, by definition, has a kind of new policy and that we never seek transitional arrangements, because we have done so actively in a number of laws. Then I'll join the KOR. It has been asked whether the European derogation for the VAT exemption related to turnover for small entrepreneurs was already in place. I think that is what Mr Ester asked for. The answer is that there is more insight into that. Just a week ago, on 4 December 2018, the Council of the European Union granted the requested authorisation to the Netherlands for the amount of annual turnover. That authorisation shall now apply from 1 January 2020. That is also the date on which the new small business scheme will apply. Actually, this is a confirmation. We were hoping this would work out. Then there is Mrs Sent's question about gambling tax. She asked: why do you not actually choose to tax players, in addition to the tax obligations for the providers of the land-based sports betting? First of all, I am pleased that Mrs Sent also agrees with the tax liability of the providers of the national sports betting. If, in addition to this, we were to tax the players, this would only lead to double taxation. In addition, this double taxation, which is not only undesirable from a fiscal point of view, would make it much more attractive for players to participate in illegal national sports betting. We're a little afraid of that. We have a whole channeling policy on sports. If you make the legal offer so expensive that people dive into illegality, and I think you do, by a double charge, maybe you'll put the horse behind the cart a little bit. Mr Schalk asked why a rate of 29% was chosen, because it is lower than the income tax on wages. That is, of course, true, and I also understand Mr Schalk's thinking to increase the pressure on gambling. It is actually the same kind of story as we had in the case of double taxation: the importance of channeling must be taken into account when setting the rate. When it gets too expensive and there's actually too much tax on gambling, it can become too attractive for players to get involved in a lot of illegal gambling. That's what we're really afraid of, and we really don't want that. That channeling policy, including the one on 29%, has been considered quite a long time. Not only with the sector, but also in a broad sense, we discussed this with each other. This is, in the end, the level where we end up, I think, as a level at which the policy of channeling is not compromised and yet taxes are paid properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u27	One interruption, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u28	A very brief one, Madam President. It would be a very strange argument that, if something could lead to misuse or abuse, we would say: well, we will not make it too high. We don't do that with a lot of other taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u29	That's what we do with other taxes. For example, if we increase the excise duty on drinks, cigarettes or other things, we always take into account the fact that this increase cannot go too fast. The excise duty on cigarettes is a very concrete example of this. We also had a discussion about this in the prevention agreement. We all wish our children would never smoke as much as we ever did. Then you need to step in. Then it's about offer, but it's also about price. But if you put the price up too hard and too fast, the idea of channeling is exactly the same here, people just go across the border and there comes parallel imports. That actually applies to a lot more taxes. There's a lot to tell from tax theory. We have all kinds of curves to visualize this. It is therefore not the case that it only applies to this tax. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u30	I admire how quickly you have done that, and I am also very grateful to the Members of Parliament because they have hardly interrupted. Because that's the end of something. It is important in itself, but everyone still has a second term. That second term is about to begin. The Minister of Education will be the first to reply on the part of the government. Then, as far as I'm concerned, she apologized. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer to the questions. Mr. Chairman. In the New Testament, Revelation 20, it speaks of a millennial empire. Many people at the time understood this as if from the year 1000 the world would perish. Those were the so-called chiliasts. Even the Pope of that time, Sylvester II, predicted the end of time. Sylvester is still the name of the last day of the year in German.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u32	Old and new.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u33	Even then, huge sums were donated, then to the church, in exchange for souls. The turn of the year was not at that time on December 31, but at Easter. When Easter of the year 1000 was over, spring broke and nothing else happened, people wanted their money and their goods back. Of course, that didn't happen. The church had one of the most profitable years ever. My group is now wondering whether the government and other climate alarmists might be able to indicate more precisely when the world is going to end this time, so that we know a little more when new and higher climate taxes will come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u34	You wanted to intervene, Mr. Schalk? You may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u35	I will be very brief, Madam President. This explanation of Revelation 20 I have never heard of my life. I am very curious to know where Mr Van Strien found it. The thousand-year-old empire was precisely the wonderfully peaceful empire. Well, that's different from what you're putting it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u36	It was even so that farmers stopped working the land, because after the year 1000 the end of time would be. There would be a new millennial empire, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u37	There was once an MP here, Jan Glastra van Loon of D66. He used to say, "You can see the same things differently." I think that is also the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u38	Okay. My question remains complete. As far as the expat scheme is concerned, the unspecified nature of this scheme means that, above all, very high salaries can get tax rebates of up to millions. My group finds this incomprehensible. The last point I would like to make concerns the marginal tax burden. I refer to page 14 of the sheets we had at the technical briefing. It's a bizarre graph with very high peaks in it. I don't understand why that line can't be a gradual ascending line up to an agreed maximum. This prevents people from suddenly having to pay back hundreds of euros, especially in the category of working poor, because their income exceeds a certain limit. I just wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for the detailed and very quick answer to our first-term questions. I would add my admiration for his officials, who have had to answer hundreds of questions from us and colleagues across the street in an extremely short time. Chapeau! The Christian Union Group can live well with this first own Tax Plan of this cabinet. Purchasing power is increasing and differences are somewhat contained. For companies there is also relief and tax avoidance is being seriously addressed. The latter is definitely a trend break. The shift from labour to taxation of consumption, even for the much-needed greening, has our strong support. However, many fiscal buttons are being twisted at the same time and the tax passage of the energy transition is still to come. It is a good thing that the Minister made the commitment he, I believe, made on the other side of the House to ensure that the income effects of the energy transition, in particular for lower incomes, are fully taken into account. This issue will undoubtedly dominate the political debate in the coming period. My group is concerned about whether the Tax Administration can handle all this, but we will be discussing this separately at the end of next month. Volunteers form the cement of society, the social capital of the Netherlands. Volunteers are the cornerstone of the participatory society. This cabinet offers an increase in the unpaid voluntary allowance, which has not been adjusted since 2006. This increase is an excellent measure. My group's request to index the remuneration was somewhat challenged by the Secretary of State. I am therefore tabling a motion to index this new unpaid fee as of 1 January 2020, because it sends an important signal. The President shall: Mr Ester, Mr Van Rij, Mr Sent, Mr Binnema, Mr Köhler, Mr Schalk, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Baay-Timmerman and Mr Van de Ven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas volunteers play an essential role in society;]] [[noting that the unpaid voluntary allowance has not been adjusted since 1 January 2006;]] [[Whereas the unpaid voluntary allowance will be extended from 1 January 2019 to a maximum of €170 per month and €1,700 per calendar year;]] [[calls on the Government to index the maximum unpaid voluntary allowance annually as from 1 January 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for the clear and swift answer to our questions. Compliments for official support are certainly in place. Not only for the stakes today, but also for the technical briefing in which they were present in large numbers on Monday evening. Mr. Chairman. It rains missed opportunities in the current Tax Plan package. Although a large number of buttons are turned, the promised revision of the machine is omitted. Neither efficiency nor manageability are increasing. The reduction in the burden for citizens leaves €2 per person per year, and it is precisely the vulnerable who make the least progress: the lowest incomes, the tenants, benefit recipients and people in the disease law. I'd like to walk through the answers of the Secretary of State and the Minister to our questions. For example, we have told the Secretary of State that the machine is in need of a thorough review. From his answer, I understand that he agrees with me. He has promised the House of Representatives to come up with building blocks, but as far as the PvdA is concerned it is too little, too late. Because these building blocks are already there, in the form of opinions from the Van Weeghel and Van Dijkhuizen committee, and opinions from the General Court of Auditors. Mr. Chairman. We have drawn attention to the large difference between the initial estimate of the tax revenue in the Millions note and the final realised income. We are pleased that the Ministry takes into account the recommendations of the Visitation Committee's assessment of tax and premium receipts, because international comparisons show that the Netherlands has recorded the biggest prediction error. According to a study by the Central Planning Bureau, the Innovation Box is a subsidy for profitable companies with past innovations; costs: 1.7 billion euros. I am pleased that the Secretary of State keeps the option of adapting the Innovation Box open. I understand that he wants to base himself on a careful evaluation. I am sorry that this evaluation will not take place until 2022. So in the meantime, we will keep our finger on the pulse and, where necessary, draw attention to the findings of the Central Planning Bureau on the Innovation Box. Mr. Chairman. In terms of de-levelling, we have drawn particular attention to the unacceptable loss of income for people in the disease law. We really cannot support a decline of an average of €900 for people in the disease law. In our view, the impact of the current increase in the low VAT rate on the different income groups is not sufficiently known. The CBS study dates from 2013 and the analysis of the CPB from 2014. That analysis examines precisely the advantages of a uniform rate and not the effects of an increase in the low rate. That's why I have a motion. The President shall: Mr Sent, Mr Binnema, Mr Köhler, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the impact of VAT on daily messages was last examined by the CBS in 2013 and by the CPB in 2014;]] [[noting that the CPB's investigation clearly shows that VAT pressure is decreasing as income increases;]] [[considers that there is insufficient knowledge of the impact of the increase in VAT on different income groups;]] [[calls on the Government to assess the impact of the present increase in VAT on different income groups prior to the next Millions Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u44	The motion is sufficiently signed and is therefore part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u45	I'm completely stunned. The motion is indeed sufficiently signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the greening measures. We have suggested one robust and effective CO charge and asked for attention to be paid to the position of tenants and to the potential cost increase of the transport of care. We welcome the State Secretary's commitment to monitor the effects of the abolition of the BPM refund scheme on the costs of the transport of care and to share the findings with this Chamber. We would like to continue talking to the Secretary of State about a robust and effective CO levy and about the position of tenants in energy saving measures. Mr. Chairman. The logic of the relationship between the Gambling Tax Act and the Remote Gambling Act is and remains confusing. I haven't heard from the Secretary of State about that. I would ask him to deal with this in the second term. My group can count on the support of replacing the tax deduction of expenditure on monuments with a subsidy scheme. We thank the Minister for the additional details she has given on the subsidy scheme. Mr. Chairman. We also support tax avoidance measures, but we are concerned about unintended potential side effects on investment in new construction and sustainability. That is why we have co-signed the motion for a resolution and we expect mitigation measures if these effects are actually to take place. We have missed an appreciation of this motion by the Secretary of State and look forward to it in second term. Mr. Chairman. There are many Daniel Blake's by Herman Tjeenk Willink in the Netherlands. They also run counter to the limited capacity of tax legislation. The Secretary of State has not been able to convince me that the commitment in the Cabinet letter of 29 July last year was also followed up on this package. In doing so, he has not reassured me sufficiently that this will happen in the next package. That is why I have a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u47	I'm making a factual observation. I've also listened to the Secretary of State. He said: I cannot guarantee that I have been able to do this anywhere in the full package. That's different from what you're saying right now. I think it's premature to say that it won't happen with the next plans either. Those are two points that stand out for me. They don't quite support your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u48	I only received a very brief reply from the Secretary of State when I asked him to what extent he was inspired in the design of this package by the power test. In doing so, he referred to the internet consultation and to a number of other matters that have taken place. I do not think that is entirely in line with the commitment made in the cabinet letter of 29 June last. If I'm wrong at this point, I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. If he is prepared to provide the tax package that will reach us next year with a performance test, then my motion is superfluous. I'd like to have her read to me. If she's unnecessary, the Secretary of State will make me very happy. The President shall: Mr Sent, Mr Binnema, Mr Ester, Mr Köhler and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Tax Plan package usually covers a large number of measures;]] [[Whereas the Scientific Council for Government Policy (WRR) in its report "Knowing is Not Doing" states that people should not only know the law, but should also be able to do it;]] [[Considering that in its letter of 29 June last year, in response to the WRR report, the government intends to work towards a comprehensive implementation of the Dominion Review in the long term;]] [[Whereas the performance test is particularly relevant for the Tax Plan package;]] [[calls on the government to provide the Tax Plan package with a separate capacity test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u49	The motion is sufficiently signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u50	The chairman is not doing well, because I have again not reported that the motion is sufficiently signed. That is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said, if the motion is unnecessary, the Secretary of State will make me happy. Of course, we're not asking for thick reports. In the end, it must also be feasible for the Ministry. I can understand that. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The present package is disappointing. In my group's view, it is reprehensible for the cabinet to spend EUR 6.4 billion on public money without carrying out a fundamental tax reform. Because of our great concerns about the efficiency, manageability and justice of the package before us, my group will be particularly careful about its voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his response to all of us' questions, including those put on behalf of the VVD. I can say that I have experienced the last three weeks, the period since the technical briefing, as hurdles. But I can't quite keep up with the pace the Secretary of State has shown. Many thanks for the enlightening answers to the questions. As a group, we have two questions of a rather technical nature. This debate is less suitable for answering these two questions, which do have a practical interest. We therefore ask the Secretary of State to send a response to these questions before the vote on the legislative proposals before the vote on them, which will take place next week. I will read out the questions so that they are at least part of the Chambers. The members of the VVD Group note that their question on the scope of the term "financial enterprise" has not yet been fully answered. They once again ask the State Secretary to state whether only those companies are covered by the term "financial enterprise" which is actually subject to the European supervisory framework. If this concept were to be interpreted so restrictively, it would mean that, for example, US, Chinese or Australian financial institutions that do not have a European licence because they are not active on the European market could not qualify for this qualification. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are wondering whether this is indeed the intention. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The second question concerns his answer, clear and concrete, to our question about the definition of interest rates in the application of the proposed Article 15b of the Corporate Tax Act. However, according to the VVD members, one aspect of this response has been neglected, namely the extent to which the tax valuation system chosen by the taxpayer is relevant to the balance and interest income and interest charges. My group's question is whether or not it should be associated with the interest income to be taken into account in a given year for the application of 15b to the tax valuation. Or should an amortisation approach be used to calculate the annual interest income for the purposes of Article 15b be mandatory? Those were the two technical questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van de Ven. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answer on the Monument Law. We appreciated that very much. The various explanations and commitments are also included. We have clearly understood that the initial savings of 25 million from a time ago have been cancelled and that the budget for private owners remains unchanged. We have also heard the commitment regarding the other legal forms. I also mention the commitment that this law will be reviewed by 2020. Perhaps the Minister still wishes to undertake to send that evaluation to this Chamber in due course. And then there is the commitment to find a solution in terms of further compensation related to the lapsed deduction for non-monumental investigations. These commitments have removed most of the concerns of my group, but there is still one concern. It's about legal certainty for people in the country who want to know if they can get a grant before they spend the money and before they make the investment. The Minister has clearly indicated that the amended law directly carries out the assessment on the basis of the guidance. That is very clear and it is also an improvement, my group believes. But it does happen afterwards. An owner wishing to obtain advance security may assess whether something is eligible on the basis of the guidance. That is also a step in the right direction, my group believes. But that still doesn't give us any certainty. Someone can also contact the RCE, says the Minister, and ask for advice. That's nice, too, but it doesn't give us any certainty yet. Getting the advance security is actually not yet foreseen. My group believes that this is important, given all the noises we have heard about this, including from the country. In fact, my group sees no reason not to include in the new scheme that, at least above the previously discussed limit of €70,000 eligible costs, i.e. €25,000 grant, prior to carrying out the work, an assessment of the Cultural Heritage Agency can be obtained by the interested party which eligible costs are eligible under the guidance. It is therefore binding and we are happy to table a motion for a resolution to that effect. The President shall: Mr Bruijn, Mr Backer, Mr Van Rij, Mr Ester, Mr Binnema, Mr Sent and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed conversion of the tax deduction for maintenance of national monuments into a subsidy scheme may give the impression that owners are less sure that their activities are eligible for subsidy;]] [[Whereas, especially in the case of large investments, there is a need for security of subsidy;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the new scheme that, in the event of an intervention above €70,000 in one year, owners may obtain an assessment of eligible costs prior to the execution of the work, as set out in the Guide,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34556-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I will try not to add to the confusion and just start by thanking for the answers we have received, comprehensively and comprehensively. For a moment I thought something was forgotten about the gambling tax, but even in that I was helped out of the confusion by the Secretary of State. Thank you for that. I had a motion prepared, but I'm not filing it at all. That is not necessary at all, because I have received a very clear, crystal clear commitment from the Secretary of State on the options I have asked about marginal pressure for one and two earners. It was indeed very clear, namely that he wanted to explore, together with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, how the exorbitant woman, that is a word of mine, could be normalized marginal pressure in low incomes, explicitly involving the position of one and two earners. I think it is very nice that he is doing this together with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, also because, when he was still called Wouter Koolmees and was in the Lower House, he and Elbert Dijkgraaf were looking for a life-form neutral tax system. I therefore assume that this Minister will raise this issue during the search for options. The Secretary of State has indicated that this will be with us before the summer. I thank him very much for that. He has also indicated that there will be recurring tables around the marginal pressure every year, so that we can monitor them properly. Thank you again for this comprehensive answer. I also believe that Mrs Van Engelshoven owes me an answer, or at least a few words about the state monuments tax measure. I have to say quite frankly that my group is not quite convinced that converting the tax deduction into a subsidy deduction is just as secure, so we will think about that. Mr. Chairman. I just said I didn't want to add to the confusion. I started this morning, just before noon, with a bit of confusion. Just now there was also a very small bit of confusion about Revelation 20. I think everyone who knows that chapter knows that that is a very moving chapter, also about judgment. I know there are different ways of thinking about it, but I did not know Mr Van Strien's explanation. What I am sure is that we are living at this moment in a time that everyone knows is advent and that is crystal clear: that is peace on earth. That is what I wish the Secretary of State, the Minister and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u57	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I would also like to thank the two directors for their comprehensive response and for the necessary official support. In this second period, I should like to raise three issues. I will not go into any more details about the state tax measures, because we have clearly answered the questions on this subject. The three themes are, firstly, the distribution between citizens and businesses, particularly in relation to climate change measures and fiscal greening, secondly, the locational environment and, thirdly, tax avoidance. As far as the first is concerned, once again, looking at measures amounting to around 600 million, which almost entirely or more than half end up with citizens and increase their burden, there is a imbalance between the burden on citizens and that on business. In the first instance, I called on the Secretary of State to deal with this at novelle, in line with what we in the House of Representatives advocated through Bart Snels' amendment. It appears that there is no willingness to do so. As far as we are concerned, however, the issue remains intact, especially in view of the concerns expressed in recent weeks by parties from the left to the right about climate justice, about the burden on citizens, and precisely the fact that carrying these burdens is related to the acceptance of climate goals. That is why we are tabling a motion. It maintains the objective of maintaining the reduction contained in the proposal to reduce the energy tax, i.e. not to allow that reduction to continue, and to ask the government to consider what compensatory measures could be taken in the year 2019. The President shall: Mr Binnema, Mr Köhler, Mr Sent, Mr Van Leeuwen and Mr Strik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need for a comprehensive set of measures to achieve a 49% reduction in emissions by 2030, for which considerable efforts are required from both citizens and businesses;]] [[Whereas support in society for addressing the climate issue is crucial;]] [[Whereas there are concerns that climate measures will impose a disproportionate burden on citizens;]] [[noting that the measure to reduce the energy tax reduction is almost entirely borne by citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate for the increase in the burden caused by this measure in 2019 and to inform the Court of Justice by the Spring Note at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35029-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u59	Thank you. Another response to the reply of the Secretary of State on the climate agreement. It is perhaps faint to say that Mr Koolmees too has for a very long time been sending out an extraordinary amount of optimism about achieving the pension agreement. Especially in view of the statements made by the President of VNO-NCW and in the light of the reports from VNO-NCW and LTO, we in the Netherlands should perhaps be a little less ambitious. Is that 49% necessary by 2030? Before that, we heard already worried noises from nature and environmental organisations, just from the other side. There was also Mr De Boer's appeal to use Christmas as a moment of rest and to continue speaking in January, i.e. to call into question the date of 21 December. I think it would be wise to take other scenarios into account at least if these climate tables did not reveal what is really necessary to achieve the objectives. With this in mind, I would ask the President to vote next week on the motion tabled by my group chairman at the General Reviews, which has received the letter "E." The motion was then stopped because the Prime Minister said it was premature and he wanted to wait and see what came out of those tables. The cabinet agreed with the principles of proportional distribution between citizens and between citizens and businesses, but asked to wait. I assume the text is in your possession. I don't have it with me right now, but it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u60	The text is in our possession. We've taken note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u61	Excellent, thank you. The second point concerns the locational climate. I note with the Secretary of State that for an average you must also have countries above that average. I'm just noticing that we have three groups. A number of countries above 25%, such as Belgium, Germany and France. The Netherlands was also a bit in that corner, but is now in the middle group between 15% and 25%. And there's the group below 15%. Precisely because we see that some other countries have already taken measures to reduce those rates, I think there is reason to worry about the race to the bottom mentioned. Finally, the issue of tax avoidance. The Secretary of State replied to the 9% rate that was chosen there. He said that it could not be much higher than that at European level. Our information is that, for example, a country like Italy uses 40%. I'd like some clarification on that. And perhaps a more general question, because we find that other countries do not exempt CFCs with essential economic activities and substance, rather than specifically filling in them as an open standard. To what extent is there consultation and coordination between these countries on how this directive is to be implemented? Thank you for this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u63	Mr President, is it allowed to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u64	Yes, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u65	In my first term, I tried to put forward some more far-reaching ideas on building blocks for a new system. I hear from Mr Binnema the classic objections and also some pessimism. The climate talks are going to fail and a number of things, such as compensation for income decline. Would the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance be willing and interested to consider a more fundamental change in the system? I have not heard from Mr Binnema about this. That is not mandatory either, but I would find it interesting and important to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u66	The approach we have chosen is to concentrate now on the measures that lie ahead and on our concerns and doubts. I think the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is more than willing to think with you about a more fundamental revision of the tax system, rather today than tomorrow. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Binnema. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers given by the Minister and the Secretary of State. First of all, a correction to my first-term contribution. Corporate tax in the first tranche is not reduced from 21% to 16%, but from 20% to 15%. Then I would like to comment on the fall in purchasing power for lower incomes. Next year 1.1% compared to 1.7% for higher incomes. We have asked the Secretary of State why they are choosing to do so. He said that we cannot fix everything through taxation, because tax policy must also take account of objectives other than balanced income development. He said that we have already done as much as possible in the August package for those lower incomes. I note that even after the August package, the difference between low and higher incomes has not been reduced compared to the coalition agreement. We therefore consider that this difference is highly undesirable in policy terms. Mr. Chairman. The increase in energy taxation, in particular the €51 per year per household, leads to 0.2% additional loss of purchasing power for low incomes. But for the Secretary of State, you can't deduct it from the 1.1% increase in purchasing power, because that's not how we calculate. The Secretary of State acknowledges that the 1.1% calculation does not include these additional disadvantages for lower incomes, but then he says: yes, that is our calculation method and you should not disturb it because you are suddenly showing that 0.2%. Technically, the Secretary of State may be right, but what matters to people is, of course, the final improvement in purchasing power. So according to the CPB studies, it's only 0.9% for low incomes, if you pull that off. And if you also picture the VAT increase, then you see the following. Now it is assumed in the calculation that it works relatively equally hard for all income groups. We have doubted that, with other groups. Then the image gets even more negative. Then the Secretary of State says, among other things, with the support of a 2013 report, that it is still a question of whether the VAT increase is more negative for lower incomes. But in the meantime, from that 2013 report, he mentions a number of figures that only confirm our position. So for the time being, considering all the reports from the past, it is very plausible, if you add up all those reports, that indeed the VAT increase for lower incomes is relatively negative on their purchasing power than for higher incomes. We cannot prove that, because we have asked the Secretary of State several times in the House of Representatives and here we have asked the CPB to calculate that again. He said that's not in the model, so we're not gonna do that. This is going to be difficult to discuss, but for the time being we are sticking to our position, especially since the government is absolutely unable to refute it. All in all, my group maintains its conclusion that, following the tax review that is now under way, people on low incomes will hardly make any progress, while people who are already well off will make more progress. That is why the SP Group will vote against the relevant tax laws. With regard to the tax on profits, the State Secretary states that he prefers a lower rate for the business environment, but with a broader basis than vice versa. Well, that could be true. In itself, we would not have much objection to that. If he thinks that there are indeed large international companies that are fooled by this and think that the location climate in the Netherlands has become more favourable, give him that illusion. However, that view does not alter the fact that, by 2021, there will be a net reduction in the present proposals, i.e. a reduction in the rate minus a basic broadening of the profit tax, of 2 billion per year. That by 2028 the basis will be widened further, you really should not include in this calculation, as I explained in the first period. The SP Group is opposed to this reduction in the tax on profits and will therefore vote against the relevant law. Mr. Chairman. My questions about the Shell constructions..................................................................................................................................................................................................... He says it's just legal regulations that don't change. Therefore, the current proposals against tax avoidance do not change them either. That's exactly what I think is the problem. My question to the Secretary of State is: should we not change these arrangements in the fight against tax avoidance, so that this form of tax avoidance is also made impossible? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the tax burden on housing corporations by limiting the interest deduction in the IPB. As of 2021, according to the State Secretary, other financial measures over-compensation is granted to the corporations, and by 2022, a small amount of the 350 million tax increase remains due to the limitation of the interest deduction. So that's according to the Secretary of State. I think that is an incorrect way of calculating. I calculated it in detail in the first period, but the Secretary of State has ignored that. He keeps his old calculation. So that's where we disagree. More importantly, however, the figures "the State Secretary calls this "figures of others', while those others are the housing corporations which also show an autonomous increase in the PPB and the landlord levy in the coming years. All in all, they come to a billion more. On these figures, the Secretary of State has hardly fought. He just said that the phasering might be different as far as he is concerned and that we should all look at it again. Finally, he says he will come back to it in the spring in a report. He agrees to send these to our room as well. We won't get much further with that. There is an acute problem that threatens to stop the new construction of social housing, at least for a number of years. As long as these are the prospects of corporations, they will not be able to make these investments. They're irresponsible. If it is true that the tax burden is so high that it will not be possible to continue investment in new buildings and in the sustainability of housing, as agreed with the corporations, then additional measures by the Cabinet must be clarified quickly in order to resolve this problem. That is what we are asking for in our motion and I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. We are also very curious to see how the coalition parties are going to vote on this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u71	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would first of all like to thank the Minister for OCW for explaining, explaining and clarifying the proposals to replace the abolition of monuments. I can tell by her involvement in the heritage. We also welcome the various commitments she has made in the debate and in the debate on the interruptions. In conclusion, I would like to say that we will support the proposal, and we have also co-signed Mr Bruijn's motion. My group is of the opinion that we have thus done justice to the concerns of those concerned and, on balance, that is the profit of joint treatment. It'll take a little more time, but you'll have some. I have heard a driven, competent and ambitious Secretary of State defend government policy here. He has convinced us that the cabinet has used the trend breaks that I have appointed in the right direction and in the right direction. Some of these trends, namely the international aspects of tax avoidance, also increase international acceptance. We support the cabinet, because this is a complex and far-reaching project that goes far beyond 2019. It is not a major reform of the system, but it is a very good first step towards improvement. I opened with the point of system review. I have also spoken in more detail about a number of building blocks at an interruption by Mr Ester. I will not go further on this now, but the D66 Group will be looking for support. That is also where my interruption from just now to Mr Binnema was about to contribute along that path to a cabinet-wide project that I believe will be increasingly necessary in view of the changed international economy and climate change. My group has been encouraged in this by the Secretary of State. Conversely, we encourage him to focus broadly and fundamentally on the Ex'tax project. But of course that is not the only thing that has been published and will be published. I don't have any new questions. This is the credit of the Minister, the Secretary of State and colleagues in the various interruptions, which has clarified and improved a number of issues. We can move on with that. Mr. Chairman. I will advise the group to support these legislative proposals. And then let's look at the real economy. Tomorrow morning, the manager of the coffee bar will ask me in the neighborhood: "And? Is VAT going to go up?" Because then, of course, he has to adjust his prices on the board. That is the real economy. Then I will answer him: at least we will vote in favour next week, and there is a good chance that it will continue. And then I'll order an extra strong coffee, because this has been a long day. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u73	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their extensive consideration of the proposals before us. I feel I am well served in the longer term by the Secretary of State with regard to my unrealistic dreams of the future. I therefore generally agree with the proposed measures. The same applies to the subsidy for state monuments, and the same applies to the tax package. On two points, I do see some reservations. The first is, and this is obvious, and I have always said so, the reduction in the VAT rates. I still do not want the reasons for this: I see neither necessity nor desirability there. I still don't quite understand why the Secretary of State says they're actually paying for it themselves. He says: we lower the rates, but we broaden the base to almost the same extent. Yes, but there is a significant part of this broadening of the basis that consists of measures to reduce tax avoidance. These are precisely tax avoidances that we did not want at all. So if we want to compensate for these additional costs for business right away by lowering the rates, then I am actually going a little too far. The second point I have some problems with is the result of the Earnings Stripping measure aimed at housing corporations. That is why I co-signed Mr Köhler's motion. Otherwise, I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u75	Madam President. We also thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers. I shall begin with the tax measure on State Monuments. We actually asked for four cases. First of all, more legal certainty. That is why we have also co-signed the motion tabled by Mr Bruijn. In the explanatory statement given by the Minister, she made it very clear how the procedure would proceed. In particular, it is important that, in comparison with the current procedure whereby you can obtain a pre-fixing for deductibility, especially in the case of larger maintenance cases, this can also be done in the future with the grant application. I am therefore curious about her reaction to the motion. The second thing we asked for is a better right of transition. In this respect, the Minister has also made a commitment which we have very much appreciated. It has said that it will reconsider whether or not compensation can be given in those specific cases where a determination agreement has been issued for the deductibility of maintenance costs for the State Monument and there is a transfer to the following year. If I'm right, she called it a disadvantage compensation. This is, of course, in addition to the commitment already made in writing that if you pay in advance in 2018 for maintenance that will be carried out in 2019, that will be deductible. Then a third wish on our part. The Minister has made it very clear that she is not going to meet that. This relates to the combination of subsidy for maintenance and loans from the National Restoration Fund. She said about this that you can get a subsidy for the maintenance and that you can still apply to the National Restoration Fund for the restoration. We can live with that explanation. An important commitment that she has made and which we particularly appreciate because it was seen as a bottleneck for many owners in that situation, concerns fiscally transparent bodies, in particular the underlying shareholders/certificate holders. I would like to ask the Minister, if possible, if it is possible to do so, to deal with the matter of detail, and it is a matter of urgency, because 1 January, in a letter to the First Chamber, the new law is already going to formulate exactly what has just been promised and how it is going to incorporate the last point in the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision that she has shared with our Chamber. I do have some ideas about this, but it is now a little late for this, but this could be done, for example, in the definition of the target group. Maybe that's what she wants to do. That'll help. And then I can report that to my group. That is what this measure is about. Then, as far as the Secretary of State is concerned. I have great admiration for him and for the pace he continues, although he sometimes stumbles over his own words. It doesn't matter at all, because we can track him. In that respect, but every further comparison also stops there, the image of young Jan Peter Balkenende, who always spoke too quickly, came to me. Maybe there's still a political career to be Prime Minister of this country. Anyway, let's leave it at that. Thank you for the substance of the reply. In addition to his commitment to international fiscal policy, I have already said this in the first term, and I also agree with what he has said. He says he wants to argue that in Brussels and especially in Paris. Not because we as the Netherlands are the best boy in the class and know it all better, but because we do not put ourselves under the grain size, something we are sometimes very good at in this country. I think we should be proud to have chosen that attitude. Last week I was in Brussels with a CDA delegation and we were in front of Mr Moscovici who also said so in so many words. We had the impression that he also meant that seriously and that is sometimes pleasant. I would have liked to have said that to the Secretary of State, because that will be achieved. That is why the idea of advocating such a zero measurement, the keep performance indicators, also in Brussels, is a very good idea. Finally, with regard to the Tax Administration, I have understood the three priorities. We're gonna talk about that January 29th. I told you before, it's a major tax operation. We shouldn't underestimate that. I don't like the word "reform." Tax never ends, as has already been noted by the Secretary of State. It is precisely the execution tests that show that the Tax Administration should be able to handle this. I think the interesting thing about this whole operation is that the Tax Administration should also be able to do it, precisely because it is not a very large system change, but because only existing buttons are played. Let's talk about this on the 29th of January. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, that was it in the second term. I'd like to give back those almost three minutes that are left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u76	Thank you, Mr. Van Rij. I give the floor to Mrs Van Leeuwen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers in the first term. I understand he thinks I was a little early with my supplementary questions on the possibility of a slaughter tax. I note that the Secretary of State does show some goodwill, and I appreciate that very much. I therefore hope that he will not take too long to look seriously at the possibility of a slaughter tax, because we simply have no time to waste. However, I have not yet received an answer from the Secretary of State to the question whether he is prepared to follow the example of the minister of OCW to choose vegetable food as a starting point for dinners provided by the Ministry, according to the concept of "Carnivore? Pass it on." I would like your answer to that. With regard to the pricing of fruit and vegetables, the Secretary of State did not, in my view, make clear how a rise in the price of fruit and vegetables through higher VAT relates to the prevention policy, which focuses on more plant-based food. Now that we do not achieve climate goals without involving citizens, we will have to guide citizens towards climate-friendly and healthy food and discourage them from buying climate-unfriendly food. In that context, I would like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Leeuwen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Binnema and Mr Reuten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an increase in VAT on fruit and vegetables is a wrong signal in the context of a prevention policy in which the public authorities say they want to promote the consumption of fruit and vegetables and therefore merit review;]] [[Whereas a heavier burden on animal products, which the government intends to discourage in the context of climate and health policy, could constitute a compensatory measure to maintain public revenues and improve the effectiveness of the prevention objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities and effects of such measures and to report to the Court within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u78	Mr. Chairman. I have drawn attention to the fact that the youngtimer scheme for electric cars is unworkable, because there are de facto no electric cars of 15 years and older. I understand that the Secretary of State is not entirely sure whether or not this proposal will be more advantageous. That is why I would like to table the next motion, in which I ask for an investigation into the possibilities of making electric youngtimers attractive to Dutch users, by giving them the predicate youngtimer after five years. This will also result in more electric cars becoming available on the private market in the long term, as less will be exported after the first five years. This is also positive for the development of a cost-effective loading infrastructure and thus for a replacement of the fleet. The President shall: Mr Van Leeuwen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Binnema and Mr Reuten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the "young-timer scheme" allows for commercial driving of electric cars aged 15 years and older with a limited increase of 17% for business drivers;]] [[Whereas there is virtually no supply of electric cars over 15 years of age;]] [[Whereas the youngtimer scheme is applied almost exclusively to old-fashioned, petrol and diesel cars;]] [[whereas this does not serve the climate objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of including electric cars aged 5 years and over under the youngtimer scheme in order to prevent exports of clean vehicles and to report to the Chamber within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35029-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u79	Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u80	Thank you, Mrs Van Leeuwen. I ask Minister Van Engelshoven if she has the opportunity to react immediately. The Secretary of State may need five minutes. Can we then do it in such a way that Mrs Van Engelshoven reacts and that you will have that five minutes before the suspension? Then Mrs. Van Engelshoven has been excused. Shall we do it like this? I call the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u81	Mr President, thank you very much, and also thank you for your coulance with regard to my presence for the rest of the evening. For me a clear second term. Thank you also to all those Members who have supported the scheme. I notice that there is or was still some doubt in some of them. This is mainly about legal certainty, I also say to Mr Schalk. For the sake of clarity, what about the difference in security between the deduction and the subsidy? I do feel that there is a great difference in perception and that this is not entirely in line with reality. In the Cabinet's view, there is no less legal certainty with regard to the new subsidy scheme, in particular because the grant scheme involves precisely defined eligible costs. That is precisely described in the guide. It has been working on this for many years, and that is perfectly clear to everyone. The deduction is much more open, because there are deductible maintenance costs that have been reasonably incurred. There is often a difference between what maintenance is, because that is deductible, and improvement, because that is not deductible. These are precisely the points on which there is often discussion with the Tax Administration. There is indeed the possibility of prior consultation with the Bureau of Monuments of the Tax Office at the Tax Office, but this consultation provides only limited security. Firstly, it is only used to a limited extent. We should not overestimate the need for it. There are around 17,000 taxable persons who make use of the deduction annually and only 600 of them ask for clarification in advance, so it seems that this need is not so bad. Most of them don't ask that at all. Even though BBM issued such a statement in advance, even then there is often discussion afterwards, because it is such a grey area. What exactly is maintenance and what is improvement? In the case of checks, this is often corrected, so the certainty of that tax deduction is also relative. In our view, this guidance for the grant is far more certain than the deduction which is much more an open standard, so we should not overestimate the issue either. There is always the possibility of prior advice by the RCE, as Mr Bruijn and Mr Van Rij rightly said, especially in those larger tasks, above €70,000. Now I understand that Mr Bruijn's motion is designed to make that a little more firm than an opinion, so that the RCE really is judged and a little more certainty can be derived from it. I understand that this is what people want, because we are talking about significant amounts. I am therefore happy to give this motion of censure to the Chamber, on the understanding that the work must be carried out in accordance with the terms of reference, otherwise there will always be room for correction when it is checked. But I assume you understand that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two questions. Mr Bruijn asked whether, if the law is reviewed, it is not a law, but a subsidy scheme that is evaluated and that evaluation can also be sent to this Chamber. I'd be happy to tell you. The second question was from Mr Van Rij: can the solution that I am going to seek for the transparent e.g. can be sent to the Chamber in a letter? I will, so that you know how we can find a solution. I understand that you had another suggestion, but we can exchange it outside this sitting. Mr. Chairman. That's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u82	Thank you. I wish you happy holidays at this time, Minister. The Secretary of State wanted another five or six minutes suspension. Seven minutes, until 11:35, is that enough? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u83	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the clock and your goal of ending today, I thought: let me use every minute I have left to bring that goal closer. I have about ten more questions I would like to answer and seven or eight motions. Before I start, I would like to thank all Members once again for the questions they have asked and the pleasant discussion we have had on this large package of legislative proposals. I really enjoy doing that here in the Chamber. The fact that I sometimes talk almost too quickly in my own enthusiasm does not always happen to me. But today I tried to keep the pace high, so that we can enjoy it to the maximum. Keeping the ball circulation high is a recipe to close a football game often winning, but there we can maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u85	I must compliment you that despite your high speed, you continue to articulate well and remain intelligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u86	I'm glad to hear that. So there are still a number of questions. Let me start with Mr Van Strien, who was able to mention that on page 14 of the technical briefing sheets, which I did not happen to have with me, a graph was described on the marginal tax burden. His question was why that can't be a gradual ascending line. That's almost a wishful thinking. We all wish it was so simple that you could accompany that marginal pressure very neatly. Unfortunately, this is because we have a lot of regulations that all have targets at different levels and therefore all have an impact on marginal pressure. For example, at the bottom of the distribution of income, this is due to the construction of the labour discount and the IACK. They go in different steps. This then leads to a lower marginal pressure, just in that first part and above that the pressure gets higher again. Then we'll add the cut-off discounts. That makes things a little complicated sometimes. I actually agree with him; it's more of a sigh. Then you also see these weird peaks in marginal pressure. Let me put it this way. I think Mr Van Strien would prefer it to be very gradual. I think we all want that, but in the end, it's actually quite complicated to get there. But we must continue to strive for it. This was the graph; this is what he meant. It does look like a bum if you're trying to explain. I won't do any of that right now, but there are a lot of arrangements behind it that make it the way it is. Mrs Sent rightly pointed out that I had forgotten to answer her question in the context of the Act adjusting gambling tax for sports betting and whether the provision on a promotional remote gambling game does not belong before in the KOA bill. I actually agree with Mrs Sent that the relationship between the current gambling tax bill and the KOA bill is confusing in some respects. You know, when I was studying this, I've had a lot of trouble with that myself. Then I thought, "Oh, no, that's the other bill. In fact, the KOA bill already included a definition of remote gambling, specifically for the gambling tax. However, it has recently been found that this provision for gambling tax had to be adjusted for a promotional game of chance at a distance. For this reason, the amendment is now included in the current gaming tax bill. If we had recorded it at the time, we would have done well at once. What she finds is correct and it is also confusing. I'll admit it right away. Mr Van de Ven had two more questions. His own proposal was to take them off in writing. Hey, that's too bad, I thought. We could have put a few fiscal articles into the depths. But I actually understand, especially in view of the time, that it might be wise to take these questions off in writing. We will do so, and we will do so before the votes as you asked. I think that should be possible. That might also help the VVD group to draw up their thoughts on this issue. Then there are a number of questions from Mr Binnema. Can the low-taxing country's rate by definition not exceed 9%, or is that a choice? By definition, it could be more. We could have said that it is 12%, but that was not my preference because I wanted the same definition to apply to the withholding tax that we intend to levy on interest and royalties. At the time when we wanted to do that, because of EU law, we got into trouble with the European directive on interest rates and royalties and what it identifies as a low-taxed country. So we could have chosen to deviate it knowingly, but precisely because we continue to talk about it in Europe, I did not do so. And I think 9% was still quite a bit of a shock for a number of countries, because they could just be blacklisted. Then he asked me if there was any discussion between the EU Member States on how to implement the CFC and actually ATAD in general. Consultation is a big word. It is not the case that we agree on this in advance or that there is coordination in the way we do it. They are truly independent national political considerations. As we do, so will other countries. At the same time, it is ultimately wise to see what those other countries are doing and how they are implementing it. We have also asked the European Commission to give us an overview of this, because the same question had already been raised in the House of Representatives. That is where I said I would ask the Commission to deliver it. In addition, we will add some kind of imposition note, so that we can give some weighting of what we see in it. So we're not just gonna pass it on nicely, but we're gonna add something of an imposition note. Then Mr Köhler asked again in the second term what we thought of the possibility for multinationals to take into account interest relief and liquidation losses. Once again, I said that the present series of legislative proposals does not change that and that it is therefore actually the state of the law of today. Of course, there can always come a time when we think things have to be different. That is not the cabinet's proposal, but it is not impossible, of course, to regulate it differently legally. By the way, here's what I'm gonna say. In the case of both schemes, the deductibility and the loss of liquidation arrangements, there are several judgments of European judges. They have already indicated several times that in certain cases, and quite specifically sometimes, it is compulsory to allow this deduction. So it is not entirely free and that we can do and leave anything. Especially when it comes to allowing losses of national borders, there are also European rules. Anyway, that's a little bit of technique. But it's really the cabinet's choice to do it the way we do it now. Mr Köhler also had a number of calculations, but I promised my officials not to go into them too much. I wrote on a piece of paper that it's very partially calculated. That's what I keep finding out about the way he's picturing a number of things. I would like to say that, as from 2021, the structural reality continues beyond 2021 on the basis of the broadening of the base of 2 billion per year. He takes exactly the year of the cabinet proposal. Indeed, there you see 1.8 billion as relief. If he had done the same before 2019, he would have seen that the legislative proposals we are making this year add 1.7 billion to the burden on business. It is therefore unwise to look at 2021, just as it would be unwise to look only at 2019. That is precisely why we continue to calculate structuralally. We always do that with such measures. I also remain of the opinion that that is the best way to look at the effects you achieve with legislation. Anyway, on balance, there's still that half a billion relief. Well, that makes sense. Then he said of the way I calculated, for example, the effects of housing corporations: yes, that is one reality, but I am looking at another reality. He mentioned the numbers that the housing corporations themselves gave up as Vpb liabilities. Now I won't do the you-bowl of: you have to ask what they thought they were going to pay earlier and what they actually paid Vpb. There's still some light in there. Moreover, most of the measures we have passed on here are also simply certified by the planning agency. It's not like there's anyone-may-but-what-call-like estimates behind it. We make these estimates truly independent of the objectives. It's also another club that windows that. Moreover, many of the estimates are also certified by the planning agency. I know that we probably do not entirely agree on all the results of the estimates and what they mean, but I would like to make the point that sometimes it is actually a kind of certified estimate, which I think is worth a little bit more than what the company itself says it is going to pay for corporation tax. Finally, I had indeed not yet responded to Mrs Van Leeuwen's question as to whether I intended in our ministry the "Carnivore? Pass it on!"-theme to land. First of all, of course, I am not a minister, so I am not going to discuss it at all, but I can consider it, and I will. I had to get used to the slogan, although apparently it is a slogan of a very good acquaintance. First I thought, "Do you have to report those carnivores?" Is it gonna go all wrong if you eat it? But now I know it's about adjusting the default. That is indeed not insignificant in the behavioral economy. I heard right. I am not saying yes and I am not saying no, but I am taking it into consideration and at least hand it over to the Minister of Finance who is ultimately talking about it. Mr. Chairman. I come to the motions and I hope I keep the right order. I shall begin with Mr Köhler's motion with the letter F (35030). It calls on the government to propose additional measures if it appears that the investment area is too small to achieve the agreed sustainability and new construction programmes. This motion builds on a motion which has been held by the General Financial Reviews. I said quite extensively then why I do not think this is a very good idea. I do not agree with the considerations. We are taking measures which, according to our calculations, lead to a reduction in the burden on housing corporations in the years of this cabinet. I find it difficult to follow the expectation that the investment area is too small. It is now too early to say that it is quite different than we expected, and that is why we need to deal with this motion. That's why I dissuade the motion, just like I did last time. Mrs Sent tabled a motion with the letter H (35026) asking the government to investigate the impact of the reduced VAT rate on the different income groups. Prior to the negotiations for the next Millions note, she wanted a response to that. In my comments I mentioned earlier that I am not convinced... Look, a research motion sounds generally easy, but we have a strong suspicion, based on a number of insights, that there are really no big differences to be expected. In fact, we suspect that sometimes they will be reversed in relation to what Mrs Sent thinks. So I don't think an investigation is a good idea. I could give it some kind of judgment room, but I want to save our own people from too many investigations. We still have a lot on the agenda. For that reason, I have decided to discourage this motion. The investigation will not yield any great new insights, so is my prediction. Mrs Sent has also tabled a motion with the letter I (35026) on the power test for every form of tax legislation. There are several ways of addressing the citizen's perspective and the questions that lie behind it. We have an integral balancing framework (IAK). In the case of planned policies, we are testing for public equity. For tax legislation, the cabinet reflects the administrative burden. We have now also set up the focus groups. In any case, the Tax Administration is trying to reach citizens through different channels. We try to join the experience of the different groups of taxpayers. We believe that the modernisation and reduction of regulations for citizens and businesses is still important. For me, it is an explicit part of the building blocks that I am about to lay out. All in all, I think we're already doing a lot. The formal application of a power test in any form of tax legislation is too difficult for me. That is why I reject the motion, not because I do not support the underlying idea, but because I find the wording of the motion too difficult. Then I have a motion with the letter G (35026) by Mr Ester and a considerable number of other Members on the indexation of legal standards. As he said, I've gone a little formalistic-strong on that. That was, of course, because we have just taken measures. Of course, that also has to do with the fact that you get these weird numbers when you start indexing annually. I really wonder whether that is the intention and whether we should include it in our legislation. We've already adjusted the cost. I know what's behind it, but it didn't get me very excited. So I have to make a judgment on this motion. If I read the motion very literally, at least it is uncovered and therefore technically inappropriate. Well, then I'd have to dissuade her. If the intention is that we should at times, for example once every five years, examine together whether there is any reason to increase that amount, to keep up with it, there will be no budgetary consequences. And then I'd like to go along with the direction of that motion. But if the motion remains very strong as it is, I regret to say that I have no choice but to discourage it for budgetary reasons. But maybe that's not necessary, if we can read her differently. Then we had a motion from Mr Binnema c.s. under letter C (35029), which requested the Government to compensate for the burden increases resulting from the reduction in the energy tax reduction and to inform the Court of Justice of this at the latest in the spring note. I have already said that the path we have chosen for this was not for nothing. The moment we take a measure here, it should be covered in a different way. We do not think that is wise. We consider the current purchasing power picture to be balanced. That is why I would advise against the motion; Mr Binnema will not be entirely surprised. Then there are two motions by Mrs Van Leeuwen. The first of these, the motion under letter J (35026), asks the Cabinet to examine the possibilities of creating a zero rate of VAT on fruit and vegetables or, for example, a heavier tax on protein and to report to the First Chamber within three months. A little further away from the content, the latter would be almost impossible. I understand the rush. In a way I appreciate it, but it's really very difficult. Moreover, it is really very difficult, if not impossible in the implementation, to define what fruit and vegetables are and to determine the VAT on that basis. Previously, we were also talking about a high VAT rate for meat, for example. The same applies to meat. Many parts of products are processed in other products. Then you have to try to think of some kind of provision of exactly how much it is and whether it is sufficient. The well-known discussion in the VAT world was once about a chocolate egg with a gift in it. That chocolate egg might fall under the low rate, but the present in it would fall under the high rate. The question that was put to the inspector was: "What is it? Are you getting a present or are you getting a Easter egg?" I can tell you that there have been a lot of procedural times in order to be able to answer that. I also remember the same discussions at Greening II when we talked about fruit and vegetables. The question was whether you could stimulate healthy eating via VAT. In fact, we came to the conclusion at that time that the adjustment of VAT is not the most appropriate measure to promote this type of behaviour. It's a long story, but I thought it'd be nice to tell you. In the end, I would advise against the motion for a resolution for the reasons I have just mentioned. Then the last motion, the motion under letter D (35029). It's also Mrs. Van Leeuwen's c.s. It was about the investigation of electric cars of five years and over. Couldn't they have been covered by the youngtimer scheme? Actually, I had given the answer a little bit in my first term. I said that the promotion of electric cars is part of the current consultations at the climate table. Quite apart from the question of whether everyone would be so happy if we changed the scheme, I do not want to anticipate what is happening at the climate table now. For that reason, apart from the fact that it would not be covered, I would advise against the motion. You might be able to keep him, but that is of course entirely up to you. Then perhaps we could look after the climate tables to see if it could still be worth it. Mr. Chairman. I have therefore given the answers and dealt with the motions at one minute to twelve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u87	I admire very much, Secretary of State, that you have done so. Unfortunately, I am the one who has just turned it over to 12 December, because I still have a few sentences to say before I can close the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u88	I have come to deal with the nine legislative proposals. I have to ask Members individually whether they wish to vote or not. 35026, Amendment of some tax laws and some other laws (Taxation Plan 2019). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then next Tuesday the bill will be voted on. I will say in a moment that we will be voting on the motions next Tuesday. 35027, Amendment of some tax laws and some other laws (Other tax measures 2019). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then we will vote on it next week. 35028, Amendment of some laws related to some measures for business (Business Act 2019). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. The vote will take place next week. 35029, Amendment of some tax laws and some other laws (Fiscal greening measures 2019). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then we will vote on it next Tuesday. 35030, Amendment of the Corporate Tax Act 1969 and the Recovery Act 1990 related to the implementation of Council Directive (EU) 2016/1164 of 12 July 2016 laying down rules to combat tax avoidance practices directly affecting the functioning of the internal market (PbEU 2016, L 234/26) (Act implementing first EU anti-tax avoidance Directive). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. The vote will take place next Tuesday. 35031, Amendment of the Gaming Tax Act for Country Betting on Sports (Act adjusting Gaming Tax for Sports Betting). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. The vote will take place next Tuesday. 35032, Amendment of the Sales Tax Act 1968 (Law implementing Article 1 e-commerce Directive). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. The vote will take place next Tuesday. 35033, Amendment of the Law on turnover taxes 1968 (Law on the modernisation of small enterprises). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. The vote will take place next Tuesday. 34556, Amendment of the Income Tax Act 2001 with a view to abolishing the deduction of expenditure on monuments (Law on State Monuments Tax). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. The vote will take place next Tuesday. I also propose that next Tuesday we vote on all the motions, including the Strike motion (35000, letter E), which was then put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-14.u89	I have one more question for those who have tabled the motions. Is it possible for you, as far as you have it, to deliver it electronically to the Registry? Otherwise, they all have to be overwhelmed, with the possibility of mistakes being made. There are also motions where what has been modified in the text. That's a little trickier, they're gonna have to be overwhelmed. But as far as that has not happened, would you be so kind as to deliver the motions electronically to the Registry? We are very grateful for that.
