ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	We are now going to Mr Raemakers of D66 for his question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment on the message 'An important subject' too! The Commission considers that the rights of alleged assistance fraudsters are less protected than the rights of suspects in criminal proceedings. Mr. Raemakers, I'd wait for a moment until things calm down in the room. Otherwise, you can't be heard. I call Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Fraud is never okay and certainly not in welfare. If you're on welfare, you're gonna get temporary tax money and that's paid by people who work. Let me be clear: fraud is never okay. But we read in the Volkskrant last weekend that the powers to prove this fraud go a long way, even in people who are not at all clear that they have committed fraud, in whom there is no reasonable suspicion at all. The powers of social services in the case of cohabitation fraud go very far, according to that article in the Volkskrant. What's that in? First of all, there's espionage from social services, which makes people feel like they're being chased. Cameras are being hung up and GPS tracking systems are being taped under cars. But the most serious thing to read was that children on the street, children 9 years old, while playing outdoors, were asked: what about your father or mother; what about his or her living situation? I therefore have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Where is the border as far as she's concerned? Does she find it unacceptable, like D66, for a 9-year-old child to be questioned on the street while playing outside? What's she gonna do about it? And what will the Secretary of State do about using cameras and GPS trackers? Is she going to make this clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I have also read the article and you do get the impression that it can get pretty spicy when you have a benefit and are checked. I also understand Mr Raemakers' concerns about this, but I also get a lot of signals from people who are very concerned about fraud with benefits. That is something Mr Raemakers also referred to. Fraud is the nail in the coffin of our social services, let me put it this way. It also defies the support for our social security. I don't think you should believe people on their blue eyes when you give them benefits and say, "Do it; we don't check." But I don't think you should be chasing people and mischievous. As far as I am concerned, that would be the limit. What would I stand for? That is a realistic approach. But let's take a look at the facts. There are around 462,000 people in the Netherlands with welfare benefits. In 2016, there were about 11,000 observed offences with a financial disadvantage. This amounts to EUR 71 million in benefits and EUR 9 million in fines. So that's a significant amount. I believe that the assistance is an achievement in our country. I think it's a good thing we can fall back on that. I don't think you should be ashamed of being on welfare. But I do think we should control it proportionally. That's good, and I think it's normal. To answer the last question: I am indeed willing to see whether and how we can better embed this proportionality in the Participation Act and specifically see how we can better embed supervision, for example with cameras.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you to the Secretary of State for this clarification, but I have actually received no answer to the two very specific questions I have asked. I mentioned the fact that a 9-year-old child, while playing outside, was questioned by a social detective. Of that we should all say: we are not going to question children who are playing outside! I would very much like to have a moral judgment from the Secretary of State. What is she going to do to make sure that in future little children are no longer questioned by social detectives? Secondly, it is important that this is on the retina with the Secretary of State. Using cameras and GPS trackers can have a big impact on people and make them feel like they're being chased. I understand that it is under investigation, but when can the Chamber expect an initial proposal on the powers associated with camera espionage and the GPS trackers? They are very heavy resources, which may also have increased in intensity in recent years. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she sees it. Mr. Chairman. I have heard from the Secretary of State that the number of violations is limited when it comes to the total. It states that these powers must still be proportionate. Divosa indicates that transgressions usually do not come from bad will, but that they are due to the fact that people do not understand the system properly, for example because they are low-lettered. People find it complicated to know exactly what rules apply. Could the Secretary of State, for example, better explain the concept of "joint household"? Could it also take other measures to ensure that the rules are clear to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	I do not think it is appropriate to give a moral judgment on an individual case, not even on the newspaper article. However, I would like to point out that I think maintaining it is a good and normal thing. However, this must be done in a proportionate manner. It is therefore also important that the municipalities discuss this framework very well with their local authorities and have them checked for it. When it comes to the question of how to give camera surveillance a place in the legislation and how best to do so, we are currently studying the statements made by the Central Board of Appeal. I will get in touch with the Chamber on this as soon as possible. I also have a question... I can't read my own handwriting anymore. I would like to ask whether Mr Raemakers would like to repeat that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	That question was about people not understanding the system because, for example, they are low-lettered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	Oh, yes, very good. A lot of things happen orally. Indeed, many people who receive benefits are low-lettered. Of course there is written information, but municipalities also know it and people will point out not only their rights in writing, but also in words. I can always point out once again to municipalities that this is very important. This is not only the case with the provision of benefits, but also with other matters of concern to municipalities. But it is certainly not the case that this is only done in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	You have 14 seconds left, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	What I don't understand is that the Secretary of State doesn't want to give a moral judgment on children being questioned. In criminal law, you can't even question adults, so I don't understand why the Secretary of State can't say that the children aren't going to be questioned by social detectives in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	I have indicated that, as far as I am concerned, municipalities must state what is proportionate, but we must also establish with each other that our social security also includes solidarity. We must therefore also know that benefits that are provided are provided in law and that people must be aware that they can be monitored for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	Relief recipients are outlawed; this is how this article appears. It seems that citizens surrender their rights if they apply for assistance. Interviews aren't recorded and people are being pressured. The government is supposed to be dealing with its citizens properly, isn't it? I would like to know what the Secretary of State thinks of these practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	I just said that a welfare worker must comply with the law. That's right. The same applies to the controller: he must also comply with the law. There are all kinds of safeguards in the law, both in the Participation Act and in the General Administrative Law Act. I can give you an example of this. For example, if an anonymous tip is provided, which is often a reason to start an investigation, it must always be heard and heard about it. For example, there are many safeguards laid down in the law. We are now also finding out from the judgment of the Central Board of Appeal that it is not clear with regard to camera surveillance. Then it is important to ensure that this is supported by a proportionate and legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	Let there be no misunderstanding: everyone in this Chamber is against fraud, and of course we must maintain it. But the Volkskrant article shows that people with welfare benefits are really being chased. They're posting for their homes. They seem to have less rights than people with criminal backgrounds, for example. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State what she thinks of that. What does she think of such treatment? And is she prepared to look into giving rights to people on welfare benefits as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u15	It's not the criminal justice regime. With an amount of €50,000, it is transferred to criminal law. But it's about administrative law. That is certainly not a rightless regime. There are certainly rules, including for the auditor. But there are certainly rights for those who are addressed. You can object, you can appeal and eventually you can go to the Central Board of Appeal. Again, I cannot go into individual cases, but I have also read in the article that a number of people who appear in the article have also been agreed in the end. There is therefore a possibility of legal proceedings. I also think it is right for municipalities to ensure that they maintain the system proportionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u16	Finally, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u17	The article also says that someone who has a very early relationship and starts sleeping together a few times is actually very uncertain. 'Cause the detective says to him, it's up to me to decide if you're actually gonna live together, if that's the case with three or four times a week or two or three times a week. That space gives people incredible uncertainty because they don't know what they're up to. We shouldn't want that kind of ambiguity, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u18	The main residence is indeed an important concept when it comes to the Participation Act, but it is especially important that people provide the right information about this. If you apply for benefits, you'll be helped in this country. I think we can all be proud of that. But it also means that in return you also provide information about your living situation. Because welfare benefits are a last resort option for people. That means that, if you can stand on your own two feet again and we know in the Participation Act a partner test and a power test that is also on the agenda. People must continue to provide good information to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u19	Who was before, Mr Renkema or Mr Jasper van Dijk? Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u20	Fraud must be dealt with. Fraud is wrong. There's nothing wrong with that. But if you're reading the article, it's pretty messed up. I found that really DDR practices, a bit like in the movie Das Leben der Others. I think that is quite embarrassing, especially when you look at the extent of that fraud...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We were just having a little debate about Shell. That's about billions!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u21	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u22	Can the government tell us how much effort is being made to combat aid fraud in relation to the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and corporate fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u23	At least I can give a picture of the first part. We have, of course, regular debates in this Chamber on fraud. When it comes to social security fraud, there are always two components. One is the amount granted unlawfully. That always has to be paid back. On top of that comes a fine, where a differentiation takes place, whether someone has shown blameworthy behavior or not. This is the construction of the system of fraud and enforcement in social security. I can indeed provide the Chamber with information on this, as I have just done in the debate on the interruption with Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u24	A second question from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u25	It is very nice that we can get that on paper, but I also asked to see it in proportion to the other frauds. You can discuss that with your colleagues. How big is the commitment to combating tax evasion and corporate fraud, in which billions are involved? Then the Dutch people can also see where the priority is. As far as I am concerned, it has gone a long way and could be more balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u26	Yes. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u27	Are you also going to focus on the multinationals that are making a mess of things? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u28	I'm gonna stick to my own reading. It is a priority for me to combat fraud in social security, especially because I think it is a great privilege that we have this social security in the Netherlands. I will do everything in my power to combat and enforce this fraud. Moreover, I think that we should do so proportionally. As far as that goes, I'm sticking to my own reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u30	...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u31	I'm sorry. It's the first time you've spoken here. You need to press that button and hold it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u32	This afternoon, the Secretary of State has argued for what she calls a "realistic approach" and has used the word "proportional" three times. I would like to know whether she considers the examples in the article in de Volkskrant to be proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u33	I cannot go into individual examples. I can make reference to the statements of the Central Appeals Board. That is why we are considering whether and how we can legally anchor this proportionality in the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u34	Second question? No. Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Enforcement and fraud investigations are an important part of our social legislation, precisely in order to maintain its support under this law. So it is also important that this happens properly. I actually have one very simple question. Does the Secretary of State recognize himself in the image outlined in the Volkskrant as if this standing practice were?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u36	I can imagine situations happening that are more than we mean. That's why I think it's a good thing there's a course of justice. What I certainly do not recognize is that it would be pure espionage. There are a lot of people working in social security with heart for the good that want the money to come into the right place. I'd like them to be proud to say they're a enforcer. I think that side might have been a little under-exposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. We see that every year EUR 3 billion from the assistance budget goes to non-Western immigrants. When we look at fraud, we see that Turks are the biggest frontrunner when it comes to fraud. One in five Turks receiving assistance would receive it illegally by, for example, having a house abroad or something else. Is this Secretary of State prepared to say, if that is the case, that we want the money back to the last penny? Is it prepared never to give the people who commit that kind of fraud the right to welfare benefits for their lives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u39	I think it is of the utmost importance that everyone who pays taxes in the Netherlands knows that the money is well spent. Mr De Jong has recently requested a debate on this subject. I am currently writing to the letter which provides for the answers in order to be able to conduct that debate properly. This is my starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u40	Second question, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u41	It is, of course, very nice that we, as a Chamber, will soon be debating this, but even more important than that, I think that this Secretary of State is now saying: 'Dear Turk, at the moment you are in welfare and committing fraud', we want the money to be repaid to the last penny. They do that massively: one in five, that's quite something. They would never be able to receive welfare benefits for a lifetime. Why doesn't the Secretary of State just admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u42	What I am saying here today to people who receive welfare benefits and are in good faith is that they can do so with their heads held high, because we live in such a country. And to anyone who makes improper use of benefits or takes advantage of them, I say that we will find out and find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-5.u43	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this particular oral question.
