ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome you all: of course, the Members of Parliament and the govern ment and his support, but also the guests in the gallery and all those who follow this programme through other channels. This debate is about the bankruptcy of the IJsselmeer hospitals and the Slotervaart hospital. We have eleven speakers with a five-minute speaking time. It is agreed that in the first period a question can be asked at a maximum of six moments, either single or with a number of questions in succession; that choice is up to the one who interrupts. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Agema first. She speaks on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a hectic day: a hospital is closed, patients have been turned to the door. The VVD-botheid when it comes to the bankruptcy of five hospital sites is particularly annoying, but even worse is that the closure of the Slotervaart hospital came as a total surprise for the minister. The Ministry is out of control. The bobos are in charge when it comes to hospital care, not the minister. Drivers, owners, insurers, Healthcare Authority and inspection, everyone's taking advantage of each other by now, but where is the patient and where is the employee? They're devastated on the sidewalk of their hospital. The gap between citizen and bobo, between citizen and politics, is a huge gap. The high lords say that the hospital can close, that we can do without. The question is, on what basis? The minister doesn't even know what's causing the bankruptcy. He still has to get that information from the curators, but he's already talking to the insurance company and thezzp'ers get the blame. This isn't just unacceptable. We read that the insurer was also shocked by the dynamics of the rücksichtslos turning off the money tap. What a mess. The worst thing is that the Minister, as the final manager, set up a crisis staff to deal with the bankruptcies instead of keeping the hospitals open. The supervisors, the NZa and the inspection, didn't get a look at the Slotervaart hospital until it was too late. It wasn't until the calf drowned that the minister took action. He did the wrong thing. The Minister doesn't know if this can happen again. He's standing there looking at it. At the moment, 14 out of 68 hospitals score an insufficient financial stress test, but if next year 14 other hospitals fail to get enough good prices from insurers, they may end up in severe weather. And what does the Minister do? If you're so powerless as a minister and if insurers are so powerful that they can crash ice into a hospital in one night, what is the Ministry doing? If banks are saved but hospitals are not, what is the state of our country? If hospitals close and azc's open, how are we lost? If Minister Blok gives money to terrorists from Boko Haram and Minister Bruin's hospitals drop, how deep has our country sunk? Surely it can't be that for the residents of Flevoland the maximum driving time for ambulances of 45 minutes is going to be the norm? These ceilings apply to the outskirts of our country, not to a province as central as the province of Flevoland. That's poverty, isn't it? Isn't that a decline in hospital care that doesn't match? In 2018, VVDs consider the collapse of a hospital to be the most normal thing in the world. That was different in 2003. The then spokesperson hospital care of the VVD stood on the doorstep at the Dr. Jansen Hospital in Emmeloord to demand that that remained open. As part of the IJsselmeer hospitals, the hospital still exists. Where there's a will, there's a way out, even with VVDs. That VVD leader has been my group chairman for quite some time now. At the moment there are so many cogs in the hospital care system that a parliamentary investigation is necessary. A minister who is so powerless in such a precarious situation will make even more chunks if we do not bring up the bottom stone. If I do not get a majority in favour of this proposal and we do not convert the bills, I predict that, in a few years' time, if we are going to be faced with further debris from hospital care, we will have to conduct a parliamentary survey. If it's too late. In hindsight. What do we expect from the Minister? The minister ran into a tree on Friday. Today we want to know from him how and at what time he takes his seat behind the wheel of hospital care, and where he drives. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Agema. Mrs Marijnissen has the floor. It speaks on behalf of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. "Government takes measures to promote public health'. This is not my personal opinion, which you may think. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is our Constitution; Article 22, to be precise. And last week we saw how in just a few hours several hospitals in our country could go bankrupt. Hospitals going bankrupt... Apparently, we live in a time and in a system where it is possible that hospitals go bankrupt. And at a time when we have "care entrepreneurs," people who think they can make money in healthcare. What do you mean "business in care"? What do you mean, profit in health care? What do you mean, bankruptcies in health care? And as if it's the most normal thing in the world, this minister has even written a manual for it. He's really there: the "Hand-to-hand bankruptcy in the care of curators"! Mr. Chairman. That's incredible, isn't it? If we look at what this minister has done to keep the Slotervaart hospital and the IJsselmeer hospitals open, the answer is as simple as sad, namely: nothing, nothing at all. Where was the minister lately? He ducked when health insurance company Achmea deliberately pulled the plug on these hospitals. For a long time it was clear that it didn't go well. And where was the minister all this time? What did the Minister do? Nothing at all; that's what it looks like. All he's done is send that manual for how to deal with bankruptcy. Mr President, this minister is actually acting like a doctor who watches the patient die, does not make the patient better, and at the time of the patient's death, says: I do have a manual on how to organise the funeral. Mr. Chairman. The moment we speak here, the unrest, misery and chaos are great, in Flevoland and in Amsterdam. Employees who don't know what they're up to. Patients who don't know what they're up to. Operations being postponed. Treatments postponed. Permanent relationships that exist between caregivers and doctors, who are on the move. In all the pieces we have received over the last few days, we can read that it is all well arranged, that people are properly cared for, that it is important that care is maintained and that it is all guaranteed. Well, someone who takes some trouble to talk to the people directly involved, to the people who work there, to the people who care there, to the people who need that care, hear that things are very different. It's not arranged at all well, it's chaos trump card. That's what this minister has to charge himself with. We therefore believe that the outcome of this debate today should be minimal: one, that these people will be assured that their hospital will continue to exist; and two, that the Minister will convince this Chamber how he is going to ensure that these bankruptcies are prevented in the future. A place where doctors and nurses work with heart and soul to give patients the care they need, reduced this minister so we could all hear "" to a pile of stones." A pile of rocks! He also pointed out that he actually understood that health insurance company Silver Cross in this case let the hospitals go bankrupt. Nor does the Minister intend to save the hospitals. How ironic is that? He said, "I'm not a bank, am I?" But how ironic is that? Because just when the banks went bankrupt, when the banks had to be saved, it was possible. Then it could be arranged over a weekend. And now that the hospitals need to be saved, this cabinet, with this minister in the lead, is painfully quiet. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today not only about the bankruptcy of these hospitals, but also about the bankruptcy of the sacred faith in the market, in which hospitals are companies that have to compete with each other rather than cooperate. A system in which the minister gives wrong caretakers a bag of money to run a hospital. These wrong caretakers have made a mess of it and earn salaries higher than those of our Prime Minister. Our Prime Minister, who is responsible for everything that is happening here! Today's question is, of course, above all: what is the Minister going to do now? Is he gonna sit on his hands or is he gonna stand up and intervene? Will he continue to look at this uncertainty for the people of Flevoland and Amsterdam or will he take action? If he chooses the health of the people, he now picks up the phone, calls the health insurance companies and instructs them to ensure that the Slotervaart hospital and the IJsselmeer hospitals can make a start. Then he buys time to come up with a good and responsible solution. The dismantling of hospitals has to stop today. And at that start-up, we're avoiding the caretakers of this world. We want to go back to public hospitals where money for care goes to care and caregivers decide what is the best care, not health insurance. Finally, Mr President. More than 30,000 people have signed the petition to keep these hospitals open in just a few days. That must be the outcome of this debate today. They're our hospitals. They're from society. The Slotervaart hospital must stay and the IJsselmeer hospitals must remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you for your input. Mr Kuzu has the floor. He speaks on behalf of DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Rutte III piles disaster on disaster. Today we are witnessing the umpteenth disaster of Rutte III. There has been an incredible disaster for the Slotervaart hospital and the IJsselmeer hospitals. Disaster for Daphne, with a connective tissue disease that can tear her eardrums and cause her to have fear of becoming deaf. Disaster for Vivian, who has been on a month's journey for a stomach reduction and soon was due, but is now uncertain whether it will be her turn soon. Disaster for Ferdinand, 74 years old, who was scheduled for a groin-breaking operation and has been shipped off with a chat that will come up with a new date for an operation by letter. Not to mention the disaster for the medical specialists, the nurses, the support staff and all those people who love their hospital. Mr. Chairman. Is this the disaster of a vain belief in the inviolability of the healthcare system by mainly VVD ministers on VWS? Is this the disaster of years of market failure in healthcare? Is this the disaster that health insurance companies have caused by financially destroying hospitals from the point of view of profit? Who knows? What I do know is that these are at least the disasters of only one year, Bruno Bruins, the Minister of Medical Care, who says cold and without any sense of care: we are not guarding a pile of stones; we are not the bank; those hospitals themselves must ensure that the business is in order. This minister stood by and looked at it, while hospitals went bankrupt, patients were thrown into uncertainty and medical personnel threatened to lose their jobs. He's the health secretary who says he's not about hospitals. So he's basically some kind of minister without a wallet. He's the one footballer who's always out of line. Can the Minister understand how unfair it sounds to the people in the country when they hear this minister say "I am not a bank and the hospitals should take care of it themselves," whereas more than 30 billion went to ABN AMRO and Fortis, 10 billion went to ING and 3 billion went to Aegon and a fund of no less than 200 billion was set up for all banks and financial institutions? The message was: banks cannot go bankrupt. But why should hospitals go bankrupt anyway? All these billions of euros were pumped into the banks to clean up the ruins of casino capitalism, but when hospitals fall down, the Minister says: I am following the situation closely. For the guests in the public gallery and the viewers at home, that's policy language for: I don't really care so much, figure it out yourself. Mr. Chairman. The cause of this disaster, of course, lies in market thinking in the care sector. On the one hand, three successive Rutte Cabinets did not want to change the health system in any way, even more so, to enter into discussion about the system, while on the other hand health insurance companies were gaining more and more power and money under supervision and with the approval of VVD executives. The disaster of the bankrupt hospitals is a prelude to the bankruptcy of the care system. Mr. Chairman. Care is about people, treating people, healing people, making people better. Care isn't about turning profits. A hospital is not a company. Because the government pulled the hands of the Slotervaart hospital, this hospital became a play ball of health insurance companies, real estate entrepreneurs and health care entrepreneurs. One caretaker embezzled more than one million euros while the other caretaker - a very dirty word: caretaker - didn't get the hang of things. And the health insurance company financially squeezed out the hospital, deliberately blew the place up and shamelessly said in the letter they sent yesterday to the Chamber that in the two days after the application for suspension of payment they could not see what would happen. Ammehula! Who's gonna believe that? Mr. Chairman. In the relationship between hospital and health insurance, more regulation should be introduced instead of more market forces. The role of the supervisor should be strengthened. In the event of the disaster called market forces in healthcare, the government is constantly following the facts. We no longer want to see images of people being dragged head-on to other hospitals. How many hospitals are in such a bad state of financial health that they can fall over? An answer like 'I don't know' would really not be enough for this debate. Does the Minister agree with us that hospitals should be prevented from falling down? Does the Minister agree with us that we should be able to identify early and that we should be able to identify early? There must be an early warning system in which the Healthcare Authority can intervene on time in the event of major financial problems to ensure the continuity of the hospital. Is the Minister in favour of including a statutory reporting obligation for directors of serious financial and/or quality and safety problems to the early warning system? If directors fail to do so, they are jointly and severally liable in our opinion. Is the Minister in favour of the Health Authority checking the financial health of hospitals on a random basis? Is the Minister prepared to oblige health insurers to report to the Healthcare Authority in the event of a poor financial situation? Mr President, I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Lord Kuzu. Mr Arno Rutte has the floor and he is speaking on behalf of the VVD. Mrs Van den Berg, would you mind applying a dress correction to Mr Rutte? Thank you very much on behalf of Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u8	This is an entirely new interpretation of the duty of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yeah, but we take our job seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Is the care still there for me when I need it? That's a very big concern among people. Is there any care for me, or is it for my neighbors? And if two hospitals go bankrupt in our country in one day, that immediately affects that concern. That then gives rise to a great deal of concern. Mr. Chairman. The bankruptcy of two hospitals is a huge blow to all those directly involved: for all employees who have been caring for patients for years and days, for those who are being treated in that hospital and now even have to be transferred to another place, and for the inhabitants of the region who were expecting to get proper care in that place. For all, this bankruptcy leads to great uncertainty, to fear and a wretched situation. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to express my deep appreciation for everyone who has made every effort over the past week to continue this concern for people as much as possible, to give people a good place elsewhere, or to ensure that care is kept in place where it is delivered. These people do that with heart and soul. They deserve great respect. Mr. Chairman. I want to focus on two things today. First of all, I think that we should make a maximum effort together to continue caring close by, for everyone, wherever you live. Then it's also about good quality care. Secondly, we need to look very closely at what has happened around these bankruptcies, so that we can avoid this kind of messy head-on situation in the future, because we absolutely do not want it. Mr. Chairman. The situations in Amsterdam and Flevoland are not the same. Especially in the vicinity of Lelystad, Dronten, Emmeloord and Urk, the healthcare infrastructure is much thinner than in Amsterdam. I have also received a great deal of worried messages from this region. We all just received a petition. People stand up very hard for a permanent presence of hospital care in that region. And yes, it is true that there is a general standard: 45 minutes for the accessibility of emergency care. Perhaps that will be formally complied with as well. I'm not ruling that out. But there is great concern as to whether this can be achieved in practice. And the proximity to care is really about more than just emergency services. It is about many more forms of care. The concerns about this are therefore very great. Mr. Chairman. That is why I ask the Minister to make every effort to create conditions so that care can continue close to Flevoland. I would very much like to hear from the Minister what efforts he is making in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u11	But there is an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen for you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u12	I ask myself a question in the direction of Mr Rutte. Of course, it is well known that the VVD is in favour of the current system, the system as we know it now, with a form of market functioning in it. Does Mr Rutte think that this situation and these bankruptcies are a good example of market forces, namely: hospitals are going bankrupt? Or do you think it is a bad example of market forces, namely: hospitals are going bankrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u13	Failure of health care institutions is absolutely not a desired result. Let me make that clear: that is absolutely not a desired result. But it can also happen if financial management is not in order. If things don't go well for years, there could be bankruptcy. For example, let's look at the history of the Slotervaart hospital. Once upon a time, I went deep into it. The municipality of Amsterdam has independent that hospital, because year in, year out of huge capitals had to go after it. They didn't want to take the fall for that anymore. That's when it's self-destruct. In 2001, the hospital actually threatened to go bankrupt. That's when it was just saved. In 2005 it was close to one day. And then the hospital went bankrupt because of a huge tax debt. That was when we organized the care in another way, let's make that clear. Then someone got in the car and got through it again for a while. And now we're back here. I do not think that is a desirable result, but it can happen. And at a time when the financial situation in a particular place is very bad, we cannot spend unlimited money on it either. I just don't think that's justified. You can't explain that to the others either. What we need to do is to ensure that good care can be provided, that there may be a start-up and that it is organised in a different way, thus keeping that care close. But I'm not gonna make this a system discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u14	It's clear, I think. A follow-up question from Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u15	I understand that Mr Rutte does not want to make a system discussion of this, because this shows, of course, the bankruptcy of the system. So I get that he doesn't want to, but he won't get away with it that easily today. The fact is that if things don't go well with a hospital, you're right to say: we're not going to put money into things that don't go well, you're going to intervene. For this we have an inspection in the Netherlands, which can monitor the quality. We can intervene if there is maladministration; then we need to address and improve that governance. But you put important care, hospital care, of which it is extremely important for a lot of people to be close, on the road. That's what you do, because you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u16	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u17	The question is... You say today that bankruptcies are part of it. That's what I hear you say. You don't think it's desirable, but it can happen; it's part of it. You say that it is part of this and that it is especially important that care stays close. Do you then follow Mr Bruins' reasoning that the hospital is just a pile of stones, or is it a matter of keeping the care close? Because that's what I hear you say today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u18	You are referring to the Minister's reasoning, in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u19	I think I have been very clear: I do not think that bankruptcy is a desirable result at all. But at the Slotervaart hospital, and also at the IJsselmeer hospitals, there is a very long history of problems. It has been saved before, money has been put into it, but that has not helped to sustain that care. Bankruptcy is not a desirable result, but can take place when the business is not financially in order. Then it is crucial to look carefully at how care can be organised. Then we have to go to an organization of care that is sustainable, so that such a hospital does not end up going bankrupt. 'Cause I don't want that at all. I want the care to remain available and accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Rutte spoke about the anxiety of patients and staff about the situation, but said at the same time that he did not really want to discuss the system. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Rutte the following. Isn't the anxiety of patients and staff about the situation caused by the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u21	There are several reasons why bankruptcy should be investigated very carefully, but on the basis of what I know now, I say that it is mainly because of a very bad financial situation, in which, as Mr Kuzu has said, weird things have happened with care money. It just can't be. That is what we need to investigate and then we need to see if we need to take action to prevent it. But let it be clear that even before we had this system, a hospital went bankrupt in the Netherlands. That happened in 1992. In 2001, the Slotervaart hospital also threatened to go bankrupt and again in 2005. It was close. We can have huge discussions here about systems and systems, but I want to talk about how we can ensure that people can continue to rely on good care and that we do not end up in situations like this all the time. This requires good research, and this may require additional measures, which we can come to, but it does not require a complete revolution in health care, because that does not change anything at all at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u22	There is a follow-up question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u23	Then you can do two things. You can run away from the fundamental discussion that it is about, and that is the discussion about the system, because how could it have happened that caretakers, real estate entrepreneurs, have been able to embezzle money and speculate with a hospital, with care for patients and so on? That's really in the essence of the system. Then you can do two things. You can sit back and after the hospital has gone bankrupt, speak shame and understand the concerns of the people and the fear you talked about, or you can intervene early. Why do you not think that there should have been early intervention on the board to prevent bankruptcy? What do you think the Minister should do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr Kuzu acts here against dark financial constructions and other madness. I agree with him; let us be clear about that. But in the Netherlands we have a huge amount of healthcare institutions. They are managed in an extremely good way. Very good care is provided there. If there are any possible constructions that lead to very bad forms of care, the leaking of money and so on, then we need to investigate this very carefully. That's what I'm here for. I'm about to ask the Minister. But that is quite different from saying that it is by definition wrong that we in the Netherlands have a system in which entrepreneurs can also provide care, while they do so in many places in a good way. It shouldn't be. I would like to point out that there are also a lot of places where those entrepreneurs have kept the care, because otherwise it would have disappeared. So it's about doing it in a decent way. Let us therefore investigate these bankruptcies carefully, because I do not think this has gone well. Let us learn from that and then take additional measures, but let us not have a complete system discussion, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u25	Third question by Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u26	The second part of my question to Mr Rutte has not been answered. What could the minister have done prematurely to wallow a bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u27	I've seen the Minister's account of the facts. I think that this question should also be answered by the Minister in a moment's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. I am really very curious about Mr Rutte's opinion. I'll hear from the minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u29	That's good. Mr Rutte has the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u30	But asking questions to the Minister through me is not going to happen. Then you ask me the question. I think it is extremely important that the Health Inspectorate supervises hospitals properly. I have now read the signals that in mid-July it was already known that there were problems, that supervision was also applied. I am also concerned about the fact that, apparently, there was a situation that developed much faster than we had imagined. And I'd like to have that looked into, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u31	I'm standing here on the interrupting microphone because I'm curious as well. Mr Rutte says that these problems have been going on for years, so there have been financial problems for years. Does Mr Rutte not agree with us that this intervention should have taken place years ago? We wouldn't be standing here right now, freaked out about what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u32	Let it be clear that if it is possible to prevent this kind of bankruptcy in a decent way, I am in favour of it. What we have been able to read in all the documents is that these hospitals have been paying attention for years, that there has been a demand for recovery plans, that talks have been made about this, that extra money has been given earlier. Of course, all this happened in the hope that it would work out. So it is not the case that it has already been looked at from a distance by parties saying: let it happen. That didn't happen at all. There has been investment, there has been talk about the question: can it be better, should it be better? It just didn't work out. What scares me is that, despite all these extra efforts, the situation is so bad in the end that, at a furious pace, it is almost bankrupt in a chaotic way. We really need to avoid that towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mrs. Sazias, a second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u34	What I mean is this. Of course the necessary work has been done in the meantime, but all this took place within the walls of the market. My question is this: should not the government, the minister, have acted sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u35	We can have a whole discussion about whether or not it is happening within the market. In 2006 we decided to organise the care differently, because the way people organized it was extremely bad for people. The way care was organized didn't fit in at all with what patients wanted. There were big problems with that, there were long waiting lists. So we've been looking to see if we could do it differently. That can be called market forces, but we have more of a kind of interplay in which providers are given the opportunity to provide care that suits patients' needs. That's the system we have. I believe that the Minister has a responsibility in this too, a system responsibility. He's directing the inspection. The inspection has also been watching. The insurer also has a responsibility here and has tried for years to support the healthcare institutions with financial and other means. That's good, too. But maybe we've been too kind. It could be. That's why I want these bankruptcies investigated very carefully. I want to avoid bankruptcies that have been settled in this way towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u36	I have heard Mr Rutte say a few times that he does not want this chaos to happen again. I'll share that with him. Care is human work and good care has everything to do with the relationship between the doctor and the patient. So, in the worst case scenario, if the situation arises that a hospital should close, then we have to hand over that care very carefully. And you can't do that in a few days. In fact, you can't do that in a week. The question is how much time we need for that. My estimate is that you need at least a few weeks for that. Does Mr Rutte agree with me that, if the situation arises that a hospital should close, we should have at least a few weeks available to pass that care on carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u37	I would very much like us to investigate these bankruptcies very carefully and see how we can avoid the situation we are facing today in the future. That situation is indeed, as Mrs Ellemeet also says, partly chaotic, head-on, taking people to another place and you name it. I have some doubts about Mrs Ellemeet's request, because we can agree on some sort of guarantee here on paper, but if you look at the situation in Slotervaart, it was not the intention to close it down. There the situation turned out to be so bad financially and also ran away employees, who for example had been hired as a zzp'er, that that care could no longer be guaranteed. Then we can agree here that it has to be, but if people are no longer there to deliver it, then it will stop. So let's see how we can anticipate signals much better, much sooner. Then you can also in a controlled way if it really couldn't be otherwise rather not to take off. I am very much in favour of this, but in the situation that has arisen today, a paper reality, a legal reality, could not have guaranteed that care had continued in Slotervaart. That's my belief. So there's some tension in between for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u38	A follow-up question from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u39	The sad reality is that some people left those hospitals because they were no longer paid and they had not been paid for a month or more. The point is that this was at the expense of proper care for the patients. My point is that I think that the government has a responsibility in carefully transferring care if necessary from one hospital to another hospital. It may well be that this means that there should be funding, that there should be a price, but we should be prepared to do so. That we establish with each other that care must be carefully transferred at all times, if that is the case. That it should never be the case that doctors have their hands in their hair because they don't know how to take care of their patients in the future. So my question, again, to Mr Rutte is: does he not agree that it is a matter of principle that we should never allow doctors and patients to get into the situation of having to transfer care within a few days, creating chaos and putting the quality of care at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u40	I totally agree with the latter. That is what I think I have said. I don't want to see this situation again, especially not such a chaotic situation. That's what makes patients suffer. I don't want to. That's got to be controlled, much better. Only the question is how to organise it. How can you prevent that? What signals do you need, what should you know before and what activities do you need to develop? I do think we should be careful what we do. That is why I want these bankruptcies to be examined very thoroughly, in the hope that we will never come to grips with the situation as Mrs Ellemeet has just outlined. This may also require additional measures. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr Rutte is right to say that this is a matter of concern, including the continuation of care and also in the vicinity. What is the desired outcome in this situation, in these two hospitals and different outpatient clinics, when it comes to the continuation of care and also in the vicinity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u42	I cannot outline a 100% picture of 'this is exactly what it looks like', but I hope that we will find ourselves in the situation we have seen elsewhere, where really important care, fundamental care that people often have to use and emergency care is nearby. Then it can certainly be that there are a number of functions less available and that, by doing so, you come up with a sustainable concept that you can, for example, maintain in Flevoland. Because unfortunately, despite additional financial impulses, the current hospital did not last ten years ago. But along that balance. I really hope that parties can board and that we can create a situation in which they can. We have seen that happen in other places, at the Sionsberg we succeeded, in Spijkenisse we succeeded. I really hope for such a scenario and that we can create the conditions for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u43	A follow-up question, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you for that answer. I'm fine with that. More precisely, I also heard Mr Rutte say that a distinction should be made between the context of the Slotervaart hospital and Flevoland, where driving times are longer, where the distance to a next hospital, a subsequent outpatient clinic is much longer and much more complicated, so that care is much further. And that the desired outcome is that at least basic care, acute care is organized nearby. Is there also a political responsibility there? Is there also an opportunity to take on the role of directing as the minister who also writes in his letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u45	I have asked the Minister to make the most of this and to create the conditions within which this can be done. For example, what really helps is that care for a large part is still being continued in Flevoland. Creating the conditions within which that can be done may be important. There is no infinite period in which that can be done. You also need parties that can take over, that have a good story. We don't need an acquiring party to write a story that isn't valid, because then we'll be back here in a couple of years. But in that context, I hope that there will be a real solution. If we can create the conditions for that, I am happy to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Rutte just mentioned the Minister's system responsibility. Does Mr Rutte not agree, with the CDA, that if the minister is responsible for the system, he should have taken much more direction in order to avoid this chaos?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u47	I think we need to learn from what has happened and to investigate these bankruptcies very carefully. Based on what we know, I want to draw conclusions, not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u48	A follow-up question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u49	For me, it is unclear whether this minister has taken sufficient control. Mr. Rutte should be able to make a clear statement about that, as should I. Mr Rutte himself gave a few examples from the past, in which a hospital has been transformed quite differently, without any unrest for the patients, the family members, the carers and the people who work there. So I'd like to know from Mr. Rutte if he thinks it could have been picked up otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mrs Van den Berg herself has already pointed out that we have experienced bankruptcies before, where things have been quieter, where things have been better, and perhaps even more quickly there has been clarity about taking-over parties. That's very helpful. That is not the case here. A more chaotic situation has arisen here. But I find it too easy to say that this would not have happened if the Minister had taken charge of whatever that might be. Let us examine very carefully what has happened here, because I have also seen a lot of things that the Ministry has been involved in, which the inspection has been involved in. He also said that there should be improvement plans. At some point, there was even a need for phasing out plans. Despite these interventions, we have not been able to prevent this chaotic situation. So maybe in some situations more is needed. Let us therefore examine it very carefully, and then draw our conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr. Rutte thinks the abrupt closure of a hospital shouldn't happen again. He proposes to investigate the bankruptcy thoroughly and then to come up with solutions. Does he support a parliamentary inquiry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u52	No, I don't support that. I believe that there should be a very good study by experts at the moment. If we were to conduct a parliamentary inquiry at the moment, we would be failing that kind of investigation. If a very thorough analysis of the bankruptcies shows that there is also a lot of politics going on, then we can do a political investigation, but not now. That's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u53	A follow-up question from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u54	It's certainly not unwise. Mr. Rutte's answer shows exactly what he's doing. For the stage he says he wants an investigation, but when the point comes to shove, he doesn't want the bottom stone to come up. Then he says there's got to be an investigation into the bankruptcies. We in the Chamber have to sit behind the wheel of hospital care, as the minister is not sitting there right now. How can it be that the largest party here in the Chamber does not support a parliamentary inquiry, which wants to leave powerlessness intact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u55	I believe that the people who are now affected by the bankruptcy, from the employees to the people in the region, will not benefit from a political investigation at all. Maybe Mrs. Agema likes that. Then she can shine like a politician. But the point is that this care is well organised. I think that experts on this complex issue really need to do very thorough research. If political conclusions need to be drawn from the research, then we can still conduct a political investigation, but we would like to do so in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u56	Third question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u57	What an insult to the parliamentary means of parliamentary investigation! What a sacrifice of me as a Member of Parliament, as if I wanted to shine over the back of crying people in a hospital square! How does Mr. Rutte get into his head to take words like "shining" in his mouth while his minister drove against a tree, not me! I do propose to hear all those involved, to hear all those who know it and to draw up a report as a Chamber by a very important means that we, as a Chamber, have in our hands: a parliamentary inquiry. Really, Mr. Rutte, shame on you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u58	Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery, I regret to have to ask you to abstain from expressing your agreement or disapproval. That's part of the house rules. You are also welcome, of course, but I have already welcomed you. You may still respond, Mr. Rutte, but there was no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Agema also uses very big words against me. It pretends that a parliamentary inquiry leads to these people, who are now very concerned, being able to get care again. I'm acting against that. I do not disagree at all with Mrs Agema that Parliament can also take its turn, after we have looked very carefully at the situation and if it shows that there really is a need to draw political conclusions, but I would like to do so in that order! Otherwise, all we do in politics is get in the way of the recovery process. That's my belief. Mrs Agema looks very angry at me, but that is why I use these words. I am absolutely convinced that no one has to doubt her involvement in good care, but not now a parliamentary investigation. I just don't think that would be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u60	You want to ask your fourth question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u62	It's okay. You have that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u63	I have not at any time suggested that a parliamentary inquiry could prevent the four hospitals in Flevoland from closing down. I didn't do that, and I don't deserve that reproach. I want a sensible investigation, that we as a Chamber take control of the wheel, because the Minister has driven without control against a tree. That's what happened last week. I hear Mr Rutte here in his contribution asking critical questions about the driving time of ambulances. My question to him is very specific: should the hospitals in Flevoland remain open?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u64	I've been very clear about that. I think it is extremely important that good care remains close to the people in Flevoland. That could be in a slightly different form than it is now, but I do think it is relevant and extremely important that this good care remains available close by. I think I'm clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u65	No, Mr. Chairman, I'll be right back. I get to use all six of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u66	You can use all six of them, I'm sure. This is the fifth. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u67	"Good care in the vicinity" is such a death doer! It's such an official standard line that we always hear from the Minister. But if these hospital locations disappear, there will be a situation of maximum driving times. So you can't be in the hospital in 15 minutes or 20 minutes, no, it'll take 45 minutes straight away! There is immediately a situation that is worrying, that people from Urk, for example, have to go to Hoorn, at the sharpest of the 45 minutes cut! Surely it can't be that we in this country risk taking 45 minutes to reach a hospital? In a province as central as Flevoland, can't you let that happen as a VVD? Then there's no use in official standard phrases like "care in the vicinity." My question to Mr. Rutte was: do the four hospitals in Flevoland remain open? Does this prevent the VVD from having maximum driving times? And does he think that in Flevoland the driving times should be average?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u68	I think I have already made it clear in my speech that I am also concerned about the 45-minute standard. You can peel that all the way off. Well, then you'll formally have a maximum ride-on time, but I really don't think that's enough. You're really gonna have to take care closer, organize more close to people. Look at what happened in the Sionsberg in Dokkum, for example. There, a great deal of care has been preserved for people. I'm happy about that. Look at what came back after the bankruptcy of the Ruigaard van Putten Hospital in Spijkenisse. A lot of good care for people has been kept close, in a hospital that now has a real future perspective. In a different form, but really with a future perspective. That is why I say: it is a matter of good concern to me. It can be done very well in the locations where it is taking place. To be honest, I hope so, too. That feels the closest. It may also be in a slightly different form, but it's not without obligation what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u69	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u70	You're finishing with your final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u71	Yeah, I'm finishing with my sixth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u72	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u73	The situation in Flevoland is something else than with the Ruigaard van Putten and the Sionsberg. We are talking about four sickhouse locations in one province, which, if they disappear or disappear, directly create the situation of these maximum driving times. And my question was so simple and so easy to answer yes or no: do the hospitals in Flevoland remain open as far as the VVD is concerned, as Mr Wilders said so clearly in 2003?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u74	I was pleased that immediately after the sad report on the bankruptcy of the IJsselmeer hospitals, very specific parties were reporting for parts or perhaps for all parts of the hospital. For example, the hospital in Sneek has said that they even want to build new ones in Emmeloord, that they want to do more there. I think it is extremely important for the Minister to create a situation in which parties can join in in order to continue this concern as much as possible. But I'd like to be in a viable model, so we won't be back here in five years' time and in ten years' time. It has to be done in a way that ensures that good care can be provided in Flevoland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u75	Then Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr President. It was a dramatic week for the people in Amsterdam Nieuw-West, the patients and the workers in the Slotervaart hospital, and the same of course applies to the people in Flevoland. With that in our memory, how does Mr Rutte look at the role of health insurers in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u77	I think that if we're gonna investigate these bankruptcies, that's one of the important parts to get out there. It is true that we have seen in the facts of the Minister's report and above all in the Silver Cross report that the insurer, Silver Cross, has always made great efforts to keep things going and to think about a controlled phasing-out plan. There has therefore been an absolute effort. The question is whether that was enough or whether it should have been otherwise, should have been better. I would like to learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u78	Follow-up question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u79	I think that's what we all want, and we're going to hear it from the Minister. In that light: who is actually about the hospitals and who is about caring for the patients? Is that the health insurance company or is that the minister? For Mr Rutte refers to their two facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u80	They're both responsible, but in a slightly different way. The Minister has a system responsibility, so it must ensure that the whole system continues to function properly. The obligation of care, the obligation to organise good quality care for every insured person at a travelable distance, lies with the insurer. That is precisely why this insurer has such great interference and has financed it in the other years. But is that enough, or can that be even smarter and better? This has done much better with previous sad bankruptcies than with this one. I really want to learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u81	Follow-up question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yes, please, Mr. Chairman. I live in Amsterdam Nieuw-West. My family and I have been able to take advantage of the good care of the Slotervaart for 23 years, and this system of responsibility of the Minister has not been of any use to us in the past week. The minister was there and he looked at it. Does Mr Rutte agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u83	Honesty dictates that the Slotervaart hospital has a huge history of financial problems. It's been going back a long time. When it was a municipal hospital, there were huge financial problems. Then it was self-destruct and there were big problems. In 2001, there was a threat of bankruptcy. At that time, some public money was put in place. In 2005 it was actually bankrupt and in a miraculous way an investor came again. Now, unfortunately, this bankruptcy is developing. I think that we really need to learn from this bankruptcy which has led to such a chaotic state of affairs, but the question remains whether we could have kept the hospital in the form it was in. I also doubt whether the Minister as a system administrator could have done that. I'm not going to anticipate conclusions, but probably phasing out was the only option. And if it is to take place, it would be much more controlled than it is now. Let's learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u84	A follow-up question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u85	Then we also move to Flevoland, because there the people are equally worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u86	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u87	In this light, the system of responsibility of the Minister has not been of any use to those people in the past week. There too, the minister stood there and looked at it. Does Mr Rutte agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u88	No, I disagree with Mrs Ploumen. The Minister's story of the facts shows something else. There has been much earlier interference from the inspection and there have been incentives to make other plans, partly phased out. All this was not allowed to benefit, that is something else. There has been a scenario that went much faster than we've wanted with each other, which was much more chaotic. That's something we need to learn from. Haven't there been signs much earlier that we should anticipate? Let us examine this carefully and then look here in the Chamber, but first let the Ministry do so, let us do what additional measures are necessary to prevent these situations in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u89	Your fifth question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u90	My fifth and last question here. There is chaos in a system, in a system. Then it is up to the person responsible for that system to prevent the chaos from arising, b if something happens unexpectedly, to ensure that chaos is managed, and c to ensure that patients and employees are not affected. So then the Minister here has only let that system responsibility go a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u91	The Minister has taken steps. We have all been able to read that in the facts. It alone has not been able to prevent this situation. Unfortunately, we've been through hospitals bankruptcies before. In doing so, things were much more orderly, much quieter. The question is: were there really any clues that it would end the way it ended now, something we all don't want? For that, we really need to investigate these bankruptcies specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Rutte has rightly paid a great deal of attention to the chaotic way in which the bankruptcy of these hospitals took place and the unrest that that gave rise to. In this context, what is his response to what the health insurance provider indicates in the fact sheet, namely: we are not allowed to make a detailed emergency plan, because that is contrary to competition and the like?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u93	Yeah, I tripped on that comment, too. He surprised me. There is competition, but the Authority Consumer & Market has already said that agreements may be made if they are in the interest of maintaining good care. I think these kinds of arrangements fit right here. Let us take that into account in what we want to investigate, but it would at least be good if there were a further clarification on this point. 'Cause I doubt that's true. Nor should it be the case that there is any legal embarrassment with insurers, or that they think that this is the way it should be done. So let's clear that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u94	Follow-up question by Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u95	Good to hear. That is what Mr Rutte also says: if it turns out that the rules are in the way, then we should also amend them. So that's good to hear. Then there is the question of how to proceed. That's what a number of interruptions were about. Mr Rutte himself indicated that he has doubts about this model approach when you are just at the edge of the driving time. But doesn't that mean that you can't just miss clinical obstetrics in Lelystad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u96	There's no way to rule that out, let me put it this way. And what exactly is the relationship, how the care should be arranged later, I do not want to anticipate that entirely. But I have also made a very specific point about the mere use of the 45 minute standard. That's a bald concept that doesn't do justice to what people need to care. To be honest, I'm also wondering if you could explain the duty of care so narrowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u97	Finally, Mr President. The problems are most acute in the most eccentric area of Urk. It would mean a real doubling of travel time, including for obstetrics. Does this mean that Mr Rutte also says that he would not find it acceptable if the edges of those 45 minutes had to be looked up? The question is whether all of this is actually feasible. The effect of this is perhaps that more hospital births are already needed preventively because it is simply no longer guaranteed in the neighbourhood, making home births very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u98	I'll choose my own words for that. "Unacceptable" is always a very heavy term. "Not desired" is a milder form of it, but still very firm. Of course, it is not for nothing that I ask the Minister to make every effort to ensure that good care is given nearby, that there is room for that, that parties are given the opportunity to step in and to organise care close to people. That's what I want in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mrs Ellemeet still has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u100	We have a number of formal criteria for defining the duty of care. The driving time is one of them. We know that there are other things in Flevoland, in Lelystad and surroundings. There are people who, for example, do not have a car and have to take the bus to the hospital. If the hospital in Lelystad falls away or some of the facilities in that hospital disappear, it can mean that people have to travel by bus for an hour and a half before they get to the hospital. It can also play a part in the fact that the amount for that transportation for some people is just a lot of money, especially if you often have to visit your mother or your father or your child in the hospital. Does Mr Rutte agree with me that these elements that really come from practice, from people's lives, should be included in the decision on which facilities should or should not stay in Lelystad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u101	It is precisely because of that kind of thing that I think it is so important that the Minister should make an effort to provide space so that care can be kept organized nearby. That is really very important in the polder. I get there a lot. Then you see the thin infrastructure, not only in terms of care, but also in terms of roads. Distances are large, especially if you have a small scholarship and if you rely on public transport. The things Mrs Ellemeet says are just right. That's why the concerns are so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u102	There's another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u103	That's good to hear. Then we'll share it. The inhabitants of Lelystad and its surroundings are also very clear. They state very clearly that clinical obstetrics is extremely important to them. If they don't have them directly in the area, it could just mean that people can't have them at home, because they can't go to the hospital in a short time if something is threatening to go wrong. The same applies to emergency care. I therefore interpret Mr Rutte's words in such a way that, with the inhabitants of Lelystad and the surrounding area, he believes that these facilities should also remain in the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u104	I believe that adequate care provision should remain close to people, with a truly good quality of care and also at a travelable distance. I believe that we must make an effort to do this. In the end, that's what I want to work for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr Rutte has not yet continued his speech, since he has another question from Mrs Marijnissen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u106	I have been listening to Mr Rutte's answers to all the questions for about half an hour now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u107	Big shots.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u108	That's right. The outcome is sad. My question to Mr Rutte is: isn't he a little embarrassed? The VVD is the biggest party here. The VVD has been at the helm for years. The VVD is the one that supplies the minister. Since today we know that it is also the VVD that has no answer. She has no answer for the people who are here. She has no answer for the more than 30,000 people who signed the petition. She doesn't have a single answer for all those Dutch people who are worried about which hospital might be next that could go bankrupt. Because the minister stands by and looks at it. He's not gonna intervene. You refer to the system, which you have organised yourself, and then you say: in that system, this minister is no longer responsible for hospitals. How is that possible? We have a minister who is not responsible for the hospitals, a minister who can't and doesn't want to intervene when things really go wrong and it's chaos trumps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u109	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u110	Mr. Rutte, aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u111	Well, that's a clear question. Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u112	I have never heard such a bad summary of my words as Mrs Marijnissen's. Mrs Marijnissen only says what she wants to hear, but does not say what I said. I have said that I am very concerned about the proximity of care, particularly in Flevoland, and that I think it is crucial for all of these people, even as they are sitting here today, to remain close to care and for the Minister to create the conditions within which that can be done. That is a very different story than Mrs Marijnissen says. Mrs Marijnissen would very much like to hear that. It's up to her, but it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u113	A follow-up question for Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u114	It is not my concern at all where Mr Rutte's concern lies. Ammehula, I'd like to say. We all have that concern here; everyone has it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u115	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u116	It is clear that that concern is there. My question was what your solution is. You are the largest party here, you are at the helm for years and you deliver the minister, but you have no solution. That's why I asked you, aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u117	No, the question was: what is the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mrs Marijnissen immediately stood at Achmea's sidewalk to preach again for a ZorgFonds. My question to Mrs Marijnissen would be: is that ZorgFonds a solution? Would the Health Fund have said "here, please, money" at those bankrupt hospitals with bad governance? No, of course not. Of course not. This creates a situation that nobody wants, namely a bankruptcy of hospitals. That is not something we want, but it can happen if financial management is poor for a long time. I want us to look very carefully at how we can prevent this in the future. I think it is extremely important that we continue to organise good care closely. If Mrs Marijnissen pretends that she has a solution in which this would never happen, at least I have not heard it, not in a credible way. But she shouldn't attack me for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u119	You are putting your next question to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u120	Actually, no, Mr. Chairman, because I'm being asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u121	Well, actually, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u122	Then I disagree, because Mr. Rutte is asking me a question. I think I have to answer that, because there are quite a lot of blames in it. 1. Yes, I did have that solution, namely to cut off your so-called caretakers from care. We don't want a care where you make a profit or a care where hospitals go bankrupt. 2. Mr Rutte does not answer my question. My question is: what is your solution? You can't give people a guarantee today, and the worst part is that you don't want to give people a guarantee that those hospitals will stay open. You're hiding behind beautiful policy language. You may be able to do that here today, but that doesn't help the people at home, the people in the stands and all those people who signed the petition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u123	The crucial thing is that people can make use of good care nearby. Is that policy language? I have given examples of what happened in the Sionsberg. Good care is still close by. I'm excited about that. I'm excited about what happened in Spijkenisse. That's another sustainable concept. That hospital was absolutely not allowed to fail from the SP, but there is now a sustainable concept towards the future. I can take you to my own region. I'm gonna do that now, Mr. Chairman, because I can't escape it. In that region, hospitals in Delfzijl and Winschoten realised in good time that the way in which they had organised care in two locations, in old buildings, was not sustainable and had to be different. I would very much like to move towards a future in which we can signal with each other much earlier: this cannot be done in the current way; let us organise it differently. That worked out in Groningen. There's a shiny new hospital in Scheemda. That's beautifully organized. That's what we've been all the trouble for. That, too, is very important to me. Let us learn from bankruptcy, let us come to agreements that will prevent this from happening again in the future, but let us not all play political and system games here. That doesn't make anyone any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mrs Marijnissen keeps the last question. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u125	That a system discussion would be a political game... This is what I think is a political game! The moment you reduce the foundation of this discussion to a political game, you are engaged in a game. Let's take an example. Mr Rutte often talks about good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u126	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u127	What if your abdominal artery collapsed? Do you have to sit in an ambulance for 45 minutes to drive to the hospital? Is that good care according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u128	I think I have made it very clear that if you are just going to set up the care along the 45 minute standard, that is far too thin and too little for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u129	Enough? This appears to be the case. Mr Rutte then continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr. Chairman. I think I have had so much room in all the interruptions that I do not necessarily have to finish my entire text. What I didn't get to, but what I've just been able to tell you is that I really think we need to learn from these particular bankruptcies. You don't want bankruptcies. You don't want bankruptcies. You don't want bankruptcies. Sometimes you can prevent them. I gave the example of the Ommelander Hospital in Groningen, which really ensures that in Noordoost-Groningen, which is also an area with a thin care infrastructure, care can stay well secured for a long time. I'm excited about that. But I also think that if the financial situation is really bad for a long time and bankruptcy cannot be prevented, we need to anticipate and anticipate much sooner. I want to learn from that. I do not want to see this situation again, so that we can continue to ensure good care for everyone close by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Lord Rutte. I call Mrs van den Berg. It shall speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr. Chairman. We are very shocked that the Slotervaart hospital and the IJsselmeer hospitals should close. This is very bad for the patients, who are suddenly transferred to another hospital, but also for family members and carers, who have to go to another hospital, and for the people who work there and suddenly lose their jobs. We would also like to express our admiration for the people who work there and for what they have done for the patients, but all this should have been avoided. Will the Minister now take the lead and make sure this can't happen again? And is he also going to involve regional directors and patient associations? Last night we received the answers to the questions the CDA had asked. It is not clear from the facts what the role of shareholders has been and what has happened with all the money in recent years. Mr. Chairman. In Article 13, fifth paragraph of the Health Insurance Act, I quote: "When an insured person has started treatment, he is entitled to continue it, even if the health insurance provider terminates the agreement with the healthcare provider. How is that right secured now? We hear that there is no overcapacity at all in other hospitals and that patients are on waiting lists. There is talk of a start-up for the IJsselmeer hospitals. The CDA is very much in favour of this, because the inhabitants of the Lelystad-Urk region and the Noordoostpolder region also deserve close care, especially when it comes to emergency basic care and acute obstetrics. Urk has the highest birth rate in the Netherlands and many vulnerable elderly people live in Flevoland with chronic problems, who often need hospital care. Flevoland is also a growing region. Care is supposed to grow and not shrink. Does the Minister agree that the maintenance of at least these functions is necessary for the viability and development of the region? And does the Minister share that while the 45-minute standard is still being met, for a large number of residents driving times are becoming critical? What is the assessment of the quality of care that remains if hospital care in Lelystad were to disappear? I see Mrs Marijnissen standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u133	Yes. Have you completed this theme more or less?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u134	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u135	Then this is the time for Mrs Marijnissen's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u136	Of course, we know the CDA as a party that always claims to be tough on the hospitals in the region. I therefore believe that this is also an important debate for the CDA today. I heard Mrs van den Berg use the words that have been used so often by Mr Rutte: we are very close to being concerned. I ask Mrs van den Berg whether this means that she has already given up these hospitals and that she actually accepts that these hospitals will be closed because they are bankrupt. Or does Mrs Van den Berg agree with us that we must do everything we can to keep these hospitals open?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u137	A clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u138	We believe that care should remain in the region, also nearby. As I have just pointed out, this means that we believe that hospital care should be maintained in Lelystad, because there are a lot of elderly people with chronic diseases and many vulnerable elderly people there, and in Urk there is obstetrics. I just turned that in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mrs Van den Berg continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr. Chairman. The inspection noted in 2009 that for recovery and survival in a number of conditions, such as heart failure, it is highly desirable to keep run-on times short. Hence my question again. The continued existence of hospital care was then considered necessary. If the Minister doesn't think so now, what has changed? How does the Minister direct to make the start a success? In the meantime, how does the Minister ensure continuity and maintenance of care at the IJsselmeer hospitals and how does he ensure that staff do not leave at this uncertain stage? How is it guaranteed that electronic medical records will be kept in the event of bankruptcy and that they will also remain available for treatment? And how does the Minister ensure that both bankruptcies keep as much of the money and capital as possible in the care? What role does the College Sanitation Care Institutions play in this? Mr. Chairman. The situation around the IJsselmeer hospitals is acute, but unfortunately not unique. Healthcare is under pressure in several regions of the Netherlands. In recent months, negative reports have followed on the closure of hospital wards, general practitioners and emergency services outside the Randstad. In the interests of the viability of the region, we need to strengthen basic care there. The CDA believes that all residents of the Netherlands are entitled to good care, which is available, affordable and accessible. We really need to take more action on this. I therefore announced an own-initiative paper during the budget debate. We want to work to ensure that we do not get a country with two kinds of care: Randstadzorg and regional care. Good care should be available, affordable and accessible to all residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u141	Last question from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I very much agree with Mrs van den Berg on the latter. But in the light of that, how does she look at the last week? Did the Minister use the instruments he has? Shouldn't he have more instruments? In short, the CDA must also look at this with great care and dissatisfaction and then I express myself mildly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u143	That's right. We are very unhappy in this sense, and that is a weak expression of the chaos that arose last week. According to our information, and also if we look at other examples, that has been solved differently in the past. We are also very surprised at Silver Cross' remark of "I could not make an emergency plan," because you simply cannot do this to people; not the patients, not the family members and caregivers, nor the people who work there. But we believe that within the current system the Minister can take much more direction, and also has instruments at his disposal such as the availability contribution, which he can make much more use of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u144	Mrs Van den Berg continues her speech. Oh, no, one second. Mr. Kuzu, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. We just saw a lot of crocodile tears at the VVD. I see less crocodile tears at the CDA, and that's fine with me. If Mrs Van den Berg states that she thinks that the Minister should take more direction, does she agree with me that the Minister has taken too little direction in the run-up to bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u146	Well, that's one of the things we'd like to get out of the table: what exactly happened when, and when exactly was the Minister informed about certain points? We have had a brief overview of the last few days, but it is important that we can also get it back: so what the Healthcare Authority has done and what the inspection has done, and whether there should not have been a call from that side much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u147	Last question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u148	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u149	No? You're gonna owe it to me. Mrs Van den Berg continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u150	Mr. President, I was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u151	You've finished it? Thank you very much. Mr Van der Staaij has the floor. He speaks for the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr. Chairman. For some time now, it has been heavy weather for the hospitals which have now been declared bankrupt, but this was a very unexpected situation. No thunderstorm in the clear sky, but suddenly a lightning strike was made so it was experienced that the bankruptcy of the hospitals was pronounced and extremely unfortunate, undesirable, miserable situations arose for the patients, for the people who worked there, for the whole area. Our feeling about this, and our judgment still is: this cannot be done, what happened here. In fact, this has to do with the inevitability of people, pregnant women, literally on their way to the hospital and heard: no, that is bankrupt; you have to go somewhere else right now. Why, if it was necessary, wasn't there a much better preparation? In the interrupting debates, it just came out that the health insurance provider does not think it is allowed to draw up a detailed emergency plan. I would very much like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. After all, it would be extremely undesirable if the interests of competition were better enshrined in the law than the interests of patients. And it's these patients who are getting so hurt right now. We also heard it this morning when we handed over the petition from the people who advocate the preservation of the hospital in Lelystad. They said: each time you realize more what the effects actually are. We also heard it from Urk, for example, that at the very edge of the area has to do with double travel times for obstetrics. If you have to go to Sneek or Harderwijk, the next step may be to say that this is actually not justified and that it is therefore not justified to give birth at home. People have to go to a hospital a long way in advance. Then we'll really affect that freedom of choice. Mr. Chairman. I would also very much like to hear the Minister's answer to the question as to why it has become such chaos. Why did this become such a mess? The point of the insurer has just been made. But I also have a question about the NZa's oversight. Isn't that the kind of person who's there to supervise the health insurance company? So in this case, how has that role been fulfilled by the Dutch Healthcare Authority? Mr. Chairman. Then the Minister's own directing role. A minister can of course also... That was also apparent from the facts. This minister said to the Westfriesgasthuis and the health insurance company on 26 October: this has become a sensitive hospital for certain functions, so a department cannot close here. Those are the possibilities he has. Why didn't that happen for the clinical obstetrics and emergency services in Lelystad? Is the situation that has arisen, in which people are faced with such great distances, not also contrary to the patient care that we want? Mr. Chairman. Then I go to the question of what needs to be done next. It's good to learn from what went wrong here. I agree with Mrs Agema that Parliament also has an additional role in this, to control itself, for example through interrogations, what went wrong here. But the question to the Minister is: how is care for the future now guaranteed? What will happen immediately for the area in question? The SGP Group is also of the opinion that there should be a start on IJsselmeer hospitals. Because there is a difference between Slotervaart and what hospital care is available in that region and in the Flevopolder. We therefore also call for the IJsselmeer hospitals to be restarted, specifically including clinical obstetrics and emergency services. They can't be missed in that area. I ask the Minister to stand up for this and to be extremely critical of the fact that there is no margin of collision with all kinds of theoretical models. Everyone can feel on their clogs that you are not going to make it in that whole area, with the traffic crowds. Then we would really have an unacceptable decline in hospital care in the Flevopolder, the municipality of Noordoostpolder and the municipality of Urk. We ask the Minister to stand up for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u153	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mrs Ploumen has the floor. She speaks for the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr. Chairman. Thursday 25 October: two hospitals are bankrupt. That's why we need to shut them down. In one day the Slotervaart hospital and part of the Zuiderzee Hospital must be evacuated. Patients are rightly devastated: where should they go? Are their appointments still going through? What happens to the medical records anyway? Staff members are right to be sad and angry. Their hospital, where they worked with such pleasure and where they work with heart and soul for their patients, is suddenly closed. Mr. Chairman. And what did the minister do? What was the Minister doing when it appeared long ago that the hospitals were in heavy weather? The Financieele Dagblad wrote that already on its front page on 9 July 2018. What did the Minister do when Achmea and ING had to defer payment to hospitals all this summer? What did the Minister do when he was confronted with the imminent postponement of payment on 18 October? What did the minister do when the hospitals went bankrupt last week? Mr. Chairman. The minister didn't do much. Like an ostrich, he stuck his head in the sand instead of taking the direction vigorously. That also shows the fact story we received yesterday. When did the minister come to the surface? A day after it was declared bankrupt. While desperate staff and patients no longer knew what to do, the Minister reduced them to a pile of stones in a press conference. Then he put his head back in the sand, because now he's waiting for the curator. And the Chamber should trust him to keep a close eye on everything. But that's not enough for the PvdA. That's not enough when doctors in the daily newspaper say it's literally "one big mess." That's not enough when people are in deep uncertainty about what's so important, a good health care for yourself and the people around you. That brings me to the following questions. 1. When was the Minister first informed by the health insurance provider that the situation in the Zuiderzee group was difficult? 2. What alternatives have been discussed with the Slotervaart hospital, for example when it comes to slow phasing-out? Have these also been discussed with the Minister before the health insurance company took the decision or is this entirely outside the Minister's scope? 3. What exactly does shutting down the hospitals mean for the patients? Is the Minister prepared to draw up a number of cases for a number of patients, such as midwife care, chronic patients and transgenders, about what is changing for them now that hospitals are bankrupt? 4. The solution now proposed for care in Flevoland is half-baked. Thought from the system and not from what it takes for the people there. Can the Minister indicate how he and not the health insurance provider are going to ensure a proper distribution of care? What instruments does he have for this? And if he doesn't have it, how is he gonna change the law to get it? 5. Does the minister think the health insurance company made the right decision? Should the Silver Cross have had alternatives and the decision should have been discussed with him first? Could it have been otherwise? According to the Minister, should it have been different? 6. What has been the role of the NZa in the control of hospitals? When did they get involved? 7. Who in the Netherlands is talking about hospitals, the minister or the health insurance company? 8. Who in the Netherlands deals with the distribution of care, the minister or the health insurance provider? 9. How is the Minister going to prevent this from happening again? How does the Minister see the position of Dutch hospitals now show that another 14 are in trouble? What is his view on hospital care in the Netherlands? 10. Doctors at the Slotervaart hospital indicate that patients are at risk due to the sudden closure. How is the Minister going to help patients in making the directors of the Slotervaart hospital liable? 11. How is it that a hospital hasn't been in order for so many years in a row without being able to intervene vigorously? Can the Minister explain why he thinks the current system is satisfactory, when such a mess has arisen? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u155	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Mr Segers has the floor and he is speaking on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Tuesday, the Slotervaart hospital and the IJsselmeer hospital requested a delay in payment and two days later, bankruptcy was a fact. What followed was a chaotic situation. Chaos for patients, chaos for employees but also an administrative chaos, because it seems like no one had seen this coming. The board of the hospital board doesn't, the supervisory board doesn't, the health insurance company doesn't, nor the minister. The bankruptcy of the two hospitals and associated outpatient clinics is a serious blow for the 2,000 employees who have worked with heart and soul for patients, but certainly also for patients who feel emotionally involved in their hospital. And then it's extra gruesome that the Slotervaart hospital had to be evacuated so quickly. After closing the obstetrics department in Lelystad, there was a pregnant woman with 10 centimeters of dilation at the door. Fortunately there was another gynecologist present, but you shouldn't think about what would have happened if it hadn't been there. There was no mention at all of a "careful phasing-out" phase, which the Minister mentioned in his letters from last week. There have been concerns about both hospitals for a long time: about business operations and about the dependence on expensive external hire. In July the hospitals had to draw up continuity plans for the inspection, and on 6 August the IJsselmeer hospitals were placed under enhanced supervision. So the inspection was on top of it. How then is it that the Minister did not see this coming, and that the resolution took place so messy and so abruptly? How does the insurer's duty of care relate to the responsibility of the government to monitor the quality and safety of care? Was there any contact between the health insurance company and the inspection in the summer, also to ensure that any phasing-out scenarios would be conducted carefully? And what system errors have come to light with this? What lessons can we learn from this? That is an important question for those responsible for the system: the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Now that the worst dust has descended, the question arises: how? For the patients of the Slotervaart hospital there are sufficient alternatives in the region of Amsterdam. But what about the 1,200 employees? Is there a social plan? How are they escorted to other jobs? Then I am talking not only about the doctors and nurses, but also about the support staff. Fortunately, in Flevoland the hospital and emergency services remain open, but the obstetrics department was suddenly closed. Can the Minister promise that he will table with all the parties concerned to ensure continuity of care in the IJsselmeer hospitals? I'm getting signals that surrounding hospitals, for example, regularly have recording stops in obstetrics. It shouldn't be the case that midwifes have to learn from pregnant women. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group wants the current situation to be used to carefully explore all possibilities. There are several providers who are interested in taking over hospital care in Flevoland, but instead of letting the offer of providers lead, the region needs to be looked at first. The Minister also indicated that he would like to take a look at the social situation and the health situation in the region. I'd like an explanation of that. As far as my group is concerned, account is taken of the large population of the elderly and chronically ill in the Lelystad region, but also of the large number of people with low financial capacity. Moreover, Urk has the highest birth rate in the Netherlands. That too is a factor to be taken into account. Furthermore, care-avoidance is lurking, if care is offered further away. These factors must all be taken into account. In 2008, a predecessor of this minister indicated that the specific geographical location of the hospital in Lelystad is highly desirable and necessary for the region concerned to have a basic hospital with acute care. In particular, access to midwife care was then called "careful." Moreover, the Minister acknowledged that care is very important for this region, given its population. The driving times are already very tight and are only getting longer. In addition, there are now too few ambulances to accommodate longer driving times. And you shouldn't think about what happens if that famous bridge is open or if there's traffic. I would therefore ask the Minister, together with the parties concerned, to examine the possibilities for maintaining acute care in Lelystad. I say immediately: I understand that the reality of 2018 is a different reality than that of 2008. The last thing we need to want is to be here in a few years' time debating a new bankruptcy. So we need to look at a sustainable solution, learning from the mistakes of the past ten years, but also from the experiences elsewhere, such as in the Sionsberg in Dokkum, where more and a half-line care has been provided. Over the past few years, the transition from second to first line is getting more and more steamy, and the bankruptcy in Flevoland is also an opportunity to further shape this transition. It is about the right care in the right place with attention to specific characteristics of the region. Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to call on the Minister, although he is not the first move now, to use his direction. Now let's carefully examine all the serious start-up options for the IJsselmeer hospital before a decision is made. Patients' organisations and local authorities need to be properly involved in this. In the meantime, let us guarantee the continuity of care, so that people continue to receive the care they are entitled to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u157	Thank you, Mr Segers. Mrs Ellemeet has the floor. She speaks for GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ignorance: that is the word that probably sums up people's emotions about the bankruptcies of hospitals most strikingly. Incomprehension of the fact that a public facility like a hospital literally falls away from one day to the next. I don't understand the fact that we don't hear from the health insurance company who pulled the plug for days. Incomprehension of the fact that the Minister also remains silent for a while and then, when he says something, says that he is not about it. Incomprehension of the fact that there have long been abuses in the administration, that caregivers have not been paid out for a long time and that all those responsible feel surprised by the situation. Mr. Chairman. This is not how we deal with the care, the patients and the people who work in the care. The question arises as to how it could have happened that we need to talk about accidents in health care. In the meantime, we're tripping over the analysis. We will have to try to get to the heart of the matter, with an open mind and without prejudice to what has happened and how we want it to be different. What went wrong? In order to answer that question honestly, the Minister must come out of his ideological groove, in which nothing but good can be said about the way in which we have now organised the care. Mr. Chairman. I notice a number of things. First of all, health insurers do not appear to be able to achieve the desired change at Slotervaart and the IJsselmeer hospitals through their contracts with these hospitals. Contract agreements should be the instrument in this system to reform care so that it gets better, but the fact is that the negotiation game is a sham: a limited number of large health insurers face a limited number of large hospitals and the desired changes are hardly off the ground. In the case of the Slotervaart hospital, the hospital administrators and the health insurance company have willingly taken high risks, too high risks, by agreeing too low rates. This is how the game is played and it is very doubtful whether this will benefit the care. Meanwhile, the owners of the hospital provided loans to their own hospital at an interest rate of 7%, were employed per person for 1.5 fte at their own hospitals for a generous salary and there were smart constructions with companies that received assignments, in which they also had an interest. Mr. Chairman. I have the following questions for the Minister. The Minister has reported several times that he also only heard about the bankruptcy last week, but did he not know before that it did not look rosy at all at these hospitals? Couldn't he have already had a conversation with those directly involved about how to prevent chaos and panic? I'd like a response. Does the Minister with GroenLinks believe that the chaos that has arisen in these bankruptcies should never happen again? Can the Minister examine the possibility of appointing a director to demonstrably maladministration in a hospital in order to prevent bankruptcy? We have also created this possibility in education. I'd like a response. Is the Minister prepared, in the most extreme case, in which a hospital bankruptcy seems inevitable, to guarantee a reasonable transition period together with the health insurers, so that transfer can take place with care? Wouldn't it be wise if VWS and health insurance companies had a crisis budget available for this? I'd like a response. Can the Minister examine whether the rules on joint and several liability in the event of maladministration in a hospital can be adapted so that they can be applied in practice, not only in the case of an e.g. but also in the case of a foundation? For maladministration can take place in all forms. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two more things. The Slotervaart had as its only hospital a separate department for vulnerable elderly people, a separate clinical ward where the geriatric was the main caretaker. All disciplines were interspersed in the care of these vulnerable elderly people. This was, among other things, important for older people with a migrant background, an extra vulnerable group. These people, these elderly people, aren't quick to go to the barricades to demand the continuity of their care, but they are entitled to it. Does the Minister share the opinion of GroenLinks that this care for vulnerable elderly people that we had so well organized at the Slotervaart hospital, in full with the full funding available for it, can be transferred to another hospital, and of course preferably in the same neighborhood where the elderly live? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. My final point is about the hospital in Lelystad. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, hospital care should remain accessible to everyone in Lelystad and should not depend on the size of your wallet. That is what is likely to happen now if we continue to organise care. Then people with their own transport must continue to travel, people who often do not have their own car. That is why I ask the Minister to include this practical situation in the consideration of which hospital care should all remain available in Lelystad. The inhabitants of Lelystad and surroundings have spoken very loudly and clearly. They need close obstetrics care and acute care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u159	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Mrs Sazias has the floor. She speaks on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mr. Chairman. What a tragedy! Hospitals that have fallen, workers and patients on the street, 180,000 people in Flevoland without any immediate care. And those are mostly seniors and chronically ill. Since the answer to the oral questions yesterday, I have not been able to sleep with amazement. This minister, who says he stands for the continuity of care, has not seen this blow coming, and this while there have been problems with these hospitals for years. In 2008 the IJsselmeer hospitals were already falling down. Minister Bruins' predecessor, Ab Klink, stated that this was a system hospital and approved a support package of EUR 30 million. The money from that package could not be repaid, for example to the municipality of Lelystad. So those signals are really years old. From when did the minister know there were major problems at these hospitals? In August, the MC IJsselmeer hospitals were placed under enhanced supervision by the IGJ, because there was insufficient confidence in an improvement process. What are we supposed to imagine in this enhanced supervision and what does the IGJ do with the proceeds of that supervision? Have any actions been taken or is the IGJ still writing a report? And what did the Minister do with those signals at the time? But at least now it's too late. While the calf is lying dead at the bottom of the well, the Minister sets up a crisis team. And what does the crisis team do? Mrs Marijnissen has already shown him: that is what the directors send the prepared handout for bankruptcies in the care. Yeah, that'll do you good! The hospitals are bankrupt and this minister says with his hands in the air that his role is limited because the market is about this. But that can't be true, can it? You can't explain to people that the banks are being held up with tax money and the hospitals aren't? You can't explain that because it's not right. And yesterday the minister said he'd never heard of the term "system hospital." No, they're talking about a "sensitive hospital" right now. What exactly does that term mean? It has to do with the 45 minutes driving time, but I think that the coverage in the region should mean more. See here the nodes caused by market forces in care. Market and care, those two concepts don't match. Mr. Chairman. A hospital is not a company you can manage as a company with a price fighter strategy. And cooperation in care, of the utmost importance for the quality of care, is absolutely not going to work from the point of view of competitiveness. How is it that it is ultimately the health insurance companies that are about the survival of a hospital? Mr. Chairman. Large, sensitive hospitals can offer discounts to insurers for which smaller hospitals are not eligible, while those smaller hospitals with less income need discounts more. What are the conditions for an availability contribution, by the way? Has it ever been paid out and when does a hospital qualify for this? Wasn't that supposed to apply to the IJsselmeer hospital? This market system is forcing the smaller hospitals out of the market and that is precisely the hospitals that provide important care in the region. 50PLUS wants a broad vision on hospital care, on excellent, specialized care and on basic hospital care. As far as we are concerned, these are two different networks, of which the basic hospital care should have good coverage in this country. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, that's not 45 minutes away. We also remain of the opinion that the cabinet has transferred its care tasks far too much to the market and has given the insurers far too much power. And that is why 50PLUS urgently wants an in-depth review of the functioning of the market in this healthcare system. Finally, what is the Minister going to do about the motion which was widely adopted last week in the States of Flevoland? The King's Commissioner was very pleased with that motion, which also signed all the coalition parties from this Chamber in the States. I would like to read the operative part: 'A call on the Minister of Health and Social Affairs to explicitly involve the continuity of care and the social importance of a hospital in Lelystad and surrounding region in this dossier'. What are you going to do with this motion? Last sentence, Chairman. You will understand that 50PLUS insists at least that the hospital, at least in Lelystad, remains open, with emergency services and with a department of acute obstetrics, and that we will address the Minister as a system responsible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u161	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. Finally, Mr Raemakers has the floor. He speaks for D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u162	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the word. We had a debate this morning on two hospitals that went bankrupt. That has created enormous uncertainty for patients. Patients who are sick and vulnerable, who are in a hospital and who need to be put in a rage. That's incredibly intense. There are also people who drove to a hospital in the belief that they had an operation there that suddenly didn't go through. That too is super intense. For all those patients, they've lost their fixed face, their familiar surroundings. In that sense, a hospital is much more than just a pile of stones, I say again to the minister. This is also a very difficult situation for staff. Doctors, nurses who have given everything for years for good patient care in a hospital. I have a great deal of respect for everyone who has worked until the last moment and also for those who are still working hard to continue to provide that good care, despite all the uncertainty and grief. A lot of good questions have been asked today. At the end of the debate, it might also be good to list what I think we agree with all the parties in this Chamber. I'll come to three cases. One, bankruptcy is always terrible. For patients and their neighbors, for staff, even if bankruptcy was inevitable and even if bankruptcy may be justified in the big picture or in the long term. Two: if there is a bankruptcy, then there must be a good transition period. Sick patients who were in the Slotervaart hospital had to set up and jumped out of there within 24 hours. That kind of thing can be traumatic for people. And we all shouldn't want that. Three: we need to see bankruptcy coming sooner. We're missing the direction in this. There were signals. The Slotervaart had not yet published annual accounts for 2017. The IJsselmeer hospitals were under enhanced supervision from the summer onwards. Silver Cross now indicates that it is not allowed for them as a health insurance company to make an emergency plan for such a threatening bankruptcy. But they did consider that the quality of care could no longer be delivered and that therefore the Slotervaart had to close abruptly. Since 19 October, the inspection and the NZa have often spoken with the hospitals about decommissioning plans. Perhaps it could have led to such an emergency plan. But apparently they do not have the means to guarantee the quality of care in advance. The picture is that the health insurance provider determines the quality of the care, not the inspection. Does the Minister recognize this image? How do we get the inspection, the IGJ, back into the lead? How are we going to resolve this humanly in the future in our system, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there's something else that's really bothering me. That's true, I think, for more than one. The drivers of these hospitals have performed undersizedly. There were shady structures with intermediate holding companies, e.g. trust offices. Care money wasn't spent on care. Care workers were not paid, but, if we can believe the NRC, the directors were paid almost EUR 1 million for advice in legal proceedings, for which the accountant could not find adequate justification. How does the Minister judge this? What's he gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few more questions about what's going to happen to the patients. Have all the patients of the Slotervaart found a suitable place? An article has just been published on Het Parool's website stating that no room has yet been found for patients who would receive chemotherapy next week. I'm worried about that. Is the Minister getting those signals? What about the medical records of patients from the Slotervaart? Were they all transferred? I read that data has to be on a CD-ROM. That's worrying. Are patients whose surgery has been cancelled now being helped elsewhere? Can they contact their health insurance provider for mediation? Then about the IJsselmeer hospitals. Will care be taken in the Flevoland region in the short term? What role does the Minister want to play in this? This is not just about the strict 45 minutes standard. It shouldn't become a paper reality. Finally, I should like to conclude, Mr President, with regard to the staff. Can all the dismissed personnel find a new job soon? What is currently known about a possible start-up? How's the staff? What role can and will the Minister take in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u163	Thank you. That leads to Mr Kuzu's final question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u164	I have the same question to D66. Does D66 consider that the Minister has done enough to prevent bankruptcy in the run-up to bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u165	That's a very good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u166	That's what I always say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u167	Oh, thank God. When I read the facts of this minister, I see that a number of actions have been taken. Then I also see a gap in the facts. I see that the decision has been very much with the health insurance company, at Silver Cross. On that point, I miss the fact that the inspection and the NZa are in a position. I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether it concerns the so-called "supervisory sensitive information" which could not be included in the factual account. You're looking at it. That's right. I have questions about that, too. I think the Minister could just say something about that. So I would be very interested to hear what exactly the role of the inspection and the NZa was and whether the Minister could say more about it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u168	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he needs 15 minutes to prepare for the first term on his part. I therefore suspend the sitting until 12.20 p.m. I would like to ask the spokesmen to come here for a moment to discuss the establishment of the Prime Minister's first term and our second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to give the floor to the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u170	Thank you, Mr President. On 25 October, two hospitals were declared bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u171	I'm sorry to interrupt. Mrs Agema has a point of order. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u172	I misunderstood you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to point out that we have just been informed that at least one patient has been put in mortal danger by being taken to the wrong hospital. I was wondering if the Minister could clarify whether there are any more patients in danger who have been transferred from Slotervaart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u173	Thank you. Perhaps the Minister can take that into account in this term, or else reflect on it in his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr. Chairman. I have to keep this question for the second term, because I don't have that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u175	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u176	Last week was the bankruptcy of two hospitals. That bankruptcy came unexpectedly and caused a lot of unrest. I find that extremely annoying for patients and for employees. I was horrified to see that people were helpless and distraught, because the care in the hospital where they were until that day stopped and they didn't know where to go, that they didn't have any clarity about the time, but they didn't know where to take care of it. If you're sick and you're in the hospital, you want to be able to count on good care. Then you don't want there to be something like a transfer from hospital, from one place to another, due to bankruptcy. That's terrible. Mr. Chairman. That we have so many hard workers in care, workers who have continued to work until the end in the two hospitals that are now bankrupt, and that there are such fantastic aid workers also in the hospitals that have taken over the patients, that is something to be thankful for and to say a great word of thanks for. A hospital is an incredibly important facility. People want to be able to trust that. People need to be able to trust that. Everywhere in the Netherlands, we want to have good care accessible to everyone. Mr. Chairman. I wish I'd known about these bankruptcies before. Until the Tuesday before that, I wrote a letter to your Chamber when there was a suspension for both hospitals, I thought there was a chance to make good plans for decommissioning and for transfer. That that did not work and that that bankruptcy was pronounced on Thursday, I too fell raw on my roof. I don't want that to happen again. One of the points I need to learn is that I will mention many more later on, and that I want to learn is how in all cases, always, we can make a careful transfer, which does not affect the patient. I hope, of course, that I will never see the bankruptcy of a hospital again, but in the current way we have organised it in such a way that hospitals can go bankrupt. Nobody's looking for that. You can't keep it from happening all the time, but I think that patient care should be paramount. Bail for care, putting it at the centre. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u177	A question from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How could Minister Bruins be so mistaken that he didn't see the acute closure of the Slotervaart hospital coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u179	Both Slotervaart and IJsselmeer hospitals have had many financial problems in the past period, but it has only become clear this summer that IJsselmeer hospitals had to be under enhanced supervision. Slotervaart was not under enhanced supervision, but also there were several quality issues in recent years. Each time we managed to make agreements on good care between hospital and healthcare provider, and last week we failed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u180	A follow-up question from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u181	The Minister just indicated that he did not see that the Slotervaart hospital had to close so abruptly. How come the Secretary of State for Medical Care didn't see that the Slotervaart hospital is so abruptly closed down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u182	We have the inspection in the Netherlands on the one hand and on the other hand the Healthcare Authority on the other. The inspection looks at good and safe care and the NZa supervises the care obligations of insurers. Mrs Agema refers to statements made by the health insurance company that between Tuesday, the suspension, and Thursday, the bankruptcy, staff were removed, medicines were recovered and resources were recovered. At that time, the health insurance company said that I cannot have safe care here anymore. And then there was bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u183	A follow-up question from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr President, what nonsense. I didn't ask the question I'm getting answered at all. I have just heard the Minister himself say that he did not see the abrupt closure of the Slotervaart hospital coming. I asked him how the medical minister didn't see that abrupt closure coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u185	Once again the answer: last Tuesday I assumed that there was room for a good phasing-out plan, for a controlled new situation. That was not possible between Tuesday and Thursday. So the seriousness of the situation, that bankruptcy became inevitable, became clear to me between Tuesday and Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u186	How come the Health Minister didn't see that possibility? How come the Secretary of State for Medical Care didn't see this coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u187	During the period before that Tuesday there were a lot of conversations between the different parties. Each time a contract has been concluded between the insurer and the hospital in the past, so that one can continue to work. On Tuesday 23 October, with that suspension payment, there was also the hope that there could be some kind of continuation. But when employees of the Slotervaart hospital stopped picking up the work so widely, they were at stake safe and high quality care. Then the health insurance company said: I can no longer make appointments with the hospital, in the financial sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u188	Then the next question is for Mrs Ploumen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u189	I find it really terrible that the Minister is now blaming the staff for the lack of good care in the Slotervaart. You can't do that. Now, my question. The Minister is responsible for the system. In July there were already public reports in the newspaper about the financial situation of hospitals. What, then, did the Minister himself not do to inform the parties between the day of that front page in the newspaper, the FD, until now, in order to avoid this chaos? I would very much like a very precise answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u190	I am absolutely not blaming the staff for bankruptcy. But high-quality care comes first. That's always important. On my behalf, the inspection has already been in extensive conversation with the directors of the Slotervaart hospital this summer, and already before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u191	One more question: what was done by the Minister personally, not on his behalf, but by him personally, as the person responsible for the system, in order to be informed about the situation in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u192	In our way of working, the inspection has that role. The inspection informs me and she did so this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u193	It is now up to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u194	We hear a minister here who is getting himself into more and more trouble and is just blundering. This minister says "qualitative good care is my priority." Just in the suspension the message of Het Parool from the Slotervaart, which is indicated by the medical staff, is still unclear where the patients should go, it is chaos. There's even a message from someone who needed chemotherapy and was put in danger. This minister is responsible for that. So I'm asking him: is he going to take responsibility now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u195	I just asked that question!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u196	Yes. We're trying to avoid duplication. This is a variant to the question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u197	I consider myself responsible for taking good care of all Dutch people. Then there is the question: is the message, which came in while we are standing here, that a patient has been put in mortal danger by being taken to the wrong hospital? The inspection has informed me that the report on this patient has not yet been received, but the inspection will immediately investigate it to determine whether other patients are at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u198	You would come back to that in the second term. It might be good to give that question a rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u199	Mr President, not just a point of order. I have already asked that question at the beginning of the debate, but there are now two reports in the inspection, so what the Minister is saying now is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u200	I propose that we reserve this point for the Minister's second term. In the meantime, there is the possibility of checking that out behind the scenes. The Minister will return to that. I therefore propose that we leave this point. Mrs Marijnissen has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u201	It's kind of painful, Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate here with the Minister for Health, who is responsible for the hospitals in the Netherlands, but not really, because it is not about it. It is a minister of the VVD, the largest party, who is responsible for the system that this minister is now hiding behind. So my question remains: when will this minister take responsibility and resolve the chaos that has arisen in these hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u202	I consider myself responsible for taking good care of all the Dutch, from the day I am allowed to hold this fine office. I also want to make sure that good care is and remains available to all people with everything in me. In the way we organized it, I know that the SP does not agree with me on this point. We have hospitals in the Netherlands that work independently with a board of directors and a supervisory board and also a division of roles for the inspection and the Healthcare Authority. I like that M.O. I want that care to always renew. That's why I need private parties. We've set up quality standards. We've made access agreements. I'm proud of that system, but I'm not proud of the bankruptcy of hospitals. Mr. Chairman. I told you last week that a hospital is a pile of rocks. What I meant to say is that for me, it is essential that good care should be available to every Dutchman, at all times. I think that's even more important than maintaining a hospital. I feel responsible that if a hospital falls over, I'm looking like a hare for where the patient can go. I want to continue that good care. I find this more important than keeping an organization like Slotervaart or IJsselmeer intact, however sad I think that these hospitals have gone bankrupt. You don't want that in view of the patient and the employee who works there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u203	Mrs Marijnissen has another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u204	The Minister once again apologizes for the extremely harsh statement that a hospital would be a pile of stones. But what is perhaps worse is that in other words he repeats the same thing. So those excuses are for the stage, because I do hear him say: yes, it can happen that a hospital goes bankrupt. Once again it is said: it is mainly about care nearby. No, Minister, I'd like to say, it's definitely about those hospitals. At the moment we are debating here and are still coming in reports. We have seen over the last few days that it is a great chaos and that it is not at all well arranged, I expect this minister to take the side of the people. But this minister is taking the side of the health insurance companies. He's holding the health insurance companies over his head while he has to stand up and tell those health insurance companies: we're going to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u205	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u206	My question is: when is this minister going to side with the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u207	Before the Minister answers a point of order from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u208	Mr. Chairman. We are receiving disturbing reports; Mr Agema has already spoken about this. The Minister wants to wait until the second deadline, but I think that if people have been in mortal danger, we cannot wait here for a second term. So I would like a suspension so that we can get an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u209	Is the Minister able to answer those questions and deal with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u210	Mr President, I am going to do my utmost to provide an answer to the questions put by Mrs Agema and Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u211	Do you need a suspension to answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u212	Yeah, well, now I need a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u213	Is that a request for suspension supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u214	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It would be wise if the Minister were to climb the phone like a madman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u215	We certainly support that request, Mr President. At the moment when these kinds of messages come in, that's worrying. But at the same time I would like to ask the Minister to think about what he is going to do. Because the outcome simply can't be that he comes back with "we're going to investigate how all this happened." No, there's got to be a solution now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u216	That's clear. It is now a question of whether or not to support a suspension. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u217	Mr. Chairman, I see the Minister needs to answer this carefully, so I'd like to give him that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u218	Mr President, the Minister himself says he needs a suspension. Then let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u219	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u220	Support, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u221	I note that there is a majority in favour of suspension. Is 15 minutes enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u222	I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u223	Then I'll suspend the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u224	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u225	Mr. Chairman. I have done my utmost in the last fifteen minutes to hear from the inspection what reports have been made. The inspection system has been turned inside out, but at the moment we have not received the notification. I also spoke to the curator. He hasn't been informed yet either. Thirdly, we are now in contact with the internist quoted in Het Parool. I would like to suggest that I continue with my reply and that I return to this point in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u226	Mrs. Agema was the applicant. I therefore give you the opportunity to respond first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, strange that any calamities reported at the inspection are not traceable. I have to give the Minister the benefit of the doubt and wait for his answer in the second term, but he can of course say what he thinks of the situation that there have been two calamities: one patient to a wrong hospital and another patient to whom an important investigation has not taken place. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u228	However, I would suggest that this should also be reflected by the Minister in the second term, together with this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u229	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u230	Well, otherwise we'll get an answer twice on the same case. That does not seem to me to be a very sensible meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u231	Mr President, we have just closed the sitting for 15 minutes and the Minister comes back with: no notification has been received at the inspection. Those reports have been made. We can now debate this for an hour. Then I'll say, "Okay, then we'll find out later why that report didn't come in. That is a technical story, but a minister for Medical Care really needs to be able to react spontaneously to the fact that people have been put in danger of dying because of the abrupt closure of the Slotervaart hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u232	The Minister is free to respond to that. I can imagine that the Minister would first like to be aware of the precise nature of the situation and therefore to reflect on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u233	If it is true that a patient has been put in mortal danger, that is of course terrible. If that's a consequence of the transfer from one hospital to another, that's terrible. So I do not need a second deadline to express that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u234	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u235	This Minister is really getting himself into serious trouble in this way. We just suspended to find out what's going on. We can read in the paper what's going on. If you're gonna talk to the people, to the staff, you can hear what's going on. We hear and see that the medical staff says that it is still unclear where people should go. We read examples of people who are in danger of life. The urgent question to the Minister is really: is he going to side with the caregivers who work very hard to provide good care and for whom he speaks fine words here but who is actually trying to pin the blame on him by saying that he cannot guarantee care? Or is he just gonna keep the health insurance guys out of control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u236	That is part of the debate, I would say. It is now about the proposal to place the response to these situations in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u237	I understand that, Mr President, but we are dealing here with a minister who says: yes, I am very sorry, but I do not really know. He didn't see the hospital's bankruptcy coming and now the transfer. Now it's again about the inspection report, which he says I don't know about any reporting. With a minister who, truly, knows nothing, we cannot have a debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u238	The Minister may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u239	With everything in me, I want to bring you the correct and factual information. Last night there were contacts between the inspection and the medical staff of the hospital. There were many issues raised, including the risks of the transfer, but at that time this calamity was not addressed. That's why I want to inform your Chamber correctly and factually, Mr. President. That is why, if this is not in the system, I have tried to get the internist oncologist on the phone personally. I haven't been able to do that in the last 15 minutes. I want to side with the patient care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u240	Finally, Mr President. The Minister again talks about "system": "I can't find it in the system"; "I can't intervene"; "I can't save the hospital, because it doesn't fit into the system." I would like to say to the Minister: it is not about the system, Minister Bruins, it is about the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u241	And that's how I feel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u242	But, Mr President, the Minister doesn't show that. In my view, that is the whole problem with regard to the basis of the dossier, and the reason why we are here today. I hear the Minister, after 15 minutes of suspension, say, "I've looked into the system," "I've had the system figured out." That's the first reaction we get, when there's someone, at least one person, in danger of life. Then "I'm gonna look in the system" just can't be the answer. That's the fixed system thinking in the care that we need to get rid of. I would urge the Minister not to think from systems but from people in the future of his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u243	I was asked: is the message that the patient was put in mortal danger? If I need to know that from the government side, it will require a report. And if you can't find that report, then I'm not in it. Then I would like to have the specialist in question, the person who has been quoted, on the line. I think it is important to clarify this. I want to be on the patient's side. On the side of the health care provider, that's where I want to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u244	Well, I would like to say to this Minister in particular: let that be demonstrated by the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u245	That doesn't call for a response. Mrs. Agema another sequel?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister just said here that if people were in danger of life, he would find that horrible. Of course, we all hate that. But this situation arose after the acute closure of the Slotervaart hospital. And the Minister didn't do anything about it. The Minister allowed the closure to take place and set up a crisis staff to accompany the bankruptcies. He didn't set up a crisis staff to keep the hospitals open. So this person, as a result of which, so the minister walked, was in mortal danger. And then the minister here just said, "I'm on the side of the patients." You can't do that if you just shut down the hospital. Then you're not on the side of the patients, then you're on the side of the insurers, who just pull the plug off somewhere. Then you're on the side of the drivers who made a mess of it. Then you're the last person on the patient side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u247	A response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u248	Mr. Chairman. We have set up a method in the Netherlands in which hospitals exist and care is provided there. We must talk here about the good care that is being given; that is what I want to talk about. And I hate it when a patient is put in danger. I also hate when a hospital gets knocked over. I would very much like to say to you earlier that there had been a decent period in the run-up to that bankruptcy. So that I could have clearly grasped my direction. So I could make sure patients were carefully transferred. So that I could talk to the staff about going from one organization to another. That time has not been allowed for me, and again I find it very
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u249	Finally, Mr President. That's not what the Minister did. We've been interrupting here first. We discussed the question here first: why didn't he see it coming? He didn't see it coming. And then it could happen. When the hospital closed, when the patients in the square were standing in front of the hospital, then the minister let it happen. He did not drive his car to Amsterdam to say: that closure is not going to happen. He set up a crisis staff to oversee the bankruptcy, to supervise the closure. And now the Minister says: if someone is in danger of life, it is very bad; I am, of course, on the side of the patients. It's not the same thing. Or you're on the side of the patients, and then you'd have gone to Amsterdam and you'd have said the hospital isn't closing. Or you're on the side of the system, the insurance companies and the drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u250	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u251	I think the Minister needs a whole different story to get that out of the air, so he's on the wrong side of this story, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u252	Mr. Chairman. I want and stay on the patient's side. Keeping good care available for everyone in the Netherlands, I think that is very important. At the time of the bankruptcy, I've been working on setting up a crisis staff to inform your Chamber. I've been working on the medical specialists' liability insurance to make sure it went crazy. I have maintained contacts with incredibly many different parties in the area of Amsterdam, Lelystad, Dronten and Emmeloord. I also went to check on the patients. I've spoken to the medical specialists. I talked to the nurses. When people were transferred, I also wanted to talk to those people about how terrible it is that you're being transferred from one hospital to another. I talked to those people who were in the OLVG patient. I did speak to them the moment the relief was there that they were transferred. But I also spoke to them at the time they hated being a patient and had to be transferred because of that bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u253	I'd like to return to the patient who's been in danger of life. If I listen carefully to the Minister, he says that this calamity has not been addressed in the consultation. Are there any other life-threatening situations for patients discussed in the consultation? In that case, why were we not informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u254	No, there have been no other life-threatening situations in that conversation, so let me know. If there's a second situation, I'm going to report it to you. I'll have that checked out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u255	The Minister says several times: I wish I had known sooner. But that really isn't enough. For the minister already knew, and with the minister the health insurers, that things were not going well in the Slotervaart hospital and in the IJsselmeer hospitals. What I expect from the Minister is that at that moment he will consider what scenarios can be unfolding. One of those scenarios should have been that the unrest would lead to bankruptcy. It is indeed the responsibility of the Minister that he had prepared himself for this with all the others involved. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u256	Indeed, I would very much have liked to prepare for bankruptcy. As crazy as it sounds, I would have liked to have preparation time so that I could have taken my role so that I could have spoken to parties, patients, patient representatives and the medical staff of the respective hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u257	It's not an answer to the question. The painful facts are that we already knew that things were going badly in that hospital and that things were going very badly. Those signals were already there. And then I expect the Minister for Medical Care to sit down with the other directly involved and think about solutions and scenarios. One of the blackest scenarios was that the unrest would lead to bankruptcy. That was a possibility. I expect this minister to have prepared himself for that. He would not have been so robbed and we would not have had this chaos and this terrible situation that is now happening in patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u258	The seriousness of the situation has proved to me at the time of the suspension. Once again, in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet and all of you, I would have liked to have more space so that I could continue to deliver good care to everyone with certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u259	The minister says he only knew last Tuesday that the situation was so acute. What you don't know before that, you don't know. If the minister says he did what he could after that, I believe him. But then that is the reason for some on this side of the interrupting microphone to talk about a system change or a change in the whole system. The minister says he doesn't want to. I get that. That's what we wrote down in the coalition agreement. But, of course, what we have to think about is how to prevent this from happening again. How do we ensure that not only the Minister accepts his responsibility, but that also directors, a supervisory board and the inspection do so? Everyone has a responsibility. How do we ensure that it does not happen again that a minister is informed only at such a late stage and that care for patients is continued in such a panicky, chaotic way? How do we prevent this from happening again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u260	I do not think I can yet talk about a situation that has returned to peace, but at the moment that peace has returned I will myself and with the inspection, the Healthcare Authority and the curator... I want lessons learned to avoid repetition. I don't want to do this again. I hate this. Firstly, for the patients, secondly, for the employees. We want to keep that system in the Netherlands as far as I am concerned, but we also want to make it better. I also believe that the region should have a role in this and that this Chamber should have a role in it. It's like hospitals, apart from hum surroundings, separate from the college of B and W and the county, functioned. I want that connection in there. I think that's important. I think we should learn lessons, learn lessons to avoid repetition. That's one. Two. Some of you have spoken of shady financial constructions. That's where the bottom rock's gonna come up. There has to be clarity about that, too. Can I get a report on that from the curator? I'm sure, but it's gonna take a lot more than that. So also at that point. Third. I got in touch with the Security Research Council yesterday. They said they were going to investigate patient safety after bankruptcy. That's what I'm getting from the heart. I'm not in charge of that investigation, but I think it's a very good idea to do that. That too is one of the ways to learn lessons. Some of you have also made very practical suggestions to get questions answered. I would like to learn from that and discuss it with your Chamber. That goes for the future, but also for Flevoland. We have incredibly many people sitting here today in the gallery saying: we want to keep that care provision in Lelystad and we want to maintain not only a basic care provision but also emergency care and acute obstetrics in the city. Mr President, I need time for this, not years, not months, but a few weeks, to ensure with the health insurers and the others that that care can be maintained in Lelystad. I think that's very important. That's important to you. That's what everyone who listens to is important. How exactly that should be organized, I don't know. Fortunately, there are all kinds of parties that have reported to the curator to take over forms of care. That sounds rather abstract to me but that curator is going to make choices in it and I'm going to keep me involved in those choices, because care should stay in Lelystad, not only basic care but also emergency care and acute obstetrics. That is what the action is aimed at from my side, to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u261	Mr Segers, follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u262	I think it's good to distinguish two things. I think we will talk later about the continuation of care and how it should land. But now the question is important, here too, how to prevent what has happened now from happening again in the future, so that at such a late hour the Minister gets to hear something and can hardly act anymore and then it goes as it goes, with scenes as we have seen that we never want to see again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u263	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u264	We do not need to upset a whole system, but we need to ensure that a supervisory board takes its responsibility, that the inspection is much earlier, that if it was indeed round the table with the hospitals in the summer, much earlier, the minister informs the minister that the minister is going there to ensure that that care is maintained and that people are not transported in wheelchairs in a way that we all find terrible. Do I understand the Minister correctly that he says: if not again and I will do everything I can to ensure that I can fulfil my role much better? Does it also mean that there is a line through all kinds of shady constructions, such as investors placing themselves on the payroll, and that we are going to take a very expensive lesson from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u265	I do think this lesson is very expensive. I did not say it here yesterday for the first time, but I said it before the summer holidays in another debate: I think that if a hospital changes or closes in acute care, or if it has to deal with a merger or major interventions in the activities, it should be reported, not only in the inspection and the NZa, but also in the region concerned. Then we, and I too, can take an active role in this. That's gotta be much better. This is not a policy measure, but it is regulated. That's what an AMvB is made for. It's in preparation. I've got your room message. In addition, there is the point of viability. I am looking at Mr Segers now, but I can look at you all, because you have made a point of that. Livability and hospital, those two belong together. I call it traveling to a hospital and the distances to a hospital. I want us to have a regional view of the question of care and the provision of care. It's not just about the care side, it's wider. It is also about accessibility and the availability of other functions in the region. I want to see what I can do about that from my wallet. It is perhaps wider; also towards other portfolios. But I don't want to point to other parties. I want to keep it to myself. When it comes to such a picture of concern, I told them that RIVM is ready to help. I think that's very important. That too can help us to get the insight right and never let go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u266	Firstly, I am pleased to hear that the Minister has indicated that he will soon come forward with regulations for mandatory consultation, including with the region and thus with regional government. We called for this as a CDA in the debate on 13 June. It is also good that the Minister looks at the regional need for care. This can be very decisive for the care available in a region. But I would like to come back to another point. We have asked the Minister some questions in the run-up to this debate. We received the answers yesterday. One of the questions was: who is responsible and liable when medical misses occur through incomplete and careless transfer of patients and files? I understand that the Minister cannot go into that now, but I would like to know. He answered that at the time. I would like him to come back to the answer given earlier in the second term, because that seems to us to be very relevant in view of the latest reports. That is the request to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u267	I'd like to honor that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u268	That will come in the second term. Okay. Then Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u269	This debate is becoming increasingly uncomfortable and painful. At the start of this debate we had the idea that we might have been dealing with a minister who is not entirely in control. He didn't see the bankruptcy coming, and he didn't actually do anything. But in this debate we see a minister who loses control only further. In a suspension a message arrives that it is still really not well arranged with the transfer. Apparently, these reports are getting into the newspaper before the minister's office. He can't find them in his system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u270	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u271	Come to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u272	Those were the words of the Minister: the inspection system has been searched and the inspection system does not contain the notification. But the Minister must realize that today he is making it very difficult for the Chamber to have a proper debate with him when we are dealing with a minister who has so little control? He didn't have it about the bankruptcies, because he would have loved to know about it sooner. But he didn't know. He didn't have it on the reports, because we should read it in the paper. We'll ask the minister, but he doesn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u273	Come to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u274	Well, my question is clear, I think: does the Minister realize that he is playing with the confidence that the Chamber can have to the extent that he is still in control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u275	If I am asked a question about a patient who has been put in danger of life, I think that this Chamber is entitled to the most precise answer there is. For this I have an information system of inspection at my service. I reversed that. If that system doesn't have a notification at the moment that system is being read out several times a day, then I'll look further, because I want to inform your Chamber correctly. Then I'll call the curator. If there is no clarity, I would like to call the specialist in question because I want to inform your Chamber correctly and completely. That there's something in a newspaper... Het Parool didn't call me first to tell me this is gonna be in the paper. I am here to debate with you, and if there is a message in the newspaper, I would very much like to do so, if you wish, and also for myself, for correctness and factuality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u276	But we talked about that. The Minister will return to this situation in the second term. A final comment on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u277	Yeah, rounding it up. The minister wants a lot, but he does so little. That's exactly the problem here, I think. We really expect the Minister to act now and to come up with solutions in this debate, including, for example, Slotervaart. Is he gonna come up with an emergency loan? Is he going to give the inspection a role there? What's he gonna do, now, to solve those problems? I really want to tell the Minister that he has to come up with an answer and not just with a care he has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u278	For the Slotervaart, I'll wait and see what the curator comes up with. Why? Because I have to assess whether there are subsequent parties interested in the activities of the Slotervaart. I do not want to judge that at the moment, but I have done so for the IJsselmeer hospitals. I think that I should go very far there to ensure that the vitality in and around Lelystad remains central. That is why I would like to invest in attention, and I have said this to you before, in order to ensure that basic provision, emergency care and acute obstetrics remain in Lelystad and region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u279	I have heard the Minister say a number of times: I wish I had more time so that I could take the lead. I was wondering, the moment he said that, if he doesn't consider himself responsible for having at an early stage exactly the information that allowed him to take control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u280	Sure. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u281	A follow-up question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u282	I don't think the minister was ready, because he said, "I think..."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u283	I think I should always be appealing to good care throughout the Netherlands. In this case, I do not have any information, which has put us in a precarious situation. Of course, I don't want to repeat myself. I think that is one of the very important lessons learned, at least for me. I'm going to look for measures: how can I avoid repetition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u284	That's very good. We learn something every day at......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the past, there have also been situations where the minister, his predecessors or the administration at VWS could have thought about how this situation could have been averted. I would like to ask myself very clearly who is responsible for the situation that has arisen. Are those the caretakers, is that the minister of VWS, are those the different supervisors, the NZa, the IGJ? Who is responsible for the situation and who is ultimately responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u285	In the report he makes, the curator will indicate the cause of the bankruptcy. That is the answer to the first part of Mr Kuzu's question. The answer to the second part is that I feel responsible for the healthcare system in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u286	Clear. One final comment, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u287	It is not the case that the Minister should feel responsible, he is responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u288	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u289	He is responsible, so feeling does not mean anything in this case as far as I am concerned. What should then happen if he really wants to take that responsibility is that he must act on it as well. We have different roles in health care. We have the supervisors, we have the entrepreneurs who have made a pot of it, we have patients, at least one of whom is now in a life-threatening situation, and we have staff who are worried about the future of their hospital. You should not look afterwards at what has gone wrong; that should have happened in advance. We could have known that in the front. Then my specific question to the Minister is: does he agree with me that he could have had much more information in advance to avoid this? A simple yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u290	No, it's been missing me from that information. The seriousness of the situation, as I have said earlier, has become clear to me when I speak of the situation as a whole. And that time between suspension and bankruptcy has been far too short to organise a proper winding-down, I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u291	I have a brief concluding remark to make. Unfortunately, I have to conclude in management terms, because I think the Minister understands that much better than ordinary human language, that he is not in control. He's not in control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u292	That is the final point. Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u293	I will go further on this because I absolutely cannot understand how it is possible for the Minister to say: if only I had known sooner. Nor can I understand why if the hospital of the summer was already under tighter supervision, the Minister was not aware of that. I want to know from the Minister who he should have gotten that information from. Who should have informed you? You agree with us that you should have been informed, don't you? Then you could have set up that summer crisis team instead of late. But who were you supposed to get that information from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u294	The information I would like comes from the board of directors of the hospital, from the health insurance company, from the inspection, from the NZa and, quite frankly, from whom else I could have provided that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u295	Mrs. Sazias, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u296	So the Minister is actually saying that he has received no signals either from the NZa or from the IGJ or from the board of the hospital or from the health insurance companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u297	Definitely. I've certainly been getting signals about the hospital's situation. But each time it looked like good appointments could be made so that the hospital could continue to function. That was Mrs Sazias' first question. I am sorry that the time between suspension and bankruptcy has been too short to come up with a decent plan to do justice to patients and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u298	A final remark from Mrs Sazias, should there be a need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u299	The intervention should have taken place before the suspension, instead of muddling again and again. I have the impression that this minister still wants to learn so much, to learn so much, that it might be an idea that he should go back to school first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u300	That's a remark without a question. I suggest that the next interrupt gets the floor. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u301	Still on the subject of information to the Minister. He indicated that he could have heard it from several parties. But he didn't hear that there was already a short-term bankruptcy, when there wasn't really a proper emergency plan yet. In the direction of Mr Segers, the Minister has just indicated that he will draw lessons from this for the future. I think that is fine for the long term, but it is still too vague for tomorrow. If that has gone wrong now and the Minister says that this should not happen again, how is it now arranged or how can he agree that if tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or next week, he will be informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u302	That is precisely the question I have to deal with internally, because I do not feel like standing before you again with a second situation. I'd like to go to the ice if I didn't. I have no reason to expect another bankruptcy, but I do want to be prepared, not only for the longer term, also for tomorrow. So I'm going to look for information that can help me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u303	A follow-up question from Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u304	Honestly, I think that's just not sharp enough. In this situation, which we are actually saying 'it is so painful that the Minister did not have the information on this when he should have had it in order to take on the role of director', I find the remark that he is actually looking for solutions too vague. Then I want to be able to trust the Minister on the basis of this debate that measures are now being taken, that this simply cannot happen to this minister again. Can he say a little more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u305	We're talking about the situation of bankruptcy. Again, I don't expect there to be another bankruptcy. I don't have that, that's not my expectation. But of course I will check with the inspection, with the NZa, where the big risks are, so that we can avoid repetition. That's what I'm doing. I'll do it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u306	Thank you. I call Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u307	I think a little bit of the problem is who was responsible at what point. I grabbed the Minister's letter of fact. On 31 July the IGJ placed the IJsselmeer hospitals under enhanced supervision. Next, during the summer, the health insurance company talks and then VWS will be informed on Thursday 18 October and Friday 19 October. When you read the fact sheet, you get the very idea that it is the health insurers who decide whether good and safe care is still possible. The fact sheet also states that the overview has been cleared of supervisory sensitive information. My question to the Minister is: where in that gap between 31 July and those moments of decision where the health insurance company says "we no longer have faith in it," did any information from the inspection go to the minister? And could the Minister give us that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u308	Mr President, no other information has gone to me, but I am going to double-check it. Because I think Mr Ramaekers' question is so precise that I want to see what other information has gone to the Ministry not only to me but also to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u309	A follow-up question from Mr Ramaekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u310	Then there is the question of what it means that the overview has been cleared of supervisory sensitive information. Should we interpret that sentence in such a way that it does not mean that information moments or information data are missing in this letter, but that it is about that at some point in the fact-sheet it was not reported what the nature of that information was?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u311	Mr President, the overview has been cleared of supervisory information. If information is provided to your Room which makes the situation of a hospital financially more vulnerable, this is an example of supervisory sensitive information. I also find this point something to discuss with your Chamber, because perhaps not all the information can be public, but I think it is more often necessary that I share information with you, including supervisory information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u312	A final comment from Mr Raemaekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u313	Finally, does the Minister share our view that it is not possible for the health insurance provider to decide only as a health insurance provider on good and safe care without the inspection being able to assess it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u314	I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u315	Before I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet, I would like to make a point of order as chairman. I see Mr Baudet standing, not registered for participation in the debate, not first-term speeches. That means I can't allow any interruptions. So I'm sorry to disappoint you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u316	But a Member of Parliament is allowed to speak, isn't he? I was in a climate hearing, I see this is happening...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u317	Yes, but within the framework of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u318	It is not in the Rules of Procedure that this should not be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u319	Yes, I do. It is stated in the Rules of Procedure that the entry should take place and the rule here in the House is that interruptions are allowed to those who have spoken. You didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u320	That is use in this house, but use can be customized according to custom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u321	Then I will explain to the participants in the debate whether they are prepared to allow Baudet to intervene. Seems like the cleanest route to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u322	Mr President, allowing an interruption is entirely up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u323	I will not allow it, but if the Chamber is of the opinion, so the participants in the debate believe that this should be possible, I am prepared to join. I am your servant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u324	The chairman shall decide. It's really just your decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u325	So I like to hear the reactions of the participants and then I decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u326	Support for the line to allow only those who are registered for the debate to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u327	Mr President, support for this. This is a complex debate. We have taken time together to exchange arguments, even in the first term. We don't have the rules of the game to do it that way for nothing. So now there's no room for just any interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u328	I share that line, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u329	There is no room for politicians walking in, just for people who have prepared, who have signed up and participate properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u330	That is also the opinion of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u331	Our opinion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u332	I agree with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u333	Mr President, I would like to give Mr Baudet his video.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u334	Yes, but the conclusion is that there is no majority for admission to the debate. So, Mr. Baudet, the Chamber is not prepared to deviate from the rules that it has set itself. Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet, your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u335	Thank you, Mr President. The situation is actually getting more and more confusing as the debate progresses. First, the Minister indicated that he had not received any signals between 16 July and 22, 23 October. He then said, at Mrs Sazias's question, that he had received both from the inspection and from the NZa and from the health insurance companies, that he had received signals about the difficult situation in hospitals. My question to the Minister is: what exactly did he receive during the period between July 16th, when the inspection was concerned and worried about the hospitals and October 22rd, 23rd, the period during which the suspension was applied for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u336	There have been several contacts between the inspection and my department. After the summer recess, there were conversations at my table with the inspection. That was in the period between mid-July and 18 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u337	Then we must conclude that the Minister's Ministry and thus the Minister were informed in the meantime about the worrying situation in those hospitals? And then it is true that the Minister should have used the information he received to prepare himself for possible developments, including one possible development is the bankruptcy of these hospitals? This would have prevented us from getting into the situation with the chaos and panic and lack of quality of care that patients are struggling with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u338	The conversation I had with the inspection also aimed to see what follow-up steps were possible for the functioning, the functioning of both hospitals. Again, that those hospitals could not function by that sharpness only proved on October 22nd. I would have liked to know that sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u339	Mr. Chairman. There have been a lot of signals from different parties, including the NZa and the inspection and the health insurance companies, that it did not go well. And of course we all hope that we will be able to adjust it so that it will eventually be okay, but it could have been okay, and it is now true that it is not gonna be okay, and we are in that situation now. I believe that the Minister has a responsibility to prepare for this. Then we could have avoided all the misery that we are now facing the patients and the caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u340	The plan that had to be made to function through... If you see that it doesn't work, because the financial situation of the hospitals is so precarious... I would have liked that plan to be fruitful, that the hospital could have functioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u341	Let me summarize where we stand when I listen to the Minister. The minister would have wanted to know sooner. The minister would have wanted to do something sooner. The minister would have liked to be involved sooner. The Minister leaves the initiative of an investigation into the state of affairs to another party. This raises the question of what is the role of this minister. I do not think that a minister's job is to want to know something earlier. The task must be to do something. How does the Minister himself reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u342	I fully agree with Mrs Ploumen. I would like to have the role of ensuring that, when bankruptcy is imminent, there is time to continue to provide good care during that fragile period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u343	The Minister would have liked to have that role. The minister could have taken that part. If he says "I didn't, I didn't have the instruments for that," I'd like to hear what he needs to do. I think those possibilities are there and he should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u344	I think it's important that I learn from this situation. This requires that I have the right information when, even after a surseillance, there is no longer any possibility for a hospital to function. I think I should look from the perspective of good care: what is needed, where can I offer patients the assurance and safety that good, qualitative care is there? In the system we have, it's possible that a hospital will fall over. I want to be prepared in case something like this happens again unexpectedly, so that this care can continue and patients are properly transferred to the hospital. I want the exchange of information between one doctor and another, and one nurse and another, to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u345	That should have been good and could have been done now if the Minister had done what he should have done in my view. Mr President, I would like to make a point of order with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u346	You have a right to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u347	This is again about the reports of the patient who has been in mortal danger. I just read that the internist who is going to report RTL News has spoken. My question is: why has the Minister not been able to make contact with that internist? I think it is right that we should look into this and give the Minister an opportunity to give us further information on this important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u348	Can I first ask the Minister whether he is now in a position to answer this question? Or does he indeed do so in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u349	Mr President, I am standing here and I cannot possibly do two things at once. I can hear Mrs Ploumen say that the internist is going to make a report. I've just checked to see if there's been a report. Since that message was given to me, I wanted to check it out. I would like to finish the first-term answer. We are looking into this debate with the specialist so that he can also inform us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u350	Mrs. Ploumen, okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u351	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But I would like to ask the Minister and you whether he will begin his second term. The case is too important to keep waiting longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u352	Sure, thank you. I have just forgotten who was the first to appear on the interrupting microphone: Mrs Van den Berg or Mrs Marijnissen. Can I give Mrs van den Berg the floor first? We're all deeply embarrassed, but I'm happy to give her the opportunity. After all, it's your turn, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u353	I would like to return to what the Minister said, that he would like to have the role. We believe there are all the possibilities within the system. I'd like to give the Minister the room you want. The Chamber will then comment on him if he goes too far. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u354	I understand this incentive very well. As a result of what has happened in the last few days, I am looking for ways to prevent repetition and to be able to take the initiative more often and more intrusively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u355	Sufficient? Then Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u356	I said later that I was starting to find this debate more and more painful because the Minister seemed to have little control at the outset and the debate seems to be losing control even further. And I am not actually sitting in my seat yet, or there is going to be something new, namely that the Minister is going to say other things in this debate today than in the letter he sent us, for example when he was exactly informed. Was that not until, as he said at the beginning of the debate, he was so annoying, because he was so keen to have known before, or was that actually in July, what I just heard him say and what really happened three months ago? Can the Minister clarify what is the right reading?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u357	In the summer and even before, there were financial problems, more generally. That's what I wore knowledge about. The specific situation, this explicit situation of suspension, I have said to you earlier, has become known to me in the run-up to the suspension which was given on 22 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u358	But then this confirms even more that the Minister has no control? He is beginning to say this debate: I would have liked to have known it all before, I am so annoying, I would have liked to have known it before. And it turns out that in July it was quite clear that it did not go well at all. Then the question remains whether the Minister realises that he is losing control and what is he going to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u359	This isn't about "everything didn't go well." What matters to me is that I want to have an action perspective at a time when bankruptcy is imminent. There have been reports in the summer, for both hospitals, that there were financial problems. That wasn't the first time. It's happened before. In fact, they came out every time, closing agreements were made so that safe care of good quality could be delivered. That was short for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u360	Finally, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u361	I note that, in the run-up to this debate, the Minister has always left me over the market: I am completely surprised by this, I knew nothing about it and I find it so annoying. And today we actually hear that in July, three months ago, in the summer, it was clear that there were big problems. And then the minister should have intervened, he shouldn't have stood by the sidelines and held the health insurance companies over his head. Then he should have chosen that patient he was talking about later. He wanted to be on the patient's side so badly. Then why didn't he do it in July? Why didn't he intervene then? Why does he initially come to the Chamber today with a story that he finds it so annoying and that he wanted to know so much earlier? He knew before and didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u362	There have been long-term financial problems at both hospitals. There was always the opportunity to get to a follow-up of good care, of safe care there. Then it is in the interests of the patients that they can also be operated on and treated there. That that ended so abruptly on October 22nd with a suspension and on October 24th with a bankruptcy I hope that I now pronounce the days well I find very annoying, primarily for patients and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u363	Thank you. Then there is Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u364	I think it is very good that the Minister is now increasingly acknowledging his own mistakes, and also very clearly stating that I really do hear back that he is willing to learn from this situation. As a kind of closure, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can outline what he is going to do in the coming weeks to learn optimally from this situation and to avoid repetition in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u365	What I think is important is that I am going to focus the energy of the next few days and that the provision in Flevoland is well organized. I want to see with the curators which bidders there are and which care can be provided there: basic care, acute care, emergency care and acute obstetrics. And don't just look. Not only to see whether, but also how to ensure that this quality of care in Lelystad can also be secured for the future, as I believe you mentioned in your contribution. I think that's the most important thing. I believe that this will best benefit patients and residents of the region. In Slotervaart there are other hospitals nearby. That's different in Flevoland. So that's where I want to put the first energy. There is also a need for lessons to be drawn in order to avoid repetition in the longer term. I may need a little more time for that, because I need a curator's report and a few more documents. But that will have to be discussed with you within a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u366	Thank you. Thank you for the interruptions. I can imagine that many of the points that you had included in your speech have already been answered. My question is therefore: how will the answer be further developed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u367	Mr President, I would like to look at the various questions that have been put to me. I do think I have answered the majority of the questions by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u368	As far as the interruptions are concerned, I would also like to suggest that they should be somewhat reduced where possible. We had a nice deal, but things got out of hand. That's part of the game, let's just say. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to continue his speech as continuously as possible. At the end, there will always be an opportunity to intervene, or to move something to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u369	I think I have answered Mrs Agema's questions so far. The same applies to the questions put by Mrs Marijnissen. I would like to say the following in the direction of Mr Kuzu. Mr Kuzu spoke about the fact that I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u370	Can I have a second? Mrs Agema probably has another question that has remained. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u371	Yes. It is about keeping the IJsselmeer hospitals open; then it is about the driving times, the accessibility of Urk. We have made a big point of this, and I think it is wrong for the Minister to let that go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u372	Does the Minister still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u373	I thought I'd answered that. I believe that in the provision that should remain open in Flevoland, and on which various providers have now made suggestions to the curator, we will have to find out which suggestions are the best, and that includes the driving times of the ambulances. So that is not only about basic care and acute care; but also about the emergency care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u374	Still an enlightenment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u375	This is not entirely correct as an answer to my comments. We do not want Flevoland to end up like the Slotervaart hospital. We have made it very clear that the maximum driving times of the ambulances cannot become the norm and that the IJsselmeer hospitals should therefore remain open. That must be an average driving time of 15 minutes or 20 minutes. It can't be that when your child's in the hospital, you have to travel half the country. It cannot be that the maximum time limit of 45 minutes applies if you are in distress. We have clearly stated that keeping open is our commitment and I want to hear the Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u376	The Minister may be able to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u377	The IJsselmeer hospital is bankrupt. We are now in the hands of the curator, who receives different bids. I would have liked to inform you which bid has been chosen and where there is the best chance for the future, but that consideration is still being made. I won't leave that to the curator. I want to be involved in the organisation of care provision in Flevoland. I don't want to be dependent on a curator and other bidders, but also that basic care well equipped with emergency care and acute obstetrics, so acute care. That includes the paramedics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u378	This is not the beginning of an answer to my question. I hear "bids," I hear "curator," I hear a lot of things, but I do not hear a minister who guarantees that he will not go to the maximum driving time of 45 minutes. I do not hear him say that his commitment is that while the Slotervaart hospital is closed, four locations of the IJsselmeer hospitals remain open. I want to know what the Minister's commitment is. Are the four locations still open? Is that the bet? Or is he going to put others behind the wheel of the car and will it soon end up against a tree again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u379	The Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u380	I want to ensure that care in Flevoland for the people in Lelystad and the surrounding area is well secured and kept secure. I'm working on that. I'd like to have the space to see where that is in Lelystad. If it's in this hospital, it's in this hospital. If it's in another place, then... I'm gonna need a little space for that. My commitment is to maintain basic care, acute care and ambulance provision in a sustainable way for Lelystad and surroundings, in order to ensure good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u381	I suggest that this is your last interruption, Mrs. Agema, to stay a little close to the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u382	Finally, Mr President. We've seen "get space for a moment" leads to. I hear the Minister putting a lot of standard administrative sentences in a row here. I have clearly told him that the 45-minute legal standard is intended for the outskirts of the country and not as a system on which we are going to design hospital care in the province of Flevoland. I ask the Minister a clear yes or no: do the four locations as basic hospital remain open with emergency aid, with obstetrics or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u383	My commitment is to basic care and acute care in Lelystad. That's what I want to do. Everything that comes with it is beautiful and beautiful, but for Lelystad I want to start with that. That 45 minute standard is not there for the outskirts of the Netherlands. That 45 minute standard is the sensitive standard for sensitive hospitals and there are not only those in the outskirts of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u384	I think that is good news, because I think the Minister is saying more clearly than he did yesterday that he is committed to maintaining hospital care in Lelystad. Do I understand him correctly that the same applies to acute obstetrics? That is important, because that is one of the main concerns that we are hearing back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u385	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u386	Clear. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u387	That's clear. So the Minister says that he too feels it is undesirable if that solution is to be sought outside Flevoland with long driving times and if it cannot be found within Flevoland itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u388	That's why I didn't just say I'm gonna look or, but also that I'm gonna look for basic care and acute care that I can sustainably ensure in Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u389	Thank you for the commitment. I have a small comment to make. We are talking about a very specific region, which is different from, for example, the Randstad. For example, I mentioned the birth rates on Urk. They seem to be the highest in the Netherlands. That creates a specific context. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that it is indeed his intention to maintain that concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u390	That's acute obstetrics. It is indeed part of the emergency services, basic care and acute obstetrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u391	With due regard for the Minister's own responsibility, because he must, of course, sit down with all kinds of parties...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u392	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u393	... but in what time could the Chamber hear more about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u394	That's what I expected. I am a little dependent on what the curator will achieve in the coming weeks, but I would like to be able to clarify this to the people of Flevoland within two or three weeks, but also to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u395	Mrs Agema, another purely technical question. No introduction. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u396	Does the Minister's commitment to keeping Lelystad open, possibly, plus minus, mean that it is finished with the hospital locations in Dronten, Urk and Emmeloord?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u397	I'm not making any statements about that. I really want to see what the different bids have been. I'm gonna focus on Lelystad, see what's possible out there, not just or, but hoo-hoo-hoo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u398	Clear. The Minister continues the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u399	I had stayed with Mr Kuzu, who said: follow closely. I want to prove here that it is not only a question of monitoring closely, but also of making interventions, taking responsibility and showing that good care is sustainable throughout the Netherlands, including in Flevoland. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to answer Mrs Van den Berg's questions. What has been the role of the shareholders, she has asked. That is what I want to involve in the issue of finance. I've told you that before. I think that when it comes to financial constructions that may have contributed to the bankruptcy of both hospitals, the bottom line must be. I will make use of the reports of the curator, but also of other information, so that the good facts can emerge at that point. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered most of the questions in Mrs Ploumen's speech. Maybe the last one isn't: whether the current system is satisfactory. You can look at that in different ways. I think that the system in which we have private and public parties working in healthcare is a good one at the core, but I am looking for ways of making the government play a stronger role in it, both locally, regionally and nationally. As proof of this: if there are developments in acute care at local level, I believe that lectures in the region should be informed, alongside all kinds of other parties. When it comes to care in the region, I think that a region needs to be clear about what healthcare needs and offers are. Soon I will go to Drenthe, to name another province, where a care table is organized. The interesting thing is that not only the responsibilities of a general practitioner, an ambulance or a hospital are being looked at, but the parties are sitting there together with the government and giving a look at what is now a concern and what the need is in the future. I think that's important. That's at regional level. Then national level. I do not want a repetition of bankruptcies with such a short sum as I am allowed to express in this way, preparation time, not for the government, not for the inspection, not for the NZa, but not for me either. I think it should be better. That's what I'm gonna do. That's what I'm going to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u400	I look forward to that. I would like to ask the Minister what time we can see these proposals, partly in the light of the fact that there are apparently now 14 hospitals potentially in trouble. So there's a bit of a rush.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u401	Again, I don't think any of the other hospitals are falling over. I don't think so. However, I hope that the lessons learned from this debate and from this working method will be presented to you no later than the first quarter of next year. I need information from the NZa, the inspection and the curator. I think you should have that look at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u402	Mrs Ploumen's last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u403	The minister didn't see these bankruptcies coming either, so I'd like to urge him to make more haste. One more factual question, Mr. Chairman, if I may. Back to the trial leading to the bankruptcy of the Slotervaart hospital and the IJsselmeer hospitals. Has the possibility of a suspension of payment been suggested by one of the parties mentioned by the Minister before the end of October? Has that option come up before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u404	No. It came to me shortly after our budget debate. That, I think, was October 18th. The point that there might have been a suspension coming up came to the table Friday morning. During the weekend this was discussed by the health insurance company and the board of directors. That was discussed at my table on Monday. On Tuesday, the suspension is over, and I sent you a letter on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u405	A final remark, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u406	Very briefly. Does this also mean that this possibility has not been suggested at a table which the Minister did not attend but which all the parties he is talking about, such as the inspection and NZa, were involved in?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u407	I don't know. The fact that there were financial problems has been known for some time, but I do not know whether that suspension was discussed at another table before October 18th. On the day when we were completing the budget debate here, the first message came in. I spoke about this at VWS on the day after we had completed the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u408	Clear. Does the answer to Mrs Van den Berg's questions give any reason to follow up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u409	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I understood that the Minister had finished answering the questions put by the CDA, but I am still looking at three points. Firstly, we have heard that patients are now on waiting lists because there is no capacity in other hospitals. Secondly, how is it guaranteed that electronic medical records will be kept and available? Thirdly, what is the role of the College's rehabilitation care institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u410	I shall begin with the question on the role of the College rehabilitation care institutions. That college supervises the sale or rental of real estate and checks whether this is done at a market price. This also applies in the event of bankruptcy. The curator must report a plan to sell or rent to the college. The college then assesses the transparency of the sales process and also checks whether a market price is paid. Mr. Chairman. As far as waiting lists are concerned, in hospitals, medical specialists are working very hard to get a picture of all patients. The aim is to ensure that the treatments are as slow as possible. Other hospitals have already made room in the OK program over the past week to perform certain operations. The transfer of patients shall take into account the medical urgency of initiating or continuing treatment. Treatments that need to be initiated or continued as a matter of urgency are therefore taken up as a matter of priority. This is an important element of the phasing-out plans that hospitals have to draw up and coordinate with health insurers, but, of course, even if treatment is less urgent, patients should be able to be seen as soon as possible. The healthcare intermediary department also has an important role to play in this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the issue of medical records. For this purpose, there is a statutory retention period of 15 years. The health care provider is responsible for this. In the event of bankruptcy, the curator also has a responsibility as the current director. As long as someone's still a patient at a hospital, the file stays there. If a patient is transferred to another hospital, the file will also be transferred. Should a hospital close completely, the curator must ensure that the files are kept in another place and can be inspected or requested there. That task shall be monitored by the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u411	Enough? Yes. I have the impression that Mrs Ellemeet would like to return to the question raised by the previous speaker. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u412	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to Mrs Ploumen's question. I want to make sure I heard the Minister right. Did the Minister say that neither he nor his officials received any signal before 18 October that there was a risk of a suspension being requested?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u413	I replied to Mrs Ploumen that on the Thursday on which we had the budget debate, the first report on the possibility of a suspension was presented. I discussed that signal at my ministry after the budget debate on Friday. Then there was consultation with the health insurance company and the board of directors of the hospital during the weekend. On Monday we discussed this at my table, on the staff. Those are the messages as I know them about the suspension of payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u414	Clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u415	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u416	The follow-up question, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u417	Yes, thank you. Then let me rephrase the question. Has the Minister, before 18 October, received signals from those concerned that there was a risk that there would be a suspension or that this situation would arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u418	There have been several signals in recent years about the precarious financial situation of both hospitals. At my table there was never any exchange of the word'sursion' or 'bankruptcy'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u419	Sounds clear to me. The Minister continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u420	Let's see, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking a little bit in my papers right now. Excuse me, I need to get my papers in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u421	It happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u422	It happens. I would have stayed with Mrs Ploumen's questions. After Mrs Ploumen, as a speaker, Mr Segers came to my attention. I'm looking through the pile now. I think that Mr Segers' questions have now been answered. Then Mrs Ellemeet: can the Minister guarantee that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u423	One moment, Minister. Mrs Marijnissen, I suggest that you ask your questions after the Minister has completed the reply. You've had a lot of interruptions; much more than we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u424	But this is really about something from actuality. Because at the time when the minister was looking into his papers, we got another message on our calls about the situation around...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u425	Yes, but I suggest we do that at the end of the answer. That streamlines the meeting a little bit. So this is not a rejection of your question, but a delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u426	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ellemeet has asked whether the Minister can ensure that the geriatric section of the Slotervaart will be transferred entirely with funding to another hospital nearby. It is indeed being worked on in this way. It's heading in the right direction, but I can't give you the final report on that yet. But it is the aim that this section can be retained as a whole. Then there is Mrs Ellemeet's question about adjusting joint and several liability. I want to involve that in the financial investigation I'm about to launch. That seems important to me. The same applies to the reasonable period of time for the bankruptcy. I think I have said this to you a number of times in this debate. I think it is important that there is room for me to act on this, and then I would like to say that your question was also whether there could be a crisis budget in any form. I have now answered Mrs Sazias' questions. I have also answered Mr Raemakers' questions, if I see correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u427	There is now an opportunity for Mrs Marijnissen to ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u428	Yes, thank you. We get the message that the health insurance company is on its way to the curator to investigate exactly the situation in Slotervaart and the potentially life-threatening situation, and that the health insurance company will explain later this afternoon exactly what is happening. My question to the Minister is, firstly, is he going to give that insight into the debate? And two: does he also realize that we really need that in order to have the confidence that this minister is in control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u429	That I will seek out the information I have promised you before, so that question will stand. I'd like to have the specialist on the line. And after the expiry of this first term, I begin to understand myself with the specialist, if not by someone in my area, so that I may inform you of this at the beginning of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u430	The chaos is getting bigger and bigger. We're dealing with a minister who said he didn't know first. That's when he found out. Now he says he can't find it in the system, but he's gonna find it. In the meantime, we are getting all kinds of information through the media, which apparently can be talked about. It doesn't help with the image that a minister is in control or wants to be in control, or he listens to the people who do the work. You can say that you can't find a notification in the system. I could also say that you can also contact the people who do the work. They can tell you perfectly well that it is not possible to refer these people properly to other hospitals. They can tell you what the acute problems are now. That is what we are asking this Minister to do. Stop searching systems, but talk to the people involved!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u431	That's exactly what I'm doing. You've asked if a report has come in. Actually, I need to be able to check that. At the moment that report is not available and the curator says that he does not know or does not yet know, I think I should speak to the healthcare provider in question. That is what I have said to you, and that is what I want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u432	I suggest we finish with that. Mrs. Agema has another order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u433	I propose that the Minister give his response to the two life-threatening situations reported, not in his second term, but after the suspension and before the start of the second term of the Chamber. Then we can take his reaction with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u434	This means that the proposal is to suspend now, that the Minister should be given the opportunity, in the meantime, to clarify the two situations at stake, and that the Minister should be given the first opportunity, as a kind of extended first period, to respond to them after the suspension. Then comes the second term. This is supported by the participants in the debate? I see a nod in agreement. Mrs Van den Berg would like to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u435	We were just informed by e-mail that questions were asked by the CDA in Amstelveen about the hospital Amstelland, also because of the financial situation. I would appreciate it if the Minister could take that into account in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u436	I support it, but there is also one question I have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u437	You're still welcome to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u438	Thank you. Do you want me to do that right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u439	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u440	My tenth question to the Minister was whether he was going to help Slotervaart's doctors and Slotervaart's patients to be held liable, because, of course, people have really gotten into trouble and dangerous situations have arisen from the sudden disappearance of that concern. Is he willing to help people to hold the directors of the Slotervaart liable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u441	Mr President, I would like to provide this technical question with a technical answer. If I may, I would also like to do so at the start of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u442	Clear, thank you. Mrs Ellemeet has another interruption, or a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u443	Yeah, a question that hasn't been answered yet. I have asked the Minister whether he would like to examine the possibility of setting up a director of demonstrably maladministration in a hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u444	I will therefore take it with me at the beginning of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u445	Mrs. Sazias, can I get you another singing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u446	Another unanswered question, Mr. Chairman. I asked the Minister to respond to the motion from the States of Flevoland. What's he gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u447	I thought I actually answered it extensively. To all of you, I have said that I am committed to maintaining basic care, emergency care and acute obstetrics for Lelystad together with health insurers and other parties. Then it is not just a question of whether that is possible, but also of how that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-3.u448	Clear, thank you. There's a need for suspension. I suggest you do that for half an hour. That gives you the opportunity to use your late lunch. That prevents you from going beyond all kinds of unhealthy snacks. There will then be an arrangement of work. The Minister will then be the first to address the questions that remain open and the situation as outlined. The second term of office will then be filled in. I suspect you'll experience the joy of another president. I'm suspending this meeting.
