ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS for his question on the criticism by the College of Human Rights of the Cabinet for the neglect of the Caribbean Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have three questions. Firstly, the Human Rights College proposes that the inhabitants of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba, three Dutch municipalities, be treated as second-hand citizens. That seems to me to be a serious accusation against the cabinet. What is the reaction of the cabinet to that? The second question is: do you agree with 50PLUS that no distinction should be made between the European Netherlands and the Caribbean Netherlands in terms of the system of social security? Is it not therefore reasonable for a social minimum for the Caribbean Netherlands to be set soon? My third question concerns the following. In the coming period, the cabinet will focus on further improving the socio-economic development of the Caribbean Netherlands. That's in the long run. Fine, but how come living standards are so low? What is the cabinet going to do? How do these actions lead to a higher standard of living?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I am aware of the statement made by the College and the cabinet does not agree with that. I myself have been on the islands in question and have actually spoken with the authorities and the people to inform me of the situation. There is, on the contrary, a great deal of attention to the specific problems relating to each of these islands. Then I'll come to your other two questions, Mr. Krol. I'll treat it in one, if you don't mind. As a cabinet, we are aware of the urgency of the problem. That is why we announced in June 2018 a package of concrete measures, including a 5% reduction in employers' costs, so that wages and benefits can be increased, an increase in income for people living independently and a 50% increase in family allowances. These are three measures that will start on 1 January 2019. In addition, the introduction of a supplement for single pensioners and an increase in the disability allowance and the introduction of a form of compensation for the high housing costs have been proposed. These are two measures that require further legislation, so they will take a little more time to be introduced. This is a selection of the measures announced by this cabinet in June 2018. The College of Human Rights says above all that the cabinet does not yet set a minimum social level. This point has also been discussed with your Chamber before, including in the debates with it earlier this year, in September/October. The cabinet says that from the research of the Region Plan that has not yet been made there is a conclusion that can be translated one-on-one into a social minimum. For example, spending on living on Bonaire is between 0 and 900 dollars. Then there is the question of how to set a fair social minimum. That must be meaningful, fair and just to all people. Finally, Mr President. We have chosen to regard these research results as an objective to which we must take concrete steps. There's gonna be a progress report. Your room has been promised and it will come before the summer of 2019. Then, in accordance with the Van der Graaf motion, the Secretary of State for the Interior and, of course, the Secretary of State for the Interior will again discuss this with your two Chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yes, Minister. It is not only the Members of Parliament who are supposed to keep to their speaking time, but also the Minister. Then Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	The minister says he's been to the islands himself. Well, I can shake his hand. We have been there with the Permanent Chambers Committee. For example, we went shopping in a supermarket there, while at the same time the same shopping list was also carried to the supermarket in the Netherlands and the same groceries were made here in a supermarket. Well, I can assure you the price difference is huge. I have seen with my own eyes how great poverty is there, especially behind the front door. People have a beautiful front yard and on the outside they act like nothing's going on, but people really live there, really in poverty. The fact is that that social minimum has still not been set. The minister's predecessor, Mrs Klijnsma, said that this should be done as soon as possible, but that there should be an investigation first. I'm hearing exactly the same thing now. Sounds like a circular reasoning to me. I think something must be done urgently now. You announce that something will happen on 1 January next year and that the rest of what you are proposing will take longer. The people there need help now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	It's not still the same. I have identified a number of concrete measures, as examples announced as of 1 June 2018, and I have explained that some measures require legislation. The sooner we can determine it with your chamber and the upper chamber, the better. I am not going to repeat what I said earlier on the social minimum, also because of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'm sorry there's nothing more to take out than this. I think the people on the islands are very disappointed about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	The House of Representatives said so. The First Chamber said so. We need a social minimum on Saba, Statia and Bonaire. The island council members told me. All the aid organisations on the islands have said so. There must be a social minimum. Such a stack of research has been carried out into the increasing poverty on the islands. Everyone says that there must be a social minimum. How does the government intend to put all this aside and say: we know better and we do not care about Parliament; we do not care about the aid workers and the scientists? When's the social minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	As I said in my first term, the cabinet, seeing that there are difficulties in setting a minimum social level, has said that it is going to take measures to improve the socio-economic conditions there significantly. It has been agreed with your Chamber, in debates in September, October, that there will be a report for the summer of 2019, which, if it is right, will clarify what that social minimum might be. In the meantime, we have not been idle and measures have been taken to give concrete support to the people of the islands on a number of points. So I cannot go along with Mr Van Raak's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	What a weak bite. It's really lame, empathetic, numb. I've been there in the last autumn recess. I talked to people there, too. I wonder which people have spoken to the minister I haven't spoken to. If such a situation would occur in a Dutch municipality, grab'm bite Assen, we would not accept that at all and all MPs would stand here at the interrupt microphone to do something about it, directly! I ask the Minister whether he thinks it is acceptable that people on Bonaire should take two jobs, or even three jobs, in order to make ends meet. Does the Minister think that's acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have explained what measures this cabinet has already taken and are about to be taken. I have also explained that agreements have been made with your Chamber on a progress report on setting the social minimum. If that gets the qualifications that Mr Kuzu gives it, then unfortunately I cannot do very much with that, because that is exactly what we want to get into.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	Drops on a glowing plate are it. Let's get an example out of it. Family allowances shall be increased by 50%. That sounds so good: 50% increase! The bottom line is a bunch of the money people have to spend on St.Maarten for the livelihood of their children. If we stand for this equality and consider the Caribbean Netherlands as our fellow citizens, as a municipality, then I ask the Minister once again: does he think it is acceptable that people should take two, three jobs to get around, to feed their children, to get a roof over their head...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	...and all that kind of basic necessities? I didn't hear about that. Acceptable, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	I believe that everyone within the Empire is entitled to a dignified existence. The cabinet is committed to this and will do everything in its power to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	The Minister is getting rid of the human rights situation a little easily. The Human Rights College knows that the measures mentioned by the Minister are going to be taken. Nevertheless, it says that citizens there are treated as second-class citizens. Then I come to the duty of care of the government when it comes to ensuring the survival of all its inhabitants in the Kingdom. How does this duty relate to the remarkably high cost of living, I mention a few costs: energy, care, housing, education, and the measures to reduce those costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	The cabinet is committed to an equivalent level of provision that fits within the specific context of the Caribbean Netherlands. That principle of equality shall apply subject to the principle of differentiation laid down in Article 121a of the Constitution. In that context, I then explained that, looking at the situation in June 2008, I repeat, the Cabinet announced a package of concrete measures, some of which will start on 1 January. In the meantime, the cabinet has agreed with your Chamber on what should be a fair standard for a social minimum. Because empathy isn't just saying something has to happen. Empathy also means that you do justice to all the islanders there within the good proportions. That's what the Cabinet is doing. It has also been agreed in debates with your Chamber that it will be discussed soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	People on the islands have been Dutch citizens for eight years. We've been waiting a long time for that standard. We need a date. When can this Chamber expect that standard? When can it be discussed here? When is the proposal from this cabinet coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	The BZK colleague has agreed with your Chamber that the progress report will be before the summer of next year and that your Chamber will then be asked how we will complete it. It is then up to your Chamber, in consultation with BZK's colleague, to establish this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you.
