ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u1	I will reopen the meeting and give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, thank you. I really have the feeling that I now have the pleasure of getting on a train on the second-last station, while the people present here have been on that train for a long time. In fact, this process started with STROOM in 2015. Then it was rejected. A new proposal was made in December. In 2016, there were strong discussions, including with the Council of State, about the coal power plants. At that time, the Chamber added the obligation to connect through various amendments, after which the proposal was declared controversial. Well, it's a party! In the meantime, I have done so, but many here will recognize that I was truly endless, but also endlessly lobbied on this law with all sorts of opposite things. Tesla can learn from that violence; it's like war. That is why I am very pleased with the very substantive, meaningful and specific comments made by the Chamber. I wanted to answer them through the five topics that are most common. Then I just have to walk past the input of the attendees in my own notes and see if I've done you justice everywhere. I'm sure that won't be the case. If you don't hear your answer coming through, it's at the end. I always do my best. I shall begin with the obligation to connect, on which amendments have also been tabled. Then I'll get to the side activities. Thirdly, questions have been asked about the experiments. Cables will of course be discussed, as will cross-participants. Finally, there is the range of other questions, partly somewhat overlapping with the other subjects, because a human being can't be witches either. Mr. Chairman. Natural gas-free: the House has made this clear through amendments. The wish is clear that new neighbourhoods should in principle no longer be given gas. That makes sense, because in the context of the energy transition we are going to ask residents and municipalities together how they can get rid of the gas. Then it makes no sense to put a new neighborhood on the gas. At the same time, if there is a single new house in existing neighbourhoods, it is always important to ensure that that house can be used efficiently with the neighbourhood approach. There you could say for a short time: that's all you have to do. In fact, if you split up a house, it's gonna be a new place. Then you have to go into a split apartment and do something while you want to take it all into the neighborhood approach. No one's gonna be against that. Several questions have been asked about this. Mrs Mulder has also seen an amendment tabled and asks me if I would be prepared to send the ministerial arrangement that is envisaged to the Chamber. Yeah, I'll do that at the same time as the Internet consultation. That seems to me to be an appropriate time. She also asked for an evaluation after two years. That seems useful to me, because we are really working on something new here. It's so new in this field, that we actually have to constantly check to see if it's true. An important question is that of closing costs. It is an incentive that no one intuitively understands: you want to get rid of the gas and then you have to pay for it. That's not helping. Ideally, we thought 50 years ago that you had to increase the connection costs immediately with the future closing costs, but we didn't do that 50 years ago. There is, in itself, the question of what we need to do with this, but here too, we have this neighbourhood approach. By far the largest number of closures, perhaps almost all, will take place in the context of a district approach. I think we need to think a little bit more about how to integrate that into such a neighbourhood approach. We could take that into account in the Energy Act 1.0, which we are going to deal with within this cabinet period in not too long. This is what I wanted to take with me, because it's really a broader question. This isn't just about the one who needs to get rid of the gas, because we all need to get rid of the gas. I would like to take this point into account. A grant scheme in between does not seem to me to be the means, because this district approach is a very large-scale exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u3	I see that Mrs Van Tongeren wishes to interrupt, but I would suggest that you finish your general introduction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u4	These were a bit of the questions about this. The House has taken the initiative; there is also an initiative legislative proposal. The Chamber has tabled more text on this than I have. These were the questions about this. I'm sure I'll miss a few, but I'll get to that. A question could now be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u5	I have a question about the cost of closing a gas connection. Right now, there are forerunners, pioneers. Someone who cooks on induction in a house where a gas line runs, has to replace his resume and decide to opt for cogeneration or something else. These people, the pioneers you actually want to encourage, are at that high cost. And those costs have increased over the last two years. Would the Minister be prepared to see if those costs could be socialized in any way, so that you would encourage the pioneer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u6	I'm gonna step in anyway, 'cause...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u7	I have just indicated that I prefer to take this with me in the other context. If there are other ideas about that, then the Chamber has all kinds of means to let you know, but I want to make the big shots, I want to have it clean in one go. Then everyone has perspective and clarity. Otherwise, we're gonna stick around a little bit in smaller things. Again, I'd like to take care of it in one go, bigger. Then there's the side business. Perhaps two statements by Mr Van der Lee, who has now disappeared...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u8	He's here and he's listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u9	Aha. Look, Mr. Van der Lee sketches the balance very nicely. He says that network companies are sometimes forced to be pioneers, while at the same time asking for proper organization. He also shows himself a fan of Rumsfeld. I'm gonna go with that equation. It's the known unknowns that we can lay down in the law. It's the unknown unknowns you need an AMvB with exceptions for. There is, of course, another way of doing this, not in conjunction with those network companies, the experimental space available for it. We need to give space to things that come up in all kinds of ways, because we don't know what we don't know yet. At the same time, however, we need to clarify what is happening now. Let me get this straight. We are talking about monopolists, we are talking about organisations that are funded with public money. They are tied to tasks that we cannot miss. If we go along with all kinds of other activities, then we see that market activities that can be risky use very solid assets that belong to all of us. That creates a number of things that are not desirable. First of all, this will allow artificially low discount rates to be applied at the Community's cost for activities which the market itself can do. That creates unnecessary risks. It creates unfair competition. But it can also cause market players to have uncertainty about what these public companies are allowed to do and to sit on their own backs. I would be very sorry to hear that, because I am not convinced that all salvation must always come from public enterprises, to use a euphemism. I am now looking at Mrs Yeşilgöz, who knows what I mean by this euphemism. But we must be flexible and open our eyes to things that may one day be able to be caught permanently or at least temporarily by these organisations. We need to be open to that. But we need to be sharp about what's right and what's not right. Because honestly, if an SME in the Netherlands feels the threat of a network company competing with him with public money, we are not encouraging SMEs in this area. So I want to stick to this two-way: on the one hand, security where it is possible for the know-how but, on the other hand, openness and flexibility for the unknown unknowns of Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u10	I can follow the Minister's reasoning very far-reachingly, but I would like to comment on those unknown unknowns. If we limit it to that, that also happens because all of this is taken into account while we are dealing with the law, I think we are doing something meaningful. This is really about new, innovative things. I can see the risks, but they only arise when initiatives are successful and scaled up. But in most cases, it doesn't work. There's gonna be a lot of failure. Then it's a shame that you don't even try to introduce something new because it takes a very complicated process before you get permission to look at it at all. I do not really see how this freedom is really a threat to market distortion in this case, because that has also been included in the amendment and the ACM is man enough to take action against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u11	Perhaps this is Mr Van der Lee's way of getting back to Mr Moorlag's point: can we not just give ex post approval instead of prior authorisation? That's probably what he means. But that's actually an even greater uncertainty. That's uncertainty for two parties. SMEs may fear that they will be competitive with public money and the company that starts something will eventually have no certainty whether it is well spent, because you can always be tapped on your fingers afterwards. I think that in the climate agreement we should also keep an eye on things that are now inevitable. They'll get up there. One day there will be a moment when unknown unknowns are known unknowns or even known. Mr Rumsfeld will agree with Mr Van der Lee. And that's the time to act. We should, but I would really be careful... the market also needs to be protected from the government. We do that because of these two cases. I think that we should include in the climate agreement a moment when we are scratching our heads and wondering what AMvB is needed and what extensions are needed. But there will also be other legislative issues. Our country is constantly changing. We are standing here in one piece dealing with legislation because our country and the world are changing. We will continue to do so, but I am committed to providing a basis of security for Dutch companies, which do not want to be competitive away from taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr Bishop referred to the period of origin of the SGP 100 years ago when the electricity companies were emerging. It is a good thing that at that time there was no government so rigid that she said: we ban municipalities and provinces from producing electricity because it affects the SMEs in the petroleum trade. Sometimes there is something that the market doesn't pick up because it doesn't yield enough returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u13	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u14	My question to the Minister is: does he recognize that gap? And could he be a little more flexible in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u15	It's useful if you speak a little more in the microphone, because it's a shame if the rest of you can't follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u16	Sometimes there is something that the market doesn't pick up. In those cases, we have agreed on a procedure. That's the way it is. But what does that have to do with the 100-year existence of a party? Yesterday, my party celebrated its 70th birthday. But the department I'm a member of did that the day before yesterday, because it was founded one day earlier. However, I will not rely on this when proposing AMvBs. Mr Moorlag and I may come from a different political direction, but I agree with him remarkably enough that there are things that the market is not picking up properly. We have agreed that we can allow this via an AMvB to network companies. That's what we have to do. We must keep an open eye on this. Let's keep an active eye on that, because we're all sure things will come up. But which one, that's unknown. Several spokesmen, among others from the Party for Animals and SP, establish a relationship between the experimental space and the exhaustive list. I don't think that relationship's gonna work out. That experimental space is about things that you can deviate from in the Electricity Act and the Gas Act, and the exhaustive list is just about permitted activities of the network company. Those are other things. They also do not come together in the subject that is much discussed in relation to this main topic, namely building-related funding. Let me stand here among the believers of building-related funding. I believe that if we want to make a switch from a high energy bill to a higher investment, which is ideally designed as a kind of straight-forward thing that sticks to a building. We all see the logic, and the search is ongoing. In fact, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has no less: the Deputy Prime Minister has this under her control. She has promised to send a letter on this before the summer. Because I myself may not only be curious but perhaps a bit impatient, I also sometimes talk to representatives of BZK about this, who share my impatience. This is important. Not a bad word about that. We need to find a solution to that. Does that have to be in the network company? In the extreme, if we don't come up with something else, we can always think about it, but I find that very illogical at first. So we're going to redeem private property owners from their energy bill with public capital that hasn't been made available at all for that purpose, which has never been earmarked for that purpose. Of course, I also speak with very authoritative representatives with good ideas about the housing transition that even the network operator wants to put down. I know the ideas, but let's start by looking at the logical possibilities. There are all kinds of building-related funding. It's not like we don't have anything in that area. There are pilots. There's a known pilot in Deventer. There are all kinds of parties that contribute to this. So it's not that it can't be done, but just when you see who needs to participate in the Deventer experiment to make that possible, you know that's not easy. You want to make this easy. My call is this one. It doesn't belong here. It has absolutely nothing to do with the experimental space. But we do want it taken care of. I also have a special interest, because since there is a need to rebuild houses in Groningen, I attach particular importance to it, and the Groningers with me, that we take the climate forecast into account immediately. This requires a form of building-related funding for many people, including in Groningen. I am therefore very much in favour of this. I'm busy burning everybody up, but this isn't the place to settle it, that's what I'm convinced of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u17	I think it is clear what the Minister is saying about this. To me, it raises one question. It is about the process of negotiating at the tables and how the financial sector is proactively involved. Because they are certainly in the picture to provide the capital for this building-related financing. Can you tell me anything about how you're gonna organize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u18	Yes, but I do get into the danger zone, because the number of common hobbies of mine and Mr Van der Lee is getting politically dangerous. I don't know if that's worse for him or for me. It could hurt both of us, too. The financing of this transition is of particular importance. This involves high social costs during a transition period. Funding is particularly important. Yes, the financial sector has been invited. It's all planned. Horizontally across the sector tables all play funding issues. This is really just one. The financial sector has responded very enthusiastically from several representatives, but I also told them that the answer ultimately lies not only in enthusiasm but also in ideas. We also just want solutions to finance issues. Period. In all these tables, that's what happens. I'd like that very much. But they're excited; I want to have said that. Let's see... someone's texting me right now; I don't need to do that right now. Several examples have been mentioned. Can network companies do this or that? One of these is data, for example. Mrs Dik-Faber asked: what role can a network company have in the field of data? The very first and most obvious that has a role in the field of data is the customer. The customer owns the data. It is up to the customer to determine whether and, if so, how he makes that data available to market participants, who can provide services on this basis, for example, to spread electricity consumption or to save in a variety of ways. The client is central. Market parties will start offering their services in a variety of ways, as we know from data. In many other areas, market players use data in ten different ways. This seems to me to be a very useful way, but I do not think that a role in this for the network company as an exclusive user or as a commercial co-user would be obvious. Another activity where much... I see that Mrs Dik-Faber wants to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u19	You were working on the part of "experiments"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u20	I'm not quite done with this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u21	Then I would suggest that you finish this first. Then I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u22	The experiments were only part of it. I'm still working on the side jobs of the network companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u23	The secondary activities. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u24	One of them is about the loading posts. Mr Bishop, Mrs Yeşilgöz and Mr Jetten asked a question about this. They basically asked: is that even obvious? This was obvious at the time of the discussion. It is still obvious that there is still a network company that has such activities under it. I know there's a sale there. I must say that this may have been useful in the initial phase, but I think, in all honesty, that we should reconsider this in some time. I really do. That is also what the various spokesmen are suggesting, for which I am grateful. This illustration shows how fast this happens. My proposal is to reconsider this under the Energy Act 1.0. I think this House's alert point is particularly good. I'd rather have thought of it myself two weeks ago, but you beat me to it. Mr Jetten of D66 asked about the use of sustainable cars and balance-sheet responsibility. He shall discuss this in relation to the tasks of the system operator. The balance sheet responsibility does not lie with a network operator, and certainly not with a network operator. It can only lie with someone who takes electricity or feeds it. Well, that's not here. This responsibility never lies with network operators or network companies. Nor, as far as I am concerned, should they go along with that. There are all kinds of market players involved in this balance sheet activity. There are all kinds of market players that bring supply and demand together in one way or another. Those are private parties that need to get that space, too. Another question is about drinking water. Mr Van der Lee asked what was really going on. I'm gonna be honest with you. Something went wrong here, and this is a mistake. That's what you have with a walk-through from 2015. The buck goes to Mr. Van der Lee. I'll try to include that in the Energy Act 1.0. It doesn't hurt, nothing goes wrong, but we can fix it properly. I do so in consultation with the Vewin and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. Then we have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u25	Then we have Mrs. Fat-Faber, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u26	I believe that I am through the questions in the field of secondary activities. If we look at this again in a year's time, we will have another discussion, because this is not static.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u27	I would like to come back to building-related financing. In my perception, it's happening now. The Minister himself referred to this. There are experiments in Deventer, but also in other places in the Netherlands. We're really still trying to figure out what a good model is. I had the idea that this law here within the experimental space would give further direction. But I hear the Minister now saying that is not the intention. My question is then: when? There are fine words in the coalition agreement and I would very much like us to speed this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u28	It's not like that's not supposed to happen. It's just not a consequence of it. The experimental space is intended to grant certain exemptions under the Electricity Act and the Gas Act and these in themselves do not constitute an obstacle to building-related financing. So it's not like it's not meant to be. As far as I'm concerned, it's my eternal intention to remove obstacles to building-related funding, but it just doesn't follow from this experimental space. I think we need to look closely at which models there are for building-related funding and whether we should make it possible. In fact, at the end of the climate agreement talks, we might even see that some possible solutions are illogical or ugly in themselves. It has happened many times that we have to offer illogical or ugly solutions, but first I want to look for the beautiful and logical solutions. But in the end, we want this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u29	Sure. I think we are unanimous in our agreement that building-related financing should come from the ground. But this bill makes choices about the tasks of network companies, network operators and market players. Do these choices not stand in the way of developments in building-related financing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u30	At least that has nothing to do with the experiment room. You can only say that it has to do with the list, the tasks you want to give to network companies. But, once again, in the extreme, we could be forced to think about a very ugly measure. It is also quite illogical that network companies should do this building-related financing. First, I want to look at logical and more beautiful solutions. It is public-bound capital, with the special aim of keeping a highly necessary and monopolistic activity in the air, and it is not really appropriate to carry out all kinds of other financing activities, such as those for private homes, for example. That is really bad, and that is really ugly, but the main thing is that we want building-related funding to come off the ground. But I do not want to cut off the Minister for Foreign Affairs by offering ugly solutions here, while she is still working on the beautiful solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u31	I have another question, but I do not know whether it really belongs to the secondary activities or whether it falls within the definition of the transport of heat. My question is about steam. It is about setting up a network in which steam is transported. Is that a side effect? Or can this be seen as one of the main activities of a network operator?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u32	I believe that this is part of the network operator's activities. On the part of my officials, I see no yes and no no. Probably just wrong. We're gonna give you the right answer in the second term. On the experimental space itself, Mr Moorlag has asked whether it is not overly bureaucratic. He works in the public domain for a long time. This is an eight-week procedure. I believe that few governments have only eight-week lead times for this type of business. These are also issues that play a role in construction, for example. There the planning time is considerably longer than eight weeks. I do not think that the eight-week deadline is overly bureaucratic. I look at Mr Moorlag; he weighs his input a little longer. I'll be on the power lines. In this bill, an article has been added that allows the cabling underground or relocation at the request of a municipality or a province. The goal is clear: the environment is relieved and it looks a lot nicer. This has been discussed for a very long time with the Platform High voltage of the municipalities of the municipalities of the municipality, under various names, including the Platform High voltage, but also with the provinces, and there has been a certain arrangement. The main thing I think is that this local contribution should be there. Why do I think that? There is a lot of talk here about whether we should not socialise costs. Yes, at least 75%, but in many cases 85% of the costs are socialised, but you also have to weigh up at local level. If we socialise 100% of the costs, we will decide everywhere to do things underground, including where we socialize or where the citizens concerned would rather make other choices. Everyone has taken that into account in his speech. So it's got to be something. The question is what "something" is. Let me take the specific example of Veenendaal. There we have the 25%, but we also have the maximum per kilometer. If you stay below these ceilings and look at how long that route is and what amounts are involved, then it is not 25% but 15% of the costs. The maximum is 25%, but in many cases this is of course lower because of the maximum mileage. This means that municipalities in the order of 15% to 25% pay themselves, and that 75% to 85% of the costs are socialised. That's a hell of a percentage. If I had said "half/half" at first, you would have said: why isn't it 75%? There must be a certain local contribution, which has really been achieved in consultation with these parties. We naturally have local authorities in mind for this. Who are the local authorities? Those aren't just the municipalities, they're the provinces. Probably the municipalities have also thought that those provinces will participate in it. That makes sense. The MPs then asked how this minister would charge these provinces with an account. He's not gonna do that, because I'm not the boss of the other governments. They are co-governments, they are their own democracies with members in councils and states, who are just as proud of that job, who are just as much popular representative as the members here. That's what they're all about in the end. However, a joint consultation has been launched by the department, including the IPO and that platform, to see if these parties can engage more in this. Then it is very obvious not to do so per municipality, but more territorially. I think Jetten suggested that, too. That is very obvious, but we should not prescribe it from here. It is precisely the fact that co-governments are offered a choice, not to our subordinates, but also to our fellow governments, that we must leave that choice to the co-governments and cannot do more than point out to the parties that we would like them to resolve it together, preferably in a field-based way. So I wanted to be a little cautious in that regard. Perhaps that restraint would automatically fit with the members of this Chamber, because there are also things that we are unfortunately not talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u33	I have one specific question on this. When do local authorities have to put that money on the table? Do they have that in time? Because we are talking about investments that last for a very long time and have a very long period of depreciation. Can this also be spread over time or pre-financed, so that you can avoid bottlenecks in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u34	That is an interesting question, which Mr Van der Lee asked in the first term. I don't have the answer to that yet. I'll check in the second period to see if this thought already has supporters. It's at least one! Then a sidewalk, but not an insignificant sidewalk. It's a sidewalk that I'm rather involved with and which I'm not slightly opposed to either. This concerns, for example, new pipes, such as the 380kV line in the North. A motion has been adopted on this: the Van Veldhoven motion. My predecessor did the same. That motion called for this particular high-voltage line to be either underground or a package of compensatory landscape measures. At that time, there was an administratively extensive discussion of this. I even think that high-voltage lines are in some respects easier than damage protocols and have been chosen by all parties for a package of measures. That package has a value of 15 million. That's what they chose and not the cabling. Despite this, the procedure is, of course, being followed: there is still room for appeal. Maybe that's what the organisations choose, but the choice of route has been completed. That was the choice of the drivers. We know, of course, that not everyone will be equally pleased with every choice, even since parties have very different interests here and there, sometimes privately and sometimes from an organisation. But the motion has been carried out. It has also been properly consulted with the region, and this is what came out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u35	Let's talk about the wiring. I know the situation of Veenendaal well and it is quite similar to other situations in the country when it comes to affordability. I am also thinking of Rotterdam, which I think one of the neighbourhoods has to do with, but I am also thinking of the municipality of Molenwaard. The Minister also undoubtedly knows all the municipalities that have gathered in that platform. But it's just about millions. Municipalities can't cough them up, so Mr Van der Lee's question is just very interesting. I see how many municipalities are struggling to carry out their social tasks and often have to cut back on them. They're gonna get a million-dollar call here anyway. In the Veenendaal situation, the figure is 5 million on a budget of 180 million. That's a fair amount of money, isn't it? Can the Minister imagine that, if the power is not for Veenendaal but for Utrecht, a city like Utrecht will pay for it, the province will also move and not only can you put the burden on the municipality that has the high voltage cables over its houses?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u36	I can imagine that very well, but I am not in charge of that. I can imagine it well and therefore I also attach great importance to the fact that the provinces are talking about this with the municipalities. That initiative has been taken, and that conversation is ongoing. But I do not think it is appropriate, not even in other areas, to make statements here in this Chamber about what provinces or individual municipalities should embrace. It's not my call. I'm gonna have to distance myself from that. In general, however, I can say that it would be a good idea for the other authorities to come to this kind of agreement from a regional or provincial point of view, taking into account the interests of municipalities. Yeah, I can imagine. But I'm not gonna lecture individual municipalities or provinces on what they should find. I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u37	In addition to a municipal interest, I think there is also an interest that this minister has. Because this arrangement has been rigged, and of course we want, like the Minister, to be successful. If municipalities say in practice that they want to but that this is really too much, can the Minister sit back and say "you have to coordinate" but he does need the scheme to succeed? Does he not intend to at least call the parties together and say, "Make sure that there is a solution?" It would be a real shame if we had to say at the end of this Minister's term of office, I hope, for a long time to come: well, very little has actually moved. The Minister doesn't want that, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u38	And he's just getting started!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u39	That summoning has happened, like I said. But when did the scheme succeed? Do you think it's a success if everyone decides that the pipes are all going underground? Or has the scheme been successful if the parties come to a proper balance, including with the finances in the picture? It may well be that in this society we sometimes prefer to spend money on things other than the grounding of cables. For me, the scheme is successful if an appropriate consideration is made in the public domain, if that consideration is possible and if it is felt, also in the financial sense, by the parties that directly benefit from it. It is not the case that the scheme has only been successful for me if all the cables go underground. Then we might as well have said: boys, it's gonna be expensive, but we're gonna put everything under the ground for free. Then we would have designed another arrangement. My definition of "slaps" is that there is a good discussion between the directors and the interested authorities about the consideration. That consideration could also be: we are not doing it. That is also a sensible consideration. Because you can't do everything. Some things eventually you don't want to do, if you know what it costs. That's "successful" for me. That means we have to let everyone bear part of that cost. The call for socialisation is thus already 75% to 85%, because that is now the percentage. I find that in itself orderly. I think it's a very orderly arrangement. My predecessor put it together. I might have been a little sourer, but that's who I am. I find it very orderly and I think that this consideration should take place now. I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that these governments should discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u40	I'd like to come back to that 380kV line. I am aware that an agreement has been reached between the local and provincial authorities and the ministry and TenneT, but that was not my point. My point was that the world looked different in the Eemshaven. Where there were originally three plants planned, one stopped and one...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u41	The question was, is it still necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u42	Yeah, what else is useful and necessary? We have now gone deep into the funnel, but sometimes there is a moment when you think: I have to go back to the edge and take a good look at the world at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u43	That's right. That is what Mr Moorlag has asked for. Since the debate was not officially about this, it takes some time to find the answers in question. I do not know whether that will be possible in this debate. But I promise him he's gonna get some kind of answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u44	If the Minister wants to sign a letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u45	No, I'll give him an answer. That answer comes in the second period, in a letter or in another way. The question has been asked. It's a good question, but he wasn't officially part of the debate. That's why it might take me a little longer to get the answer. But not a bad word about the question. Sometimes Mr Moorlag looks very strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u46	He always looks very strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u47	Well, that's not true. I'm coming to cross-participants. Cross participation, and cross-border cross participation, is linked to the fact that, especially with the sustainability and energy transition, energy supply is far from national and not regional. It really is going to be a European market. If the wind is blowing in Germany or if the sun is shining in Spain, then we must be able to get rid of that energy. Electricity networks have broader interests and should also cooperate more broadly than is currently the case. Cross participations go beyond partnerships or joint ventures. When it comes to very large amounts, it is sometimes also very useful to take over those equity interests. The interests will then be levelled up and, therefore, more stable, but also long-term financial cooperation will be created. Of course, we are already seeing the first cross-border actions. But of course Mrs Dik-Faber's question is: what about control? She also takes the word "leakage" in her mouth when it comes to money. Those are the right questions, because when it comes to a monopolist that is important for the Netherlands, we must pay particular attention to this. The draft law states that in the case of a cross-share, at least 75% of the shares of the network operator, and thus 75% of the control, remain directly or indirectly with the State. Therefore, if a German network operator cooperates with a Dutch network operator and we exchange shares, it is not possible for the German network operator to sell those shares. I can't. If they are going to sell those shares, then the cooperation in question will lapse and those shares will simply return to the Netherlands. The network operator is in his own hands. That means that no control is leaking away, and never a majority stake. As for the "leakage" of money: TenneT also has a German branch. This means that money is now being invested in the joint network, including in Germany. But that's not "leaking out." A cross-participant might even balance that, because TenneT makes money on the German part. This also yields a return for the Dutch State. But then a cross-participant, with perhaps more weighted investments and the raising of investment funds, is not a strange idea at all. I think that is important, but it should never be the case that something is compromised in terms of control or majority shares. There are obviously no concrete plans for this at the moment, but this is about making something possible that ultimately integrates more and more Europeans. That's a good thing in itself. The investments in the German part of TenneT not only provide a return on the Netherlands, but also give the Netherlands an advantage in the kilowatt hour price, because we are more connected to where the energy is at that time the cheapest. So that really benefits us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u48	I can follow the issue of control in itself, but I have big questions about the financial risks. Especially if you participate from a smaller Netherlands in grid operators that are much larger in volume in larger neighbouring countries, you become co-responsible for risks. It can indeed generate money, but in many cases it can also cost a lot more money. I do not quite see why we need to take this step now, precisely because, as the Minister pointed out, there are already other forms, such as joint ventures, in which this mutual financial interest can be regulated, without extending to a large degree of participation, with all the risks involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u49	In my opinion, Mr Van der Lee is now criticizing the present situation and he poses a concern, but he is opposed to its solution. There is now a German participation of TenneT. An important part of TenneT's network is located in Germany. It already is. So there's money in there. There's a Dutch participation. It already is. It is possible to cross-participate, so to accept mutual responsibility for these holdings. This could also be seen as a spread of risks and, on the contrary, as an active participation of a network in another country and in your network, where there is a need for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u50	I understand that very well, but my concern is that the Netherlands is always at the forefront of this kind of market operation. So we are going to do something, while in neighbouring countries it simply remains in public hands. What do you see? Then we are going to participate in even more networks outside the Netherlands instead of the other way around. Given the extensive transition that we are facing and the huge amount of capital we need for this in the Netherlands, I think that there is a fairly high risk of this, of which I do not see the advantage at the moment, also because I have not seen or heard any signal that foreign managers would want those shares in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u51	My proposal and the proposal in the law is not to enter into unilateral participation in foreign networks. These are cross-participants. So it makes it possible for a trade to take place. I am not saying explicitly here that I think that any net in the Netherlands should expand abroad. I'm not saying that shouldn't happen, but it's not for this. Some of it's already happened. I'm not gonna rule on that. What we are talking about here is cross participation. That's really different. I would like to have another debate on the desirability of this. I remember having such a debate in the Chamber on the NS, but that is another matter. You can debate that very well, but this debate is a little less suitable for that. I have answered and taken several of Mrs Dik-Faber's questions, but not yet. I have promised, for example, that I will look into the phase-out of gas-fired boilers. She asks how we do that with gas burners and atmosphere heaters. I would also like to take the candlesticks with me. Let me take this. We also have the wood sting. I'm not much of a fan of that personally. That's another wallet, unfortunately, not mine. We'll just take that phase-out with us, but it really has to land in those heat plans eventually. That's where it's really gonna go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u52	Woodstick and candles... let's not make a joke of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u53	Well, it's not bad, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u54	No, but a joke... Good. I just see people around me who install a gas fireplace, because they find such a wood stove very environmentally polluting. They say: let's do a gas fireplace, with Groningen gas; at least that's good for the environment. I also see people who still buy a gas appliance at the kitchen farm, because that looks so nicely robust and that cooks so easily. Now that we have the debate on how to get rid of the gas boilers, I think we should look at that too. That was my point. And thank you for the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u55	But so is mine. We have also been asked, I believe by Mrs Beckerman, how we are going to persuade people to start it. This is all very abstract. We are talking about a climate agreement, and most Dutch people are certainly not waiting for it. At least they're not working on it every day. So how do you get the Netherlands with you? I think that in the private home we see a particular task for municipalities. The municipality makes a heat plan. That heat plan is the prospect for the individual resident and for the home owner. That is how he must move in the coming years, with a phasering to be indicated by the municipality. This is important when buying a kitchen, when installing fireplaces, when replacing the central heating boiler, when renovating the house and even when isolating it. The municipality must therefore clarify, street by street or district by neighborhood, what is expected of the individual resident at what time. That is the real message. Because now we can say: think carefully about this or that. But that's not half as powerful as when we do when there's security for the resident. An important part of the governance agreement that we are about to conclude also sees this. In the conversation between the government and the other parties in the climate agreement, we are going to ask the municipalities, and they are going to promise, to clarify what a property owner should do. That's, like, the heating concept for five or ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u56	All this has to be done and a lot of other things have to be done, but why not start helping people who want to go ahead already? You have created the website energybespargendoejenu.nl. For example, there is no "I want to get rid of the gas" option. It is important that a lot of people cannot find their way in such a forest of subsidies, when they may want to. Why not expand that campaign and make sure that you reach a lot more people and that you actually actively help those people on the road? And of course, municipalities have to do the same district for neighborhood and street by street. But now we might slow down frontrunners who want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u57	Yeah, look, in that sense, the website is really meant for a wider audience and not for the frontrunners. By the way, they are often much better informed. It's really about offering people options that can largely earn themselves back, sometimes just not, but almost. So it's really about motivating the large masses of Dutch people, which I myself belong to, to do those things that are really within reach. For the specialists there is less to experience on this website; that is true. I honestly don't think we're gonna reach those forerunners with a government website either. And we would then confront that before the heat plan is there with a lot of uncertainty and perhaps high costs. I would like to call on the large masses of people, including myself and perhaps also Mrs Beckerman, because we are both part of the people's parties, to go along with the municipality's heat plan. That is the changeover, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u58	I hear what you're saying. Maybe I shouldn't have said "headrunners." You're right about that. This website is intended for broad groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u60	I like that very much, but a lot of these broad groups aren't on that website yet. And when they get to that website, they'll see a forest of possibilities and numbers, but what would suit them? Actually, my question is very simple: can we not make that campaign much wider, so broad advertising, as the government did when we started gas? And secondly, if people are on that site, they should also be able to be called back and helped if they don't understand what is the best option for them. So I'm talking about a broader campaign for a broad group of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u61	I find that complicated. I don't know every detail of that campaign. Let me just take it as a study point, because I wouldn't know exactly what the interaction possibilities are right now. Several municipalities are working on this campaign themselves. At my home, for example, there is a letter from the municipality of The Hague which presents me with options. All I have to do is cross them. With the forest of numbers, I thought it wasn't so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u63	The full disclosure was introduced by the Netherlands to the Council of Ministers. It didn't work. Nor has the Commission taken it into account. Neither does Parliament. So there are few of us. At EU level, therefore, it is not in place for the time being, I think. That is a pity, because we have made a commitment to this. All kinds of things have been done to achieve this, but in the end we didn't bring it in. The possibilities of monitoring that grey part are limited. To be honest, it seems very difficult to manage this, only in the world if we are now. There is simply no European covering and connecting system with other European countries. So I'm a little upset about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u64	I have some things to say about the previous point. I do sympathize with the SP as a People's Party. We as CDA are also a broad popular movement. We too want the energy transition to be done in a good way at all the houses behind the front door. Everyone is wondering what this means to him, especially with all the unrest around Groningen. I think a lot of people are willing to actively contribute to this. I hear the Minister is making a commitment to Mrs Beckerman to look into this, but I haven't heard a date yet. Would the Minister like to look at this in six months' time, taking into account the possibilities of municipalities as well? The Minister himself mentioned The Hague. It gives us a little more insight into how that's gonna go down. Otherwise it might stick around a little bit where it shouldn't stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u65	It's a date, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u66	If we are actively talking to each other, for example on the table built environment, and if housing is an extremely important part of that, I think we should take it with us. This means that we have to include this as an important question in the commissioning process, even if the government does not do homework, but I would like to mention it as such and in the commitment of the Empire that we are doing prior to the climate agreement. How are we going to excite people and through what kind of mechanisms? What communication channels, marketing or things from a government or a private organisation are we going to get people to invest in their homes with any enthusiasm? Mrs Mulder is almost monopolised at the point of enthusiasm, so it makes sense that she is now asking me for a date. I think we should just take this explicitly as part of the mission. This means that we should have the broad outlines of this before the summer, with an answer beginning to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u67	At least that's a good start. I imagine we're going to get back to the National Energy Exploratory, because it's touching something wider than just that website. This is also about what you arrange at the back to make it a success and whether there are enough hands to make it a success within that time. In any case, I think it is a better commitment to Mrs Beckerman than it was, and I am satisfied with that as a CDA spokesperson at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u68	I had another question about full disclosure. The Minister indicated that this cabinet had deployed it in Europe, but that it did not succeed. That is disappointing, but at least thanks for the commitment. The Minister also indicated that we can't actually take care of it on our own. My question is why we can do that for green and not grey currents. For green electricity we have arranged it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u69	I believe that we have arranged this at European level. I could raise this issue again because we are talking with neighbouring countries in the framework of the government agreement about a joint move forward. Not only to step up together to drive the European Union to a higher level of ambition, but also to step up together to do things that we can possibly do at the top of Europe's rules and ambitions. This could be part of that. I could take it into that meeting. Then we will cover a number of countries with which we may be able to make a start. I could investigate that, but the efforts and ambitions we had have been stranded on a very great lack of enthusiasm from other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you for the commitment the Minister intends to make. I'm happy about that. At the same time, we can see in our own country that there are grey energy suppliers that are already participating in the system but also very much not yet. So it's just possible. We regulated it for green energy, and that too was an ingrowth model, which ultimately allowed it to be organised on a European scale. Does the Minister not want to get to work in order to settle it in the Netherlands, so that the Netherlands can become a frontrunner in Europe and get excited to join?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u71	Do you want me to study on that? It will then become very national and therefore incomplete. But let me first make an estimate of what we are achieving there and perhaps compare it with what the consumer expects us to do in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u72	I heard the minister say we need to get people along. He talked about a website, a campaign and enthusiasm for making their home more sustainable. I think people at home are mainly interested in what it's going to cost them in the end. Isn't this a good time for the Minister to tell us what this whole energy transition is going to cost us and how it's going to sink into the household's energy bill? Even if it's just an estimate, I think people really want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u73	On this website are mainly examples where the person who invests in it can get a very high return and earn it back within a few years. There are a number of very sensible and practical ideas which Mr Kops and I can make very useful use of in our own home. I also advise him to look at that site. If he's looking for something with high returns and fast paybacks, he's got to look at that website.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u74	This isn't an answer, is it? In my first term, I talked about the billions that are going to cost this transition. The Minister also acknowledges it in reply to parliamentary questions. The explanatory memorandum states that the investment costs for infrastructure alone could amount to 71 billion. Is that right? Is that right? How much are the citizens going to pay? Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u75	I took up this subject for twenty minutes during the budget debate and the only comment from the PVV was that the story was too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u76	Then I give the opportunity to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u77	If you look back at the debate, you will see all the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u78	We are talking about the FAT Act, which is being dealt with here. It's gonna cost billions. I'm just asking a very simple question: how much is it going to cost? How much are people gonna pay? Surely you cannot define a policy in this way, such as: it is not yet known how the costs are going to fall? Isn't that what the citizens are trying to do? What kind of bullshit is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u79	With this law, we don't make a big investment, or we don't get ourselves into something that costs money. Above all, we ensure that the energy transition is made possible by offering flexibility to, among other things, market players, many of whom are also in Mr Kops' party's favour. So he can't argue with that. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked if there are any experiments with hydrogen. That is not yet known to me, but it could certainly be, and it is being made possible. Mrs Beckerman asks where the delta plan is. I warmly recommend the first chapter of the delta plan: that is the coalition agreement. The second chapter of the delta plan is the outcome of the climate agreement. I hope we'll all be part of that. Mrs Beckerman asked... well, she didn't really ask, but she said: isn't it time for those democratic energy companies rather than for market forces? I think that would create a false contradiction. Clearly there is room for the so-called democratic energy companies, and they are also there in which parties themselves decide how to do so. A market-oriented liberal like me can't argue with that at all. I'd even be excited to be a part of it if I had the chance. There's nothing against that. Market forces don't stand in the way of that. I have not yet answered some of Mr Wassenberg's questions. Mr Wassenberg asked if the letters to the companies were public. Well, they're gonna be on the street in two hundredfold. I have no objection to sending one to the Chamber, but I think Mr Wassenberg already has a number of copies. Oh, I can tell from his non-verbal communication that he doesn't have it. I'll make sure there's another letter with it, because then the Chamber will have it. Mr Wassenberg also asked whether this package would be sufficient to make all the houses gas-free. No, not exactly. This is really about new homes. There is a whole new phase coming, which is far more radical, in which we need to get existing homes off the gas. 97% of the existing homes are on gas. Very explicitly, there will be another great exercise. We'll start with that as soon as the heat plans arrive. Mr Wassenberg said that costs should never be an obstacle and that the fixing of gas networks is, by definition, pointless. Well, I wouldn't exactly say that. I think Mr Wassenberg can easily agree with me that an acute gas leak should be closed. All kinds of other upgrades to sing it out in the short term are also useful. It may even be that the gas network plays a crucial role in the future's energy supply. Mr Wassenberg also supported Mr Jetten's questions. No, this is about how the transition is most efficient. That can be by joining the gas grid for another five years and then joining a municipal plan and a heat grid to avoid being in the cold in the meantime. His words seemed great at first, but I found that after that he himself did very sensible nuances. I wonder if we still have a difference of opinion, because we both think that eventually there should be a transition in the built environment and that gas in its classic form will no longer play a role in the long term. Mr Jetten asked about the organization of the market in heat. I suggest we deal with those questions in the Heat Act. Then I can go into it with more thoroughness. I embrace his area-oriented approach and 75% or 85% of his socialisation. I've been handling the car charging infrastructure. Mr Kops has asked with great interest for progress on the climate agreement. He knows we're gonna make the bet somewhere in February. The Empire's commitment is that it must be cost-effective and accessible to citizens and businesses. The bet comes in February and then we start with that. I have to say that I agree with Mr Knops on the following, although I do think it should come from both sides. Mr Knops occasionally opposes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u81	Am I saying it wrong all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u82	You said "Knops."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u83	That's what I said. Mr Kops is right, however, that there is no point in mentioning facts that are not correct in this debate. I think the facts as they lie there are sufficient to act. He may not think so, but we do agree that there is no point in mentioning facts that are not facts. The fact that child labour is being used at windmills might seem to me close to such a fact. I myself was rather uncomfortable when yesterday in the Youth Journal CO2 was placed as a toxic gas. That won't be necessary. I like it, but I ask Mr Kops to strive for the use of the facts as they lie with all the nuance around them. That means I'm gonna leave all the other points for what they are, but I'm gonna correct him at one point before people think something terrible is happening. No, I have not said and will not say that the economic growth of the next 30 years will be spent on the transition. Absolutely not. No. What I said was that economic growth at the time I talked about it, in 2017, is self-financing the climate transition. So that's a little extra economy that's gonna come along over the next few years. It's still a lot of money. I'm not saying it's cheap. Here and there you hear estimates from 1% to 3% of gross domestic product. I think that is a lot of money, but the economic growth of the next 30 years is a number that is many times higher. It scares me. I'm rejecting it. I'm not embracing it. I hope this has reassured Mr Kops in this area. I'll come back to his estimate of 20 to 71 later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u84	I'll come back to the heat grids. I understand that the Minister refers to the Heat Act which we are hopefully discussing within a few weeks, but I have deliberately raised the issue today, because the law we are discussing today says: 'Infrastructure activities closely related to other forms of energy, such as the construction and management of heat networks, are permitted'. I think it applies not only to me, but also to a few other groups, that it is important for us to prepare for the Heat Act and what we may want to table there in order to clarify what is meant by that 'allowed'. Is that the primary task of those system operators to build and manage those heat grids or is it a mix of system operators and market players that can take that role? Perhaps the Minister would like to clarify that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u85	That seems to me to be something for the second term. Then Mr Van der Lee with the 7 billion. What does this bill contribute to this? This bill makes it possible to make an assessment. As a result, you are not forced to invest in the network until the ultimate, while in the eyes of society there may be a limited improvement in security of supply. It is precisely this balance that is important, in all areas but also in this area. I do not quite understand Mr Van der Lee's next question: can closed systems be involved in charges? We are talking here about passing on costs. Everyone, of course, bears their own costs and not the cost of another network. Closed systems pay for themselves and not for what they don't use. I feel that I am answering a question that Mr Van der Lee did not mean to answer. Otherwise, the answer would be a little too simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u86	Well, in part, yes. Closed systems can be assessed completely separately, but they are often companies. And these closed systems also lead to certain forms of emissions. These companies are also being spared in other ways. If you look at the great social task for which we are in the funding, it is the question whether, looking at a good distribution of pleasure and expense, closed systems should not be included in levies in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u87	Are we talking about ETS taxes, energy taxes, storage of renewable energy? It's independent of the question of which net you use and whether you have a closed net or not. I don't feel like we're talking about something that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u88	I think it's okay to come back to that at another time. That gives me a chance to ask another question. I do not know whether the Minister is going into the transition paths and their publication.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u89	Yeah, I was just about to say something about that. I consider myself the owner of a letter to 200 companies. I'll send it to you. But I don't own this. The government has participated in a social movement, but this is not from the government or from me. That means I don't feel free to release that at this stage. In the end, the climate agreement will get a result. Everyone knows that this outcome is public and can be tested by parliament. The commitment in advance, but also the results afterwards, is simply assessed by this Parliament, but that is not the case with this intermediate product. I just don't feel free to make something that's not mine public. If parties choose to do so, I have no objection to it either, but I am not going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u90	One final comment, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u91	I've already gotten those pieces from parties, but I'm asking because it's official reconnaissance. We in the Chamber often have the problem that we are not allowed to talk about if they are not given to us explicitly, but if I may interpret these words in such a way that I can just speak about it now because I have received the documents from other parties involved, that is also good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u92	I didn't declare them secret. It's just not my place to distribute them. The parties may have been very vulnerable in this regard. Then it's not for me to decide. It is also an intermediate product with all kinds of free thought formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'd like to know how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u94	Well, I'm very far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u95	How far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mrs Van Tongeren asks how to proceed with the gas crane in other areas. She knows that I will have to consider the level of extraction in the near future, both within this cabinet period and in the longer term. That's all in the first quarter. This dossier is certainly not insignificant, but I am going to respond to it in that context. Then I'll take it all with me at once. We're not gonna do that in between. Mrs Van Tongeren asks why the safety aspect has been deleted. This has not been deleted, but is covered by the concept of quality. I do not think there is any objection to making that more explicit, but it is not missing. It's included in the quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u97	I'd like to know how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u98	I'm with Mrs. Van Tongeren. Then I have a few more questions from Mr Moorlag. I believe that most of Mrs Mulder's questions have been answered. I do my best, but the more interruptions, the longer it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u99	Yeah, I noticed that, too. Mrs. Van Tongeren, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u100	I thought the gas ceiling was actually covered by this law. Perhaps I am mistaken, but at least I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u101	The gas ceiling under this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u102	How many... I'd be happy to do it at another time, because the chairman wants to go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u103	Yeah, shall we? Let me cut to the chase. In any case, I cannot give you an answer to any guarantees for anyone and anywhere about gas. The mining decisions and the scenarios are coming up. I'm working on it feverishly. There aren't many other files I'm getting into. But this is really coming. I don't underestimate it. Mr Moorlag asks if I can give annual access to exemptions for experiments. I think that's a good idea. I am hesitant about a commitment on the capital of pension funds. That's not up to me. I think we should see the energy transition as a possible bundling of projects that all have a beneficial return because you invest in the future rather than in the past. So I can imagine all kinds of investments in them, but I'm not going to prescribe them and I'm not going to philosophize about them. We just talked about the dimensioning question. I think Mrs Mulder has on the retina that a letter on EBN is coming. She asks what the role of this could be. It can certainly have a role in the energy transition, but how and what exactly comes to her. I believe that I made that commitment during the budgetary procedure. Let's see. Mr Bishop asked a question about the group ban. Sorry, I'm not ready. I have not been able to find an answer to that. He will have to pay for this in the second term or in a further letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u104	Brief question, Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u105	I had asked a question about power failures, grid operators and transparency. Maybe the Minister can still answer it. Otherwise, I shall now table my amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u106	That sounds very threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u107	Those power cuts are about a report. I've been inquiring about that. There's no record of a major power failure that wasn't reported. This is the standing practice. I don't know if we should enforce it by law. In the event of major power outages, this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u108	I have an addition to what Mr Mulder said. It is true that this type of evaluation is always carried out in principle, as the Minister says. Only, they are not always publicly shared, whereas for a lot of parties affected by such a power outage it is relevant to see what has happened and whether enough is being done to prevent it in the future. So I think it's specifically about sharing those reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u109	I haven't thought about public access. That's another point. I think her question was whether it would be useful to always conduct an investigation and make a report on it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u110	And to do so by law. But I think this is a very good addition. If the Minister would agree to do so or if he could come back to it soon, I can do just that. Then there is only the issue of transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u111	I do not now have a ruling on the issue of transparency. I would really say: I do not think we are solving a problem with this. We are then making the law longer and increasing the number of obligations. I would not choose to solve a problem that does not exist. Of course, there is no objection in principle, but these investigations are taking place and exist. You can only ask questions about transparency, but that answer will come. I personally do not see the need to regulate this through amendment because it is already happening. Mrs Mulder had another question. There were two questions that I didn't answer in my notes. So Mrs Mulder needs to help me with what was the second question she had not yet received an answer to. But Mrs. Mulder is busy with something else. Maybe that's how it's gonna work. Mrs Yeşilgöz asks how I am in contact with local companies in the context of the energy transition. I hope to join this climate operation as much as possible. I see great opportunities for SMEs, for example. The installation industry alone can accommodate a huge boom in assignments, you would expect. The Secretary of State for EZK is in contact with these kinds of industries to see whether education and labour market opportunities are compatible and how we can ensure that this is started. It is its intention to look first in the direction of Groningen. How is the guarantee arranged in case the market fails to perform tasks? In the end, that's just an assessment. I can't lay down a lot of rules about that. At some point, we need to determine whether something is necessary and whether the market is leaving it. It's complicated. I'll see if I can fill that out in the second term, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u112	I understand it's very complicated. Like most of my colleagues here, I have had a lot of visitors from various parties who say: let us now play a role in the energy transition. On the one hand, it is said that market players do not jump in quickly enough, so let the network companies do so. But the market players say, yes, we're on top of it. I don't think we should judge that. That doesn't say anywhere either, but I wonder what the starting point is where you can determine: holes do fall here, so it makes sense for the network company to jump in. This is my last sentence on it, Mr. Chairman. I understand you can't write this out completely right now, but I was surprised that there were so many different images. That's why I'm just looking for who's gonna hit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u113	Shall I come back to that in the second term? Then I've had some time to think about it. It's true: what do we call "something that the market doesn't have"? When are we gonna put that label on it? And who does that? I am through with that, with the exception of the one question from Mrs Mulder that I missed for a moment. I'm still looking for that second question and then I'll get back to it, if it's okay, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u114	One question has not been answered. The minister was talking about facts. We have to come up with facts here in the debate. He wanted to correct me on one point, in terms of costs. Okay, but that means he agrees with all the other points I mentioned. Other MPs got a little emotional about it. It almost made them cry. Does the minister believe in climate refugees? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u115	I've missed that. Who cried?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u116	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u117	Almost. Okay. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u118	I didn't do research on climate refugees, but I don't need that kind of excavation either. The facts that lie there are sufficient for me to support this transition and fight for it. I do not need to comment on climate refugees. That's not my wallet, and I didn't investigate it either. Mr Kops has a view on this and I have listened to it. He still owes me an answer on the 20 to 71 billion. That was a report from Netbeheer Nederland from 2011. That is a very global estimate of what we should know in order to have a more precise estimate in the years to come. I can't figure out what period this is, who should be paying for this and where this is going. It's just an estimate as there are so many. Most estimates range from 1% to 3% of gross domestic product during the transition period. I am aiming for 1%, and I foresee that there will be new periods with ample availability of good affordable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u119	So the actual costs will be known during the transition, if it's too late? It will cost many billions, much more than expected, and citizens will have to pay for it. Then we come to the conclusion: yes, it is a lot of money, but it is too late. Is that what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u120	First, Mr Kops says that I have no expectation and then that the costs will be higher than expected and that we do not know them yet. I can't answer this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u121	You may explain, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u122	I hear the Minister say that the actual costs will become known during the transition. Surely you can't define a policy now without knowing exactly what it's going to cost? During the transition we find out that it costs a lot more. Citizens can pay for that, but then there is no going back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr. Bishop, had you forgotten a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u124	No, certainly not, but the temptation is awfully great to respond to this, but I'm sure you're not okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u125	No, you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u126	I was afraid of it, Mr. Chairman. I would like to have one more point answered. That shortens my second term. I've mentioned it before. The explanatory notes to the letter of amendment set out principles for the division of roles between network operators and market participants. These are, in themselves, excellent principles. However, my question was: I may have missed the answer to this question: what is the legal status of these principles and how it works in practice when it comes to, for example, the choice between smart meters and cable increase or when it comes to delivering energy saving advice. It has a great practical meaning to clarify this. Can the Minister comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u127	I believe that Mr Bishop's question concerns, for example, the exhaustive list. It has the power of law. You can, and the rest can't, unless we allow it. For that we have the flexible procedure with the AMvB. That's how it is. The list can be extended and the Chamber is always there. But what it says and the rest can't. It is, of course, about the public network companies. I have dealt with the smart meters and I have said that savings advice is basically on the market. However, there are advisory functions in a generic sense. Some of them are allowed in such a network company, but when it comes to saving advice for individuals, market players can give them excellent advice. They can even use the data, because those data are in the possession of private individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u128	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the second term on the part of the Chamber, although Mr Wassenberg has also forgotten a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u129	This could shorten the second term. I asked another question about the energy performance of buildings. Does the Minister or do municipalities have the possibility to impose energy performance requirements on existing housing? If not, isn't this a great opportunity to include it in this law? Does the Minister agree with me that the Environment Act in 2021 might be a little late to settle that? So can it be settled in this law already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u130	This concerns the energy performance of existing homes. That's what I've been asked about. I think it's a question for BZK, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u131	Thank you. I'd like to suspend for two minutes and then we'll start on the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u132	Let's move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union. I see it's still way too cozy in the hallway and I recognize Mrs Van Tongeren's smile. Anyway, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer to all the questions that have been asked. I think today is a good day: a beautiful day for the energy transition in our country, a day when we, with many parties in this Chamber, decide that the gas connection obligation will expire. With that, it is also a beautiful day for this globe, where we only have one of them and which we must take good care of, and a beautiful day for the future of our children. Mr. Chairman. I would like to take a few things back from the debate. First of all, building-related funding. We talked about that. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is also working on this and I am very curious about the letter she will send to the Chamber. He'll be here for the summer. I hope we can make this really fast. There's no discussion about it, and everyone thinks it's very important. It is complex, but I also refer to the motion adopted by Christian Union and GroenLinks, which also states: let us now start the projects quickly to learn from them and to ensure that there can be an acceleration. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to see whether gas burners and gas burners can be phased out in the short term. In any case, this is involved in the process of phase-out of central heating boilers. I think that's good. It's low-hanging fruit. We can move fast on this, so let's do it with each other. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in international research there is evidence that children living near high voltage cables may be at increased risk of leukaemia and therefore use municipalities on the wiring of high voltage cables in built-up areas;]] [[Whereas local authorities are expected to contribute 25% and 20% to the cost of electricity cable wiring for smaller municipalities, up to a maximum of €975,000 per kilometre;]] [[Whereas it is important that in this period of office a start is made on the wiring of existing high-voltage cables in the built environment;]] [[calls on the Government to aim at a real cost-sharing of wiring and to promote procedural arrangements between provinces and municipalities in order to prevent municipalities from abandoning cabling due to an excessive financial threshold,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u134	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that guarantees of origin are mandatory for green electricity only, which makes the origin of grey electricity unclear to consumers;]] [[whereas the Council of European Energy Regulators (CEER) recommends 100% transparency for the electricity market so that there is a level playing field for producers of green and grey electricity and transparency for consumers;]] [[Whereas voluntary certification of grey electricity at CertiQ does not lead to a level playing field and full transparency for consumers;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its active efforts at European level to establish a legal obligation for transparency on the origin of grey electricity through guarantees of origin;]] [[calls on the Government also to make efforts to agree on a legal obligation with European countries which are already well-intentioned and to agree at national level with energy suppliers in order to achieve short-term transparency on the origin of electricity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u136	Thank you. Now we go to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u137	Thank you. I'm just filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that substantial amounts are required for the removal of a gas connection;]] [[Whereas the cost of the energy transition is a collective problem;]] [[considers that households wishing to use gas should be encouraged rather than discouraged;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the removal of the gas connection for households can be made free of charge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u138	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a campaign has been launched through energysavingdoenu.nl to inform people about energy saving;]] [[noting that this campaign does not reach everyone and does not involve tenants;]] [[noting that some people need additional help in making their homes more sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the campaign can be extended and thereby endeavour to inform and actively support all households, including residents of social housing, about the various sustainability options, including the possibilities for completely gas-free living,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u139	I remodeled the operative part a little bit, and now it's not entirely logical anymore, but okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his answers. I am pleased to hear that at least we have a minister who seems to feel the urgency of the energy transition. You will hear that I am still a little cautious in my wording: seems to feel. But in any case, he is well aware that degassing the new building seems to be a whole step, but that it is a small step compared to the next step, namely to degassing the existing construction. The Minister said that steps will also be taken. That's good to hear. We will continue to insist that the right steps are really taken in time. I think it would be wise if we could have a bit of a say on that today. I had therefore tabled two amendments. Since that turned out to be a little unclear, I would like to say a few words about that. One amendment empowers the system operator not to replace gas networks in consultation with the municipality and with a view to safety, or to remove gas networks if there is an alternative or if it can be constructed. The gas leaks the Minister spoke of are of course covered by that safety. This amendment does not, therefore, jeopardise safety in any way. Moreover, it is not a prohibition to restore gas networks, but it gives the system operator more freedom to phase out gas networks. I wanted to make that clear on that point. It is, of course, also in the explanatory statement. The second amendment regulates that gas-free becomes the norm for both new construction and existing construction. The replacement of the gas connection will then no longer have to be justified as a deviation from the gas standard. The new standard is explicitly gas-free. I don't have any further motions, so I can leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u142	Thank you. I shall now turn to Mr Jetten. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u143	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. D66 has no motions, but still a few comments. Let me also begin with the removal of the gas connection obligation. I am pleased to report that the amendment we had already tabled on behalf of the four coalition groups has also been signed by Mrs Van Tongeren, Mrs Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Moorlag and Mr Bishop. This almost completely Chamberwide, namely by D66, VVD, CDA, ChristenUnion, GroenLinks, SP, Party of Labour, Party of Animals and SGP, is chosen to create new construction in this country only without gas connection. With this we take a very important step in the acceleration of the energy transition and also choose a large majority of this Chamber for less Groningen gas in our homes. I hope that other parties, which are not yet covered by that amendment, will be so sensible in the vote next week and will opt for Groningen. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's commitments on a number of issues, including, in fact, the repetition of Minister Ollongren's commitment to building-related funding. We look forward to the concrete proposals we are getting for the summer. I had another follow-up question about electric cars. I had to look back a moment ago myself if I had asked the Minister the right question. It is true what the Minister says: in principle it is the energy companies and not so much the network operator who are concerned with that balance in the network. But there are also parties who would like to have some kind of mandated responsibility from the energy company. These are small businesses which are between energy companies and car users and who only want to offer the service smart loading to offer the consumer a cheap price for loading the car and to contribute to the prevention of peaks on the network. I do not need an answer to that now in this second term, but I would like the Minister to be able, at a later date, to indicate by letter what possibilities he sees for giving the market a little more room for manoeuvre on this point. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u144	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kops. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. It wasn't a very clear answer, but thank you. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is absolutely no understanding of the overall cost of the energy transition;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Economic Affairs has said that it is not yet known how costs will fall on household energy bills;]] [[Whereas discussions with companies, network operators and environmental movements on the establishment of a new energy and climate agreement are being held behind closed doors;]] [[calls on the Government to stop all expenditure/payments in connection with the energy transition and to ensure that household energy bills fall,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u146	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to conduct talks with third parties (such as companies, grid operators and environmental movements) on the establishment of a new energy and climate agreement in public;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u147	Mr President, I have one minute left, so let me finish. It's a terrible law, of course. I think that the first deadline has shown this to be enough. But to finish in a little funny way, the following. Mr Moorlag interrupted me in the first term. Actually, I kind of had to go on a course in Gronings. He came up with the word "sickness." To continue with that, I also have a Groningen word for this Chamber and that is the word "cheeks." This also applies to many Members of Parliament here. In order to reassure Mr Moorlag: 'watching' is not the Gronings for'shape construction'. No, it means "someone who's talking crap." So "watch" or you can say "quack" as well. That's it, Mr. Chairman. More next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u148	Thank you. To be continued. I now turn to Mr Van der Lee. He speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. I still have a few short points. I welcome the fact that the Minister has emphasised that the cost of doing nothing is much higher than the cost of working on tackling climate change and the energy transition. It is also very good that he clarified once again how he meant the comparison with this year's economic growth. It was discussed during the budget debate and has led to some misinterpretations here and there, so thank you for that. I am not entirely convinced about the secondary activities. We really need a lot of good-looking heads. Those good-looking heads are also with the network operators and the network companies. I wouldn't want to slow them down in their innovative power. I really hope that the Minister will think carefully about the amendment tabled by GroenLinks. I also get an answer from the Minister to the question about steam. I look forward to that. On the cross-participants we differ, I think. I would therefore like to ask the govern ment representative whether he can also send an evaluation to the Chamber within a reasonable period of two or three years on how that has worked out in practice. Finally, on the closed networks. Because we tax a number of things in a certain way, but we also have to invest a lot in our public network, there is a perverse incentive to get rid of the grid and set up a closed system. If this happens too much, the cost of the transition will end up too one-sided again with a limited part of the Netherlands. In that light, I would ask the Minister to take a look at the closed nets. I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that certain municipalities have to pay up to 25% of the wiring costs and this is disproportionately burdensome in their budgets, while the benefits of high voltage lines are for all;]] [[invites the Government to consult with the parties concerned and to examine whether a fairer sharing of costs is possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Lee, Van Tongeren, Beckerman and Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u151	Do you have another question, Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order. I am sorry, in my second term I forgot about the Van Veldhoven amendment to piece No. I would like to ask you to withdraw it because there is a new amendment on the gas connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u153	The Van Veldhoven amendment (Doc. 8) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, on the Groningen gas ceiling. That was one from 2010 to 2020, with Shell and Exxon winning 425 billion cuub. The agreement was that if they won less, they could take it to another period. If that whole system has been abolished, I am incredibly pleased with it, but I would like to know if there has been any financial or other compensation for Shell and Exxon because of this change. Or did they simply accept this calmly and neatly and never come back to having the right to win a certain amount of money? Since I'm still not quite sure about this, I'm filing the next short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Energy Transition Progress Act removes the Groningen ceiling;]] [[points out that the disappearance of the Groningen ceiling must not result in more gas being extracted from the small fields or from concessions from the Groningen field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u155	A second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas energy users benefit from knowing the origin of natural gas and biogas so that they can make an informed choice for their energy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for making the origin of natural gas and biogas more transparent and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Jetten and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Moorlag, on behalf of the PvdA. I take it he's not gonna speak to Gronings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u158	Mr. Chairman. I am deeply impressed by Mr Kops' learning ability when it comes to Gronings. I hope he will also use his learning ability to understand and understand the climate problem. I asked the Minister about investment capacity in the first term. My question is understood to move pension funds to invest in network companies, but that was not so much the point. It was more like the other way around; to remove obstacles. I think it is good that stable institutional investors should also make investment capital available and be given the opportunity to contribute to the energy transition. Then the wiring. A contribution of up to 25% is, in my opinion, a stain on the law. We do not do that in other forms of infrastructure. I do not think that the municipality of Maastricht had to bear 25% of the costs of bringing a motorway underground. A decent integration of infrastructure should, to my taste, simply be socialised and worn by all users. I had asked another question about phasing out coal power stations. Is the Minister prepared to settle that by law? In the second term, I would like to see a response to that. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy system is very dynamic and therefore less predictable where to invest in network capacity;]] [[Whereas unnecessary investments and investments of minor marginal value should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Minister to engage with network operators in order to promote that they only engage in network congestion if there is a need and usefulness, the possibilities for more efficient network management are exhausted and the best available techniques are used,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u159	The FAT Act is a step forward. Unfortunately, it is not a big step, but nevertheless, it is a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u160	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I am pleased that we in the Chamber are taking these steps today, with the amendment to actually get rid of the gas, especially towards our Groningen. I have now tabled an amendment, together with Mr Jetten, on transparency. Perhaps the Minister will be able to respond to the amendment later. Since I had not received an answer to my questions in the first period, I had indicated that I would have tabled an amendment in advance. The other question that remains open is that the letter of amendment contains an exception to the single malfunction reserve in an AMvB. For example, there is a great deal of certainty that transport of electricity is insured, except for certain exemptions. We would like to have access to what exemptions they are. Is the Minister prepared to hang the AMvB? Would the Minister like to send the opinion of the ACM on this matter to the House of Representatives for the purposes of the examination of the AMvB? Those were the points that are still open. For the rest, I think that everyone would like to see this building-related funding started quickly. I await the steps taken by the Minister and the commitments he has made today. Those are the points of the CDA right now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u163	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and the reflections and clarification on certain points. Listening to the debate on this bill, I thought: what is it really special how each of us is in the discussion? In the end, there will be broad support for this bill, but everyone supports it for their own reasons. With some colleagues, a little reddish and left-oriented, I heard the old tones of faith in the feasibility of society, in this case in the feasibility of the climate. I don't believe that much. I would perhaps even like to get the PVV friends to look again at this bill from the geopolitical point of view: what steps can you take in de-islamisation? I should like to go along with their language and to reduce the influence of unstable Middle East regions? For me, sustainability has mainly been the drive. You're running into boundaries. You have responsibility to deal with the creation and then you look for other possibilities. I found it enriching to see in this way how there can be a broad-based proposal from different angles. The appreciation for this is due to the Minister and, of course, to his department. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u164	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister has replied very comprehensively, so I shall, of course, be very brief here. If it is correct, Mr Bosman already has by e-mail the amendment to item No. 7 withdrawn. Of course, this has happened because there is now a broad-based amendment here, as explained by my colleague Mr Jetten, which states how we believe that new construction can be made gas-free. Mr. Chairman. I have another motion, which I would like to read out. It deals with something else, namely the tasks of network companies vis-à-vis the market. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement provides that the supply and operation of cargo equipment remains primarily the responsibility of market participants;]] [[Whereas the loading equipment and loading infrastructure market has now developed into a mature market with competition and sufficient market players;]] [[Whereas the risk profile of the network company should be limited and the focus should be on network management;]] [[Calls on the Government to delete from the Act the authorisation of the network operator to carry out loading equipment as an activity in Energy Act 1.0;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether this activity should still have a place in the AMvB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34627-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u166	I just missed it, Mr President, by saying "fiscus" when reading the motion instead of "focus."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u167	The tax administration, that's about the tax and this ex-secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u168	Yes, we bring in all kinds of things: the de-islamization, the tax...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u169	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I'm looking at the minister. It's up to you. There are many motions and there are also a number of amendments. You want a 20-minute suspension? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u170	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions first, then I will deal with the motions and then with the amendments. I'll start with the remaining questions. I thought I had answered the question, but Mr Van der Lee asked me again, so perhaps I have not done so clearly. Steam is heat. That's an activity of the network company, and that's okay. About the funding in time, municipalities and provinces can make agreements with the network operator, because there is nothing that prevents this. It's an exceptionally good idea. That can be linked to the execution. You can also attach deadlines to it. There is no article of law that stands in the way of that. Mr Van der Lee asked for an evaluation of cross participations after two years. I see no objection to that. I'd like to give you my word on that. That retreating into closed nets would have perverse incentives to get rid of costs, I still don't see, but I'm going to look into that, because I've both seen the two members of GroenLinks nodding in the benches, so I'm going to look for that. On Mrs Van Tongeren's question, I shall return to the motions. Mr Moorlag asks whether we can remove the obstacles to pension funds and financial institutions to invest in the energy transition. I don't know those obstacles. It is also an area which is not mine, so I will pass on this question to the Minister of Finance. I'll ask him if he sees any obstacles at all. Mr Moorlag's assertion, by the way, that there is no local authority's own contribution to other infrastructure must be very incorrect. I have experienced this very extensively in road projects around Amsterdam. There are very extensive negotiations between provinces, municipalities and the Empire about all kinds of infrastructure, really all kinds of forms. There's this little beer, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u172	A brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u173	I'm interested in the measure. Of a 25% contribution to national highways, I have no precedents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u174	No, but there is no demand for a 25% contribution to the networks; a contribution of up to 25% is requested to be paid. For example, municipalities do this with subtunnels, pulling a bow differently so that there is more space, or soundwalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u175	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u176	There are enormous opportunities for consultation and co-financing by the other authorities in the field of state infrastructure. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Moorlag's question as to whether it is still necessary. I think that's a good question. We've had contact by now. Yeah, it's urgent. At present, electricity from the Eemshaven cannot be distributed across the rest of the country and the connection of the electricity grid to that of Germany and Denmark is seriously inadequate. If large-scale wind farms were to be added, they would be on top as far as they were not hydrogen-driven. This is therefore considered urgent. Mr Jetten wanted to be clear about the starting point for the construction and management of heat grids, so that he could think about it: what is the role of the system operator and the market players at the moment? The construction and management of the heat grids are activities permitted to the network operator and expressly not to the system operator. The market can do that, but the network company can. But the trade, production and supply of heat are again not allowed. On the Groningen ceiling, I'll be back on the basis of a motion. Ms Mulder of the CDA asked for access to the AMvB. It wants the AMvB to have a backup procedure in the context of the malfunction reserve. That's what we're going through together, because I'd like to do that. This will then be the most technical pending procedure ever in the history of the Dutch Parliament. Then I'll come to the motions. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 30 I want to deal with in one breath with the motion-Van der Lee c.s. in piece No. 36. This is a real cost-sharing exercise. I heard the room. I would like to leave these motions to the Court's judgement, with the following undertaking. I am prepared, after some deep thought, to reduce the percentages of 25 and 20 if the Chamber would choose to do so. This is explicitly a very far-reaching socialisation and the incentive to think critically about it will be reduced, but if the majority of the House prefers it, I am prepared to reduce the percentages of 25 and 20 to 20 and 15 respectively. That is what adopting this motion would mean to me. With that meaning, I shall put her to the vote, but it is not that I recommend it, because I have not chosen the percentages for nothing. But I would like to hear the Court's opinion on this, and I have also outlined its disadvantages. This therefore applies to the motions on the items Nos. 30 and 36. Then there is the motion by Mr Dik-Faber/Jetten on part No. 31. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 32 is about removing the gas connection free of charge. There's no such thing as free-of-charge. I have promised that I will consider this as an issue and that I would like to deal with it further under the Energy Act 1.0 or to give an opinion on it. I would like to point out my previous reaction. I'll hold it here. I hereby advise against this motion at this time. The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 33 is a real BZK motion. I have promised to take a look at this campaign with my colleague, but this goes on. I would ask Mrs Beckerman to hold the motion. At least I'll give her that consideration, because that's what she's about. Otherwise, the motion will be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u177	I'll think about it. Thank you. I have another question about the percentages. That seemed like a very nice undertaking to the Chamber. I went to see my colleague Dik-Faber. Now you pay either a certain percentage or a maximum per kilometer. She mentioned the example of Veenendaal which shows that even if the percentage goes down, you still pay 5 million. After all, you still pay per kilometer. So how many municipalities is this really gonna help?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u178	Some municipalities are colliding with one maximum and others are colliding with the other maximum. I'm willing to put one down and the other down. That is my promise. That's how I'd interpret the motion. Again, I'll leave that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u179	I really think it is a very nice undertaking, but then municipalities, and especially municipalities where there are major bottlenecks, will continue to run up against that other ceiling. Isn't it possible to do something about that maximum? After all, you really have to deal with the major bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u180	I'm not saying that one thing is more pinched than the other. I'm saying I'm willing to put one down and I don't think that's wise in the other. This is my angle. Mr Kops has told me that he likes clear answers. Here they come. I would advise his motions on the items Nos. 34 and 35. Then the motion to part No. 36.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u181	You've already had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u182	It calls on the government to engage in dialogue with the parties concerned. Yeah, I've already had one of those. I was thinking, what are we talking about? Then there is the Van Tongeren/Van der Lee motion on part No. 37.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mr Kops would like to ask about the previous motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u184	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it happened very quickly. The Minister therefore advises against the motion in part No. 35 in which the government is invited to conduct talks with third parties on the energy and climate agreement in public. Why won't the Minister do that? What's he got to hide?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u185	I have nothing to hide at all, but I don't want to force others to do something out in front of me, when they might want to tell me in those conversations. I think everyone has the right to speak freely, including with me, and that I am not the only owner of a conversation. I'm not going to be dictatorial about that. A conversation comes from both sides, and I'm not going to make a one-sided deal about it. Then the Groningen ceiling. That sounds like something that's relevant to gas extraction right now. No, the Groningen ceiling is a thing of the past. We have long been in a time when the extraction ceiling is much more stringent than the Groningen ceiling. That is therefore a completely pointless article. At present, the Groningen ceiling would amount to an average extraction level of 45 billion cubic metres. That is totally out of the question. It's become a meaningless whole. It is not related to the extraction in other fields, nor has there been any compensation towards the oil companies. Then what do I think of the motion? The motion doesn't contain a call to me. So I'm not giving advice on it either. I have provided a technical explanation, but I am not being called upon to do anything and I am abstaining from an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u186	With this answer, I can hold the motion. Of course it is true what the Minister says, but if I trust it myself, I will withdraw the motion. But for now, I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u187	At the request of Mrs Van Tongeren, I propose her motion (34627, No. 37). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u188	Trust must be earned in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u189	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u190	We're going to the Van Tongeren c.s motion. in piece No. 38. It calls for a study of the possibilities for making the origin of natural gas and biogas more transparent. Technically, this isn't easy, but I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. We're gonna take a look at it. I'm coming to the moorlag c.s. motion. in piece No. 40. It's not that crazy to bring this to the attention of the public again. This should, of course, be the practice. That is precisely why I have no objection to it. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I come to the motion by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius/Bisschop on part No. 41 I have already indicated that this is somewhat behind schedule. The proposers also noted that. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then we come to the amendments. I think it fits in with Mrs Van Tongeren's amendment to item No. 17 to begin. That's about the connection obligation gas. We've been talking about that for a long time. Let me not dwell on that. I would advise against that amendment. The Van der Lee/Van Tongeren amendment to item No. 20 deals with the quality of gas transmission networks. I think I have already mentioned this in my reply, but I have no objection to it. I shall therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is the Van der Lee/Van Tongeren amendment to item No. 21, Previously No. 18, on secondary activities. I think this is far too broad. This includes all kinds of activities, such as electricity storage and data displays. Those are all things the market can really do. I think the wording is too broad. I must advise against this amendment. The Moorlag amendment c.s. in piece No. 24 and the Moorlag amendment to item No. 25 come from another parliamentary age. That is also apparent from the amendments. I strongly advise against both. The Wassenberg amendment to item No. 26 is about the removal of a gas network. It makes it possible for the system operator to decide unilaterally, i.e. without any further agreement from the college of B and W, to lift the gas network, for example. I'm gonna have to advise against that. It does not provide the safety to which consumers are entitled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u191	The explanatory statement states explicitly: "It is reasonable that this should be done in consultation with the municipality."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u192	But things that lie in reason are not in the law. This isn't necessarily going well. I shall now turn to the Wassenberg amendment to item No. 27. We talked about that, too. I must advise against that amendment. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 28 concerns guarantees of origin. I shall come back to Mrs Dik-Faber's motion, but in the form of an amendment I do not recommend this. The Agnes Mulder/Jetten amendment No. 29 is about financial transparency. I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide if she thinks it's necessary. The profit of the past year is that after long discussions, formations and wanderings there is an amendment in part No. 39 is, with a very large number of signatories: Jetten, Yeşilgöz, Mulder, Dik-Faber, Van Tongeren, Beckerman, Moorlag, Wassenberg and Bishop. We do not often have such amendments here. I think this is a parliamentary achievement. I am deeply impressed; I mean that. This is how the Netherlands works. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u193	Have we had it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u194	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u195	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It's Poem Day today. I should have opened with that, but I thought I'd read a poem anyway. A poem I love very much. Would you mind? Very briefly. It's from Judith Herzberg: "My father had been silent by my bed for a long hour. When he put on his hat I said, well, this conversation It's easy to recount. No, he said, no, he didn't. You should try it." I love it and I wanted to share it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u196	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the legislative proposal, the amendments tabled and the motions. For the moment, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
