ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now turn to Mr Alkaya's question on behalf of the SP to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations about the lack of control over the use of algorithms in government. I call Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Our most intimate personal data are the oil of the 21st century. What we share, what we discuss, what we like, what we don't like, what products we buy, what neighborhood we live in, what is the level of education of ourselves and even of our parents; it's all tricks to put us in more and more specific booths and to judge us in that way. This kind of data about us is increasingly collected and analysed using complex computer models, called algorithms. Not only multinationals such as Google and Facebook do that, but nowadays half of the municipalities and 63% of the ministries also do so, according to research carried out by the Central Bureau of Statistics, but unfortunately with inadequate control. Mr. Chairman. It is crucial to stress that our government does not deal with our personal data in the same way as Facebook and Google, because there is no brake on what that kind of company, that kind of tech giants do with our data. They make billions of dollars out of that. Recently, they can even enter our bank accounts to see how much we earn or how high our energy bill is. Mr. Chairman. This kind of tech giants like Facebook and Google are already playing for big brother in the private sphere and earning billions of dollars. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that there will not also be a public big brother created by municipalities and ministries who are going to spy on us in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To begin with, we are not here to spy; others do. From my responsibility on the basis of the portfolio I have, I don't. I don't think that's why I was called to the Chamber. But the point of algorithms, of using certain instructions to let systems determine what we want, is of course of all times. The question is: how do you deal with those instructions, are those instructions transparent and are they verifiable? The coalition agreement is not without reason that we want to strive as much as possible for transparency and the use of open data. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb dat in de acties die ik het afgelopen jaar heb uitgezet een- en andermaal betoogd, ook met overtuiging.]] When you talk about trust in the government, I think it is very important that citizens should be able to trust that the data that the government uses to function is also in good hands at all times, so the data administrations are in good hands. So I do not recognize myself in Mr Alkaya's metaphor. I think it is very important that algorithms are transparent and verifiable. That is precisely the reason why we asked the CBS to conduct this investigation, also in connection with a debate in the Chamber, which Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Jetten asked for at the time, precisely because we attach such importance to it. It is now the case that reports from the CBS are published immediately on the basis of their internal guidelines. We are fast, but not so fast that we can react within a day. It is now in the making and the Chamber will receive it before Christmas. In this, I will discuss the findings of the CBS together with the other departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	Actually, the Secretary of State says: I've taken note of what's here and I'm going to respond to it. At the same time, however, it is a worrying picture that the control of such institutions is poor. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to respond in advance to the news that has come out, namely that 63% of ministries are using this kind of data. In the municipalities that is half. It is not clear what instructions lie behind the way in which this type of data is handled. Mr President, we all know the examples. You bought something on the Internet and then you get a week-long commercial about what you just bought. So it doesn't work well there. When it comes to government, there should be better control. After all, it's not about what you bought anymore, then it's really about "do I get a benefit or not?" These are important issues that this Secretary of State should have an answer to. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with a thorough audit, not only from the government but also from working with open and transparent standards, so that the outside world can also check what the government does with our personal data?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	Again, the phenomenon of algorithms, of artificial intelligence, of open data is a point that the cabinet takes very seriously. That is why it is included in the coalition agreement, and that is exactly what we are working on. The debate in the Chamber called for more flooring. As a result, we not only submitted a research question to the CBS, but also to the Rathenau Institute and the University of Utrecht. Those actions are ongoing. If you ask me to answer the questions, my answer is that I can answer a lot of things very quickly, but that this is very complex matter, which deserves a careful debate and also a careful process. That's exactly why we put this research question down at the CBS. There is now a report with a number of findings from the CBS. By the way, these findings are more nuanced than you present them here. But I'm gonna respond to that for Christmas, so in now and two weeks. That seems to me to be a very orderly deadline for a report which came out on 27 November. Mr. Chairman. We take this extremely seriously. I distance myself from the comparison made with parties who apparently deal with data carelessly. Citizens and businesses in the Netherlands must be able to trust that the data used by the government is used solely for that purpose. That is why we attach great importance to transparency, accountability and verification. The Chamber has repeatedly called for this to be taken into account. That's where she'll find me by her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	It is very good that the Secretary of State pays attention to this and that the Cabinet takes this seriously, but you can deal with it in different ways. If this is the Secretary of State responsible for this complex and new matter, can I ask his opinion on it? I understand that he is still coming up with an extensive letter and that he is still coming up with an analysis of what has now been brought out by the Central Bureau of Statistics. But does he not agree that there should be open and transparent control? So it's not just about public institutions. One of the things that the Central Statistical Office brought out is that it is theoretically possible for the judge to take a test, but citizens no longer know where they stand. If decisions are taken about me, or about any citizen, and I only get to see the result, then it should not be just that I can get my rights through the courts. It must therefore be open and clear to society as a whole how that decision was reached. Surely the Secretary of State can at least say that he agrees with those principles of transparency and openness? That's what's important because we're doing this to the government. Facebook and Google can shield it. But it is important that the public authorities handle it properly and that we work with open and transparent standards. I just want to know from this Secretary of State if he supports this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	I've already signed it twice. I can do that a third time, but I am perfectly clear and transparent about the fact that I think it is very important, and I think it is not only the whole cabinet; that is, after all, in the government agreement that this openness and transparency are guaranteed as much as possible. There are a number of exceptions, as Mr Alkaya knows, but beyond that we must strive for them. That's exactly why we started this investigation. You would have trampled on your own procedures if you asked me for a final conclusion in two minutes, which is in a letter that will reach you very soon. In that letter, I also deal with concrete actions to improve the possible shortcomings. But this is a continuous process. This requires attention from all of us and from all kinds of implementing organisations. I feel responsible for that, but let's do it in the right order. We have an analysis and there will be a cabinet response. We can talk to the Chamber about that. Then you can ask all those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	I've got four seconds?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	Those four seconds go in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	Finally, Mr President. I asked this Secretary of State for a vision and only got it that it's too soon to come up with an analysis. I look forward to the cabinet response, which hopefully contains such a vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you. Then Mr Middendorp on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	The number that 50% of the municipalities also use algorithms is also part of that reaction, I think. There will be a response along the lines such as the Secretary of State who has just explained. I think this also shows that we need to have the debate on this matter very quickly, because we also have the report of the Council of State. My specific question is whether the Secretary of State also addresses what we can do from the Empire towards the municipalities. There is also an administrative problem. We can see that something may or may not be, but how do we deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	Of course. You want the facts first. This research contributes to this, as does a number of other studies. Mr Middendorp knows that this is a complex issue which you can look at from a legal, political and almost philosophical point of view. This also affects fundamental rights. We have discussed this issue once again. So you're gonna start with the facts and then you're gonna see what you can do. I am also already engaged in an inter-administrative consultation with these various government organisations to see how we can take this together, of course, you want to continue this in a common line. But first you need to know what the problem is, where control, transparency or accountability are inadequate and what you can do about it. This can vary from one organisation to another. You'll get the reaction in about ten days or so; I'm getting more and more specific! This has to do with the fact that, although I am responsible for this issue, it affects several departments. We're just tuning in with the departments. That is precisely why I do not put a vision here in two minutes. It must be based on something. I want to do that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	Okay, you said that. Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	I would like to add my voice to Mr Alkaya, because he says: make these algorithms controllable. We debated this as a Chamber six months ago, before the summer. Then the cabinet said: yes, we are really coming up with a very clear letter in which we address all the dilemmas outlined by the Secretary of State and also by Mr Alkaya and others. I get that you're saying, I'm not gonna lay down a vision here in two minutes. I'm also okay with that letter coming in ten days. But are we going to answer that question as to whether all the algorithms the government uses can simply be controllable and open? Because that is the question that really deserves an answer. The Secretary of State knows that, too. This has been going on longer than the CBS's report now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	Sure. It's definitely playing longer. I understand very well the desire to shoot into execution mode immediately when such a report comes and say how we are going to do it, but I think we should deal with this carefully. The point made by Mr Verhoeven about controllability could also be put away in a sentence. You'll get that letter in 10 days. I hope that a debate will be requested immediately and that we can debate the substance of this matter. A lot of fog is being created and said: is there a vision or no vision? That's right in the letter. Then we can talk about that. This also includes concrete actions and proposals from the cabinet side. Then Mr Verhoeven can simply respond to that and you have plenty of time to discuss it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	We'll wait and see. Thank you.
