ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of Bill 34929, Amendment of the Health Insurance Act to leave unchanged the mandatory own risk for health insurance up to 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u2	For the Government's response, the Minister for Medical Care and Sport has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. The cabinet attaches great importance to affordable care for everyone. Good health is very important for people and for our society. In the Netherlands, everyone has the right to good care and support. We all contribute to this through taxes, premiums and own payments. As a result, care and support in the Netherlands are largely based on solidarity from people who use little care with people who receive a lot of care. It shall take account of capacity. Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today strengthens solidarity in our healthcare system. This bill will freeze its own risk at €385 in the years 2019, 2020 and 2021. As a result, the own risk in 2021 is €60 lower than would have been the case without this bill. Without that freezing it would be €445 and now it is €385. To make it even more complicated: if we had not reached broad agreement and if we had not taken measures in the field of medicines, it would have been €445 460. The current bill now sets the freezing rate at €385. For those who fulfil their own risk, including many chronically ill, this bill is beneficial. These are more than 6 million people, 47% of those insured. Then there is the funding, which you have all talked about this afternoon. The freezing of own risk is financed by increasing the nominal premium by €34 in 2021. So we all pay a little extra to freeze our own risk. To disassemble this €34: €29 of which is the reduction in the average own risk and €5 is the increase in the health care allowance, because it also has to be paid. Mr. Chairman. With this bill, low-income people who also have care costs also benefit from this measure. You can see all this again in a state on page 2 of the explanatory statement. I mention that explanatory statement because Mr Flierman asked whether the title of the bill was well chosen. This is only about freezing one's own risk, but it does not mean that the nominal premium should be raised; it might have been better to add it. It's a bit of a faint answer to say that you get a long title then, but one of course belongs to the other. Mr. Chairman. With this bill, healthy people contribute a little extra to the sick people in a way that is affordable for everyone. So this is a very solidarityary measure. Mr. Chairman. I don't want to make it any more complicated than it already is. I will pass by the various speakers on the questions they have put to me. Sometimes there'll be a double in that, but then I'll limit myself. The first speaker this afternoon was Mr Van Kesteren of the PVV. He spoke of abolishing one's own risk and asked whether the Minister agreed that the risk should be reduced or eliminated. No, I don't share that view. The elimination of own risk would cost an amount in order size of 4,5 billion in 2021. That's a lot of money. We can't spend that on other things. We can't organize jobs for that. I'm hearing something about another subject, but I'm just going to keep talking, Mr. Chairman. Of course you can say that you do not have to abolish it, but can also reduce it. All this has implications for employment. A few years ago, the SP passed on its healthcare package, in which the elimination of its own risk was one of the measures. The impact on employment was 45,000 full-time jobs. If you judge it as a solitary measure, it may not be 45 000 when it comes to eliminating its own risk, but it will be many thousands of jobs. I don't have a more concrete answer. Does the Minister share the view that the own risk should be reduced or eliminated? No, I don't share that opinion. Then the point of the care-avoidance thing. Does the Minister share the view of the PVV that the braking effect should lie with the general practitioner rather than with the citizen and that the quality of care will improve and that it will not increase costs? No, I don't share that opinion either. I think that the braking effect lies at best with citizens and general practitioners, but at least it is also with the citizen as the contributor. By taking advantage of one's own risk, I think that there is awareness, remains or arises among the citizens to see if that care is also necessary. That's all about the way to the general practitioner, but that also applies to the moment you come back from the general practitioner and have a recipe in your hand and thinks: well, maybe it's not necessary to cash that prescription at the pharmacy. I speak here entirely from my own experience. In the Bruins family we have a stick in the closet with all non-consumed recipes, if I may put it that way. Now I don't want to consider myself the size of things. I also think that if care is necessary, we want to avoid care, but then it is about necessary care. I'll come up with that later. Another question was: when are the alarm bells going to ring to the Minister about care avoidance because of its own risk? I repeat that I find it undesirable that people should refrain from necessary care for financial reasons. This is why attention is constantly being paid to this issue. There are many measures to ensure financial access to care; not all by freezing the risk we are discussing this evening. I would like to mention a few financial measures to ensure access to care. Think of the care allowance, think of forms of care that are excluded from the own risk, such as general practitioner care and care for 18-minners, think of municipalities that can help, for example through collections for minimums or through special assistance, think of the possibility of spreading the own risk among insurers, and think of the tax deduction option for specific care costs. These are already existing measures. In addition, this cabinet has taken a number of measures to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs, including the introduction of a subscription rate in the Wmo. Maybe I should also mention the broad debt approach of the cabinet, which can contribute to reducing debt. For people in debt, the risk is greater that they will avoid care for financial reasons. One point that came up well this afternoon is that people should be able to find the support. It is precisely because I attach so much importance to this that I recently commissioned NIVEL to investigate the awareness of measures. This shows that the level of knowledge of insured persons on compensation measures has increased. So far, so good, but the level of knowledge of low-income insured persons or low level of education appears to be vulnerable. I therefore believe that the provision of information on own risk should be improved. This can be done, among other things, with the radio spots that Mrs Nooren mentioned this afternoon, and the information campaign, but of course it goes far beyond that. It's not just a commercial and a website. This autumn, too, we will be back on the markets to talk about our own risk, the cost of health insurance and the possibility of switching insurers. The Ministry has a role in this, I think, but also municipalities, client organisations, health insurance companies and the CAK. At local level, so close to the people, a lot is already happening. In Rotterdam, for example, there is a strong commitment on district teams. In Amsterdam, a pilot is running to investigate whether young people are less likely to stop their ggz treatment if they do not have to pay a risk. These are all local initiatives for which a state contribution is available. I love that kind of initiative. There are too many to mention here. They do fit very well with the idea that the Cabinet has, or that I have, to improve and facilitate the provision of information to groups that are not so easy to access public sector information. Another question from the PVV Group: is necessary or unnecessary care avoided and how can the patient judge that? A patient decides with his health care provider which care is needed. That is a matter of concern. It may happen that after the visit to the general practitioner a disease passes itself or is less bad than thought. A patient may then decide not to take the prescribed care. In that case, I don't think it's about necessary care. Just a few more questions from the PVV Group. Will the cost of avoiding care ultimately not exceed the return of one's own risk? The study of NIVEL, based on objective data, shows that the increase in own risk has not been accompanied by an increase in the number of care avoidrs. With this, it is not my expectation that one's own risk will lead to care avoidance, and certainly not that costs associated with it would be higher than the return of one's own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u4	Was that the research of the NIVEL that was about its own payments? I was wondering if there was any bias in that. Mrs. Prast didn't call it scientific research. I thought that went a little too far, but it was a panel of people who volunteered. The NIVEL itself indicated that it was not a reflection of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u5	I'm talking about the 2015 investigation. That's an objective investigation. In that study I found an interesting point that the own risk increased by a leap in the period 2011-2013, for reasons discussed here this afternoon, but that the percentage of care avoidrs did not increase. Now I have to be careful to draw conclusions from that. But it is not the case that as a result of an increase in one's own risk, for example during that period, the group of care avoidrs has increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u6	I had a little debate with Mr Bruijn on another study that was carried out over the same period. This showed that 10% of people are concerned for financial reasons. This has been discussed with the House of Representatives by one of your predecessors, Mr Van Rijn. So there are several investigations, which point to different directions. The NIVEL study is one of the studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u7	Oh, yeah. There's been a lot of studying on this subject. As far as I am concerned, that all leads to the same conclusion. I think it's not 10% but 3%, and I'm holding on to that. I don't see that rising line either. This is what I'm talking about. You and the SP Group have asked whether it is useful to re-examine it. On the other hand, let us not do new research, but let us think of measures aimed at ensuring that people do not avoid care and that access to care close to people is and remains organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u8	I don't want a new investigation, I want exactly what you want: that it's feasible for people. I don't want some kind of investigation, but I think we can do it with the same means in a smarter way, thereby reducing the risk of unwanted care avoidance. That's what I'm talking about, and I think that's what the Minister wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u9	At least the Minister does not want a new investigation, because I do not want to focus the energy on that. I would like to focus energy on good information, for example on the own risk, the care allowance and the exchange of insurance. I think that these are important themes and I am somewhat in the do-stand, whether or not inspired by the WRR report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u10	My question to the Minister was not so much about looking further at care avoidance but about the effects of care avoidance. I had a brief debate earlier with your partymate, Mr. Bruijn. If you end up avoiding care, there's a consequence. This can have a positive consequence or a negative consequence. And that's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u11	Yes, I do not yet hear a question in my direction, but we agree that care avoidance on financial grounds is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u12	I may now mow the grass at your feet because you are going to answer my questions. So I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u13	That seems very sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u14	I'm not sure, Mr. Chairman, but I'm just gonna keep answering the questions. Mr Van Kesteren of the PVV Group raised the question as to whether freezing one's own risk is not a cigar from his own box, since the premium is going up. Yeah, you can see that as a cigar out of your own box. There aren't many more options. If you freeze your own risk, you put down an account that needs to be cleared somewhere. This therefore leads to an increase in premiums. In the introduction, I have already argued that these additional premium costs are distributed among all contributors, among those who are ill and those who are healthy. As a result, the healthy contributor pays a little for the sick contributor. That is why I dare to defend the claim that this bill is a measure of solidarity. If that's seen as a cigar from your own box, it's okay. We don't have a tree here somewhere that we can get the money off. The cost of care will have to be paid to the left or right. Given the financing system of the Zvw, the nominal premium automatically increases. Again, healthy pays a bit for sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u15	I hear the Minister talking about solidarity from certain groups in society who have to pay for it mainly. Does the Minister and the cabinet also have an eye for the middle group, which is still having more and more trouble making ends meet every month? In my speech, I also argued in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u16	Sure. That is what I said in my introduction. We're all paying a little extra bounty. The people who make up their own risks benefit from this bill. The people with the small scholarship will be compensated by an additional care allowance. So we certainly have an eye for the people with a small scholarship, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u17	I have also made it very clear that this middle group is not eligible for any financial compensation. That group is stuck between a top layer in society that meets the health costs, even goes to Prescan to have scans there, and a bottom layer that is rightly compensated financially. Unfortunately, this group in between is not eligible, nor is it eligible for the measures you mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u18	I have mentioned a whole series of measures in the financial field, including measures taken by municipalities. Let me mention the possibility of distributed payments that are not only there for the people with a small scholarship but also for the middle incomes you are referring to. So there are several possibilities. I do not believe that there are many people who pay their care costs whistling, because we really need to get into society and tell them that, if it isn't serious about the cost of care, it is getting serious. So there's not much to whistle about. Then there is the transparency of hospital fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u19	Mrs. Prast has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u20	It's a question to the interrumpant of just now. I was just thinking. You have a middle income and then you have your own risk of converted per month €32. Of course, someone with a middle income isn't as good as someone with an extremely high income. But does that really get someone with a middle income in trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u21	Mr. Van Kesteren, if you'd like to answer, I'd say take it with you in the second term. Otherwise, we're gonna have a separate discussion. I'm asking the Minister to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u22	Then there is the transparency of hospital fees. It is not a subject that is very much related to the legislative proposal before us, but I would like to answer it. I would indeed like to see hospital tariffs made transparent quickly. There's been a start. You can see in your health insurance provider's "mine" environment the price of the health care you have made. That's a start. It's just a start because it says something about the price but it still says very little about the quality. I'm just trying to figure out how to make price and quality transparent. It is not just about tariffs but also about the quality of care. I have recently discussed this point with the Dutch Healthcare Authority and the NZa will talk to the sector, so with the insurers, to see how this transparency can improve over the next two years. So that theme is alive. It's not finished yet, because I've only just begun. Then there are the alternatives to one's own risk. Asked if I'm looking for alternatives to one's own risk. No, actually, I'm not doing that. I have already mentioned a number of measures to ensure financial access to care, from the care allowance up to and including the spread of insurance's own risk. In addition, there is the docile approach, or at least the attempt to dovetail with people in society about the cost of care. Then I come to the questions raised by the SP Group. Mr Don's basic first question was whether care-avoidance is desirable. I think it is desirable to prevent the use of care that is not necessary. In other words, necessary care must not be prevented. Financially, then, should not be a sta-in-the-way when it comes to necessary care. In addition, I would like to say that the risk in question encourages the insured person to think again about whether it is really necessary to call for care. This may, in some cases, lead to the removal of the question of care. In the cases where care is really necessary, I find care to be undesirable. Then there is the question: why freeze its own risk in order to avoid care, but at all events continue to apply its own risk? For me, that is bound to be the element of public awareness that care costs money. Its own risk finances part of the cost of care and without its own risk the cost of care would increase as people may be less aware of the costs. The removal of one's own risk calls even more for solidarity. I'm very much looking for the balance, whatever that is. It is often a political assessment. So I'm not in favour of eliminating one's own risk. It's incredibly expensive. It costs jobs, I say in the direction of Mr Bruijn. In addition, I think people are less aware or become less aware of the cost of care. Then there is the question of how the Minister involves the effects and consequences of care avoidance in policy weighing. I constantly pay attention to care avoidance and am therefore also open to signals from the field and knowledge from research. Most recently, NIVEL's research into the knowledge of insured persons. This shows that the level of knowledge of insured persons about their own payments and compensation measures has increased. Once again, people with low incomes and low levels of education are left behind, so there is still some work to be done. Then there is the question: is the Minister prepared to examine different dimensions of the effects of care avoidance? No, Mr. Chairman, I don't want to get into that. My route would be to look more closely at how we can strengthen the information for people who need this information. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions raised by the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u23	I do miss the Minister's answer to the question about the double message contained in the bill. We're freezing the level of our own risk. We do so in relation to the costs that become too high for people, so that they may avoid too much care. On the other hand, we have our own risk of stimulating people so that they do not use unnecessary care. Now you say you find this balance difficult. But it's a very double message you're sending. And I don't get it that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u24	Oh, I don't even think the message's double. I think that you and I both believe that maintaining our own risk at the level of those €385 will encourage people to think about the question: when do I put that own risk? I think that leads to a conversation. If you get a slap on the knee at football on Saturday afternoon, I hope your football mates will take you to the doctor's office, because that will not take your own risk. I hope you tell them that if they take you to the hospital, your own risk is already consumed before you catch the doorknob of the hospital. So I think it is very important to maintain that own risk and I do not see a double message in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u25	Then it looks like we're in different worlds. Eventually, you come to a measure that you want to avoid unnecessary care for people. So we freeze that own risk. But we do maintain our own risk. Well, I think there's a bit of tension on that. 'Cause why don't you go down or something more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u26	We do not have to ignore the fact that this €385 was ultimately a political choice. I'm sure that's part of the coalition agreement. It could have been a tenner higher or lower. There are parties here in this Chamber who had other ideas about their own risk in their election programme. In the end, this is a result of negotiations. But it is independent of the attention there is and remains for care-avoidance. I just argued that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u27	Finally, Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u28	My last question. On the one hand, we must be aware of the costs and, on the other hand, the costs should not become too high for certain income groups. Both messages have been incorporated into this bill. It's a pretty coarse way of steering. Are there other instruments conceivable that distinguish between desirable and unwanted care avoidance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u29	I do not think it is so gross, because I think that, in addition to the higher premium, compensation is also provided through the care allowance for the people with the small grant. That's a good bill. I'm glad. I can tell you that proudly here. There are certainly other possibilities in theory, but the government agreement states that we are working with this care system in the Netherlands during this cabinet period. I'd really like to stick to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u30	In conclusion, Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u31	I have to say that political choices are more important than real rational substantive considerations in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u32	Now I hear your voice down a little bit. I stand for patient interest. Many citizens see a accumulation of costs. I believe that, at least through the government agreement and therefore through one of the measures in the government agreement that we are discussing here tonight, we are paying attention to healthcare costs and that it also helps citizens to get, have or keep that awareness. I have told you before, but that €385 is indeed the outcome of a political negotiation. We could even be proud of that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions raised by Mrs Nooren of the PvdA Group. First of all, why does the Minister think that there is now a responsible balance between what the care user pays himself and what is collectively financed? I will give it to Mrs Nooren straight away: it could have been a different balance. It is a summation of what is politically conceivable and feasible. But there are a few elements in it. I think that this balance in the sense of solidarity is a good proposal. In addition, the share of the own payment in the Netherlands is, say, the paracetam rolls that you and I buy from the Albert Heijn in the Netherlands is relatively low. That is low compared to other countries. I think that is also a basis for what you might call a balance. But that's surrounded with some doubt. It is arbitrary in some sense, but I think it is a good balance which the signatories of the coalition agreement can at least get away with. And I hope you do, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u33	As we know, we would have preferred it to be different. I didn't fall over the balance, but about whether it's justified. I have referred to all kinds of research over the last 20 years, which has looked at when one's own risk has the effect of thinking. That's thinking about the question: should I go to follow-up care? That reflection effect is already at €200. That it is a political choice, I also said in my own contribution, but if you want to see it as a brake effect, you do not have to set it at €385. It is about the moment when someone has to think about their spending patterns as to whether they are talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u34	So that's one side. On the other hand, imagine us doing that. We would then have to put a few tens a year per citizen on the premium, which should also be financed from funds that you can also organize additional jobs for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u35	That is true, but there are, of course, all kinds of alternatives to that. Previous research has been carried out among the Dutch population, asking people what they would rather do: pay more taxes or a higher own risk. I think that was in 2012. From that, people would rather pay a little more tax than they had a higher risk of their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u36	When you talk about extra taxes, you actually talk more about income solidarity, while I think that this bill is more in the corner of risk solidarity between sick and healthy. I also think that this focus on income solidarity is important, but then we are more in the chapters of the care allowance or the income-related contribution. Then it's more about those themes. Mr. Chairman. How do you know care will remain affordable if you don't take into account the insured person's income? I have just said that: it is a misunderstanding that I do not take into account the income of the insured person. This bill strengthens risk solidarity. It is therefore not specific to certain income groups. But other measures, such as the Zvw, are concerned precisely with income solidarity. Then there is the question of one's own risk as a gatekeeper. That question was asked by both the PvdA and 50PLUS. Isn't it inconsistent to use its own risk as a kind of gatekeeper while the general practitioner already fulfils that function? The GP is indeed the gatekeeper in our system, especially in the possible use of medical specialist care, so the care that follows after the GP. However, it is also reasonable to ask users of that care to contribute to their reflection on the need for care. I admit that own payments are never fun, but they do contribute to keeping the solidarity system affordable. Mrs Nooren asked: do you have to be happy if some 30% of people do not pick up a medicine prescribed by the doctor, even if that percentage is less than ten years ago? How do you know this isn't about necessary care? I think it is undesirable for people to give up necessary care for financial reasons, but that percentage does not tell me so much, because that can be based on many reasons. Maybe the ailment went away on its own, maybe people didn't have time or people hated the treatment. The trigger at our house is actually a combination of those three. Finally, the insured person has his or her own responsibility for his or her health. I therefore assume that when someone decides to refrain from a prescribed medicine, this concerns mainly non-necessary care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u37	On the last point, I would like an explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u38	Well, the insured person can take his own responsibility for his health.That can of course be very good after a conversation with the doctor.Because in the end it is about your own actions. If you don't follow the message to the doctor's statement to the pharmacy, if you don't pick up the medicine, you'll have a good reason. So maybe that ailment passed itself over. Maybe you didn't have time. Maybe you were against the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u39	Studies show that people with less health care, low-income people and the elderly are abandoning follow-up care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u40	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u41	The Minister assumes that people do not take medicines because they are not necessary care, but I do not think that this has been investigated. If you look at other studies, it appears that the incentive of one's own risk affects the behaviour of people with lower health skills and/or low income.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u42	As far as I am concerned, we are in the chapter that we need to make sure that we reach the people, that we want to keep care affordable for everyone, and that we need to be well informed about issues such as the care allowance and our own risk. Fortunately, we also do a lot about this, not just VWS and the government. The question is whether the Minister is aware of the extent to which care is avoided and the damage it causes. The best number I have is the NIVEL report from 2015. This study shows, among other things, that 3% of people refrain from visiting general practitioners for financial reasons. It also turned out that the relatively substantial increases in own risk in 2012 and 2013 were not accompanied by significant increases in the number of care avoiders. So I am not saying that there is no avoidance of concern, but that it did not increase when we increased our own risk. This also applies to the low-income pension scheme, which is also important for those who have been compensated for one-on-one with a higher care allowance. Then there's the question I don't quite understand. What does the lack of trust in general practitioners mean for the policy pursued by the main agreements? I do not believe that there is a lack of trust in general practitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u43	Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u44	Let me explain. The GP's a gatekeeper. Then you expect the GP to prescribe only necessary care based on protocols and guidelines, so that especially people with lower health skills or older people can rely on them. I think that the insured person does not have to think for himself at that time, because he can rely on the general practitioner. If you then set up a system in which you make the general practitioner and the first line even more important in the main agreements, then you do not put your own risk. At least that's how it's done. You're giving the GP more health work. Then you have to be able to assume that is part of the confidence that this is a necessary concern? In the suggestion that you should think after you have been to the GP, is that the GP does not prescribe any necessary care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u45	I think that the general practitioner often prescribes necessary care, but Mrs Nooren and I have also been visiting a general practitioner who indicated that he is sometimes, say, more of a welfare worker. Some people come to him with questions of care that are not actually medical questions but are more social. Those people do have pain in their belly, but they don't need a pill, they need a good conversation with the city hall debt relief department. I think the GP is very important. I am also very pleased that we were able to reach a broad agreement this summer. If we say that, because of the costs, but not only because of the costs, less care should be provided in hospitals, then it will probably lead to more demands from the general practitioners. The general agreement of the general practitioners therefore also states that additional budget, not just for a few moments, but over a series of years, is made available because we consider this concern to be very important. It's one of the most long-term relationships you have as a citizen with a healthcare professional, your GP. Only 16% of insured persons know that the health care allowance is a contribution to their own risk. What am I gonna do about it? Not so much. NIVEL's research shows that the awareness of the care allowance is very high, above 90%. That's a good thing. The fact that most people do not know that it is also a concession to one's own risk is a pity, but that does not mean that no man is overboard. If more people were aware of this, this could contribute to the social acceptance of one's own risk, perhaps, but people would receive compensation for one's own risk if they received a health care allowance. So they don't have to apply separately. So they don't miss any money either. I do not see any reason for a policy change in this respect. Does the Minister really think that he can use commercials to improve knowledge of his own payments, especially in the case of low-skilled people? I've actually already given the answer to that. I don't think it should just happen with commercials. I also think it should not only be done by the government. In preparing this debate, I looked at an unknown website for me, the Health Insurance Line, where you can find basic questions about care, the healthcare system, the use of care, the not being insured, and care abroad. Not only in written word, you can also chat and call the people who work at the Health Insurance Line. Then the WRR report. How has this bill taken into account the recommendations of the Weten report? The government has taken on board the WRR's recommendations. On 29 June last, the Chamber was informed of the way in which the cabinet is implementing its capacity. The capacity to act is or is included in a number of existing instruments used in the formulation of policies and regulations, but also in implementation tests and regulatory guidance. Since implementation is still in full swing, it has crossed the line of preparation of this bill. That does not, of course, alter the fact that VWS has the capacity to take action in the formulation of policies. For this, I also count on the communication policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u46	Then there's one sentence behind it. He said if you don't do something, you're gonna be okay. The request to the Minister is to think about the implementation of the policy, and that is where my question was also about what you can do to ensure, if people do nothing, that they receive care payments. Why do the city policies run so well? Because the care allowance is mixed with the policy. As a result, people experience fewer thresholds to go to the doctor. That's an effect of the city policy. In it everything is settled with each other. That makes it easier and less easy to get into debt. The Health and Society Council does not say for nothing: transfer part of the healthcare allowance directly to the health insurance provider, so that people do not experience a financial threshold when they are, for example, in a debt situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u47	I told you, I'm not for that. I do note a bit of a crazy analogy with the proposal that we discussed here in February about active donor registration. You cannot leave it at that and say: the legislation is clear, so people know the rules. That is the essence of the WRR report. That is why I put so much emphasis on the communication side. I believe that we should go far in explaining the system of health insurance, own risk and health care allowance. I think this is very important. I'm not sure the city policy is such a success right now. I'll leave that conclusion to you. The advantage is that the cost of care is communicated between municipalities and insured persons. That is a positive point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u48	The WRR report also really says something else, namely that we need to change the defaults: if you do nothing, you're right. So it's more than just communication. That's what my point was most about. The dozy is beautiful, but with the people involved the moment of decision and the moment of information must be close together. So all the commercials we're broadcasting this fall are good for the choice of the healthcare policy, but whether people make the right choice for the necessary care depends on the information they get when they're at the GP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u49	I think it's one thing at a time. It's about the health insurance company's information and the information that many people are getting on the Internet these days. I think that's getting more and more involved. That information comes from different sides. I am trying to argue here that this is practical and that I think that I should not turn away from it from my role, but promote it in an active way. Another question from Mrs Nooren's speech. If after ten years of Health Insurance Act people do not know their own risk, their own contribution and their compensation schemes well, is the system simply too complicated? That the system is complicated, I dare say after 11 months in this job. Nevertheless, I do not share your negative judgment. NIVEL's research shows that the knowledge of insured persons increases and on parts is really good. For example, 83% of insured persons know that the general practitioner does not have his own risk. As many as 91% of insured persons know the health care allowance. Of course, there are also own contributions and compensation schemes that people don't know well, but that can also be because people haven't dealt with them recently. I can talk about that from my own experience. I am not so much aiming for 100% fame, but I still see opportunities to improve knowledge. In my letter of 30 August to your Chamber, I replied to that. Then I come to Mrs Baay-Timmermans' speech of 50PLUS. On the subject of 'the bill is a cigar from its own box', I have already gone into Mr Van Kesteren's speech. The question was also: isn't it inconsistent to use its own risk as a gatekeeper, while the GP already fulfils that function? In reply to Mrs Nooren, I spoke about this. Mrs Baay also asked about the purpose of one's own risk. What then is the other purpose of the own risk after the braking effect? Well, that is the control of collective healthcare expenditure. The braking effect on the one hand and control of collective healthcare expenditure on the other. This will help to secure the support for our solidarity system. Is the Minister aware that it is thought that the visit to the general practitioner is a matter of one's own risk? Yeah, I'm aware of that. The NIVEL study which I sent to your Chamber on 30 August last shows that 83% of insured persons know that the general practitioner is not at risk. Again, I think it is important that more people know that they can go to the general practitioner without any financial consequences. That is why, as I said in my letter, I would like to intensify information. Then I come to the point of transplants and the own risk. I was glad we could use the lunch break for that. Who is going to pay the medical costs, such as your own risk, as a result of organ donation? The insured person who receives an organ transplant pays the own risk for that transplant care. In case of donation by living donors in kidney and liver transplantation, the medical costs of the donor's selection are part of the transplant care and these costs are attributed to the insured person who receives an organ transplant. Therefore, the costs of selecting a donor are not borne by the donor's own risk, but by the recipient of the transplanted organ's own risk. The costs of the necessary follow-up checks of the donor shall be attributed to the donor. In order to promote donation by living donors, these costs of post-checks are excluded from the risk. The costs of follow-up checks of living donors are thus beyond their own risk, both with the donor and with the donor. Then I come to the questions raised by the D66 Group. That was not really very many, but one point we have not yet discussed, namely labour market shortages. What are you going to do about the labour market shortages in healthcare? That was the question. You need to put that question a little wide, don't you? Fortunately, at the moment, there are a lot of people in education in the care sector: over 50,000. Then you think, "That's the right way." But we also know that in the coming years a lot of people will be pouring out of care. We are therefore trying to increase the capacity in healthcare along different lines, if I may put it that way. I would hope that people who work in health care would say to their colleague and to themselves: I am working part-time now, 20 hours, but can that be 24 hours? There are a lot of part-timers in the care. If the parttimers are willing on a large scale and able to work a number of extra hours, that will help enormously. I also see that hospitals in particular have come to the conclusion that they have not trained enough people in recent years, especially nurses. There's a lot of scarcity there. That is also a cause for concern. Not only for us, but also for the people who work there. A specialist who cannot be supported by well-specialized nursing staff can of course also not get away with it. That leads to very silly discussions. But the fact is: too few people have been trained, so more need to be trained. I see hospitals making every effort to recruit and train more people. It's not just about people dropping out of school, it's about side-instromers. That's actually going really well. The bottleneck is often involved in finding sufficient internships, so when looking for sufficiently experienced people who, in addition to their attention to the patient, also pay attention to new, trained colleagues. What we can do is organize a national campaign. We will. We can make money available. We already do. We can work on reducing the administrative burden. That's one of those energy eaters, to put it homely. If we could use less paper, that would greatly help the working pleasure and also the number of hours available for the patient rather than for the paper in the right direction. The reason for this is that it is often rules that come from the profession itself. Not specifically from the nurses, but from the field. Sometimes they're quality standards. Sometimes they are rules of the hospital administration or of the profession. Then it's very difficult for the government to cross that line. But you can be convinced of my active attitude on this point, because I think it should be less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u50	I have a question on the subject of the campaign. When it comes to education and the future, we have a history in which girls are advised to choose exactly. I don't have much on my mind about guys choosing care. My question is: will that be addressed in the campaign?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u51	Oh, yeah. It can't be on your retina, because the campaign hasn't started yet. It's about ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls. It's about everyone. We love people in care very much. That work is not specifically reserved for ladies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u52	Finally, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u53	I actually meant that we've had so many campaigns specifically aimed at girls to choose an education that girls don't choose so often. Actually, I was hoping that there would be a specific race on boys.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u54	We're definitely not gonna do that. The need is too great for that. It's all hands on deck and we're competing with all kinds of other parties in the public field. Police, defence, education: it is full of parties who also need extra people. It's really fitting and measuring and we don't have the luxury that we can now do a campaign for the boys alone. I answered Mrs Prast's other question in reply to questions put by previous speakers. I shall now turn to Mr Flierman's speech. He first asked whether the title was not misleading. I've already gone into that. Then there is the issue of risk solidarity. Mr Flierman asked the question: what is the real background to the measure proposed by this bill: distribution of one's own risk or affordability? This bill means that people who use a lot of care will pay less and people who use little or no care will pay more. It therefore strengthens risk solidarity. That's what this bill is about. The income solidarity, the solidarity of rich with poor, has been designed in the Health Insurance Act mainly through the care allowance and the income-related contribution. That's not what this is about. Mr Flierman also asked for a reflection on the system of surcharges. With this bill, nothing really changes the system of surcharges. At best, you could say it's about the amount. There will be an extra €5... That EUR 34 contribution is made up of 5% health care allowance, but that is not about the system, so it remains unchanged. I do know that a discussion is being held in the House of Representatives, through the Finance Committee, Mr Snel has informed me about the supplement system in general. But that discussion is independent of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u55	It was also very clear to me that this bill has no impact on the surcharge system as such. That is what I said in my speech. But I have tried to challenge the Minister to philosophize a little about how that might develop in the future. I found it interesting that at least the Council of State said: you could also think of more targeted measures to support those who are now struggling with their own risk. Then I think you also come in the atmosphere of the surcharge system. It has not been my intention to tempt you now to come up with a completely different system for the next two or three years. But thinking about alternatives doesn't have to stand still as far as I'm concerned. That's what I cared about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u56	I shall confine myself to nodding in agreement if the thought does not stop, but the time has not yet come to present a mature proposal here, which I can speak to you about. Of course, you think that is a little thin, and I recognize that right away, but I really need a little more experience for that discussion. Mr. Chairman. Then the question as to why the indexation relives after 2021. Does the cabinet think that the right ratio in risk solidarity has been achieved? The government does not want to set its own risk for the years after 2021, because the assessment of the desired risk solidarity ratio is to a large extent a political consideration. I've said that before. A new cabinet can make its own decision on this matter. It is important to underline that after 2021, the own risk lags behind what it would have been without freezing. We're not getting into it anymore. So it's not like we're gonna jump into indexation. I must also say that it costs money. The structural costs will continue, and we are talking about an order of EUR 550 to 560 million. By that time, there will really be a new balance to be struck. Another appeal from Mr Flierman. How would the Minister prefer to see cost control in the long term, even after the current government period? You could talk about that in person for a whole day. I've come to the point I've really thought of: the value of a human life is infinite, especially if you know that person. But the budget for care is not infinite. I'm very excited about that. I remember that was one of the first questions I was asked when I took office on October 26th last year: what is a human life worth to you, Mr Bruins? There was screened with numbers from the Healthcare Institute, which attached a price tag there. I wouldn't dare say it, Mr. Flierman, through the chairman. I wouldn't dare. I believe you're going through rowing and windows when you know there's a drug available to your child. Then you want to join and if not 100% certain that that medicine is effective, you don't care. If nothing else helps, you're gonna row and windshield. That makes it so incredibly difficult in health care. At the same time, the cost of care will increase in the coming years. There will be 16 to 18 billion in this cabinet period. I'm not telling you anything from the Millions Note. Yeah, from last year's. All known figures. In curative care, order of magnitude, comes 11 to 12 billion. Those are incredible amounts. We used tough language. We have made major agreements with the medical-specialist care to curb that growth, so that it would not be ten, but eight. Well, that was a big step! We have agreed on adjustments to the pharmaceutical reimbursement system. We've made package choices. Paracetamol out, other lifestyle interventions back in. All tough language, but the question is whether it's enough. I would very much like to go to a situation that has not yet been achieved, not now, nor at the end of this cabinet period, where the costs of growth keep pace with economic development. That situation has not been achieved. Then it looks like you're putting down costs elsewhere in society, ranging from infrastructure to education and from defense until I don't know what, with care costs. That really requires a long-term debate. In the department of VWS this is also one of the big questions we face. When we discuss the 2019 budget, we know that we are not only talking about the costs of care in 2019. We will have to draw longer lines and provide ingredients for them. That is why we have asked the WRR and also the SER to help us with ideas, with ideas. We could use that, too. I imagine that I will turn to the field parties involved in these four main lines agreements: nurses, hospital specialists, the Patient Federation, but also the physiotherapists, to see how we can curb that cost. Not either, but, uh, I look forward to it. I find that an exciting discussion, but also a fun and exciting discussion. I was pleasantly surprised that when the main lines of agreement were drawn up, also for medical and specialist care, parties came to the table so easily. I've been wondering why parties come to the table, when they know that if they don't read the coalition agreement, they don't have to grow -2. If they do come to the table, they'll get that negative 2 hanged, somehow, to express it plastically. Yet all those parties came! In the field it is seen that we... We will not make the Hague angle, but we will have to see how we can moderate the growth of these costs. There are a lot of answers to that. I hope that the shift from care from hospitals to one and a half lines, a first line or sometimes to a zero line institution might help. Maybe sometimes care of the second but the third line can. The children with cancer can go to a center in Utrecht, the Princess Maxima Centre: quality better, price cheaper. It sounds crazy, but it's true. That's how it's gonna be with the examples. Luckily, there are a lot of them. Now the art is to figure out the good examples, which also cut wood, so that we can make agreements about it for the longer term. That is a very complicated debate. If you open the newspaper and when you talk on work visits, everyone says: yes, it's true, the cost of growth we need to curb, but meanwhile you need to look at this project, Minister; it costs you extra money temporarily, but it is very good for the patient and for the quality of care. Actually, I feel that split every day. This is an answer, but I can give you ten more answers. Finally, I come to the questions raised by the VVD Group. First of all, what is the impact of this bill on structural employment? And in which groups in society does this effect fall? This bill only leads to something of an employment effect for a very small part. This is only the braking effect that no longer occurs. That €5 care supplement that you have to make macro leads to an amount of about €130, which you pay for half out of premium increase and half out of the IAB. Of that last part, that income-dependent contribution of 75 million, you could say that those are the jobs it costs. If you ask the Central Planning Bureau, they say that the impact of this bill on the income-dependent contribution has been estimated at 0.02%. The income-dependent contribution is always rounded to 0.05%. So the impact of this proposal is either very small or not present. Just reminding you: if you did not freeze the whole risk, but abolish it, would you be able to make a different assessment? I believe that the best assessment is either from Mr Bruijn himself or from Mr Don. At least the figure of these 45,000 structural jobs has been mentioned. That was about another plan of the SP, which was much more in it. So it'll be part of those 45,000 jobs. How much I wouldn't dare say. But that they are thousands of jobs, I dare count on that. Mr. Chairman. The increase in own risk between 2011 and 2013 has been accompanied by a reduction in the growth of healthcare costs. Does that imply there hasn't been a care-avoidance? I've dealt with that before. It doesn't imply that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the budgetary impact of the legislative proposal. That is 560 million in structural terms, according to the explanatory memorandum. There is an increase of 0.7 billion in the transfer of the coalition agreement. So that's the difference between 560 million and 700 million. Can the Minister explain that difference, one asked. I'm gonna take a shot. Without policy, without the conclusion of main line agreements and without this bill, the own risk would have increased to €460 in 2021. Freezing at €385 would cost, according to the CPB, that 0.7 billion or that 700 million. We say: we first limit this increase by concluding main line agreements and by taking measures in the field of medicines, which makes it €460.445. And then we freeze at €385. That is cheaper, and that will result in the calculation of the 560 million. So without this bill and without the main line agreements, the CPB reasons from €460 to €385. We have driven from €445 to €385. So that's just a difference. Let's see. I have now taken up the CPB transfer of the abolition of one's own risk. I'm getting to the point of fixing the roof when the sun shines. In other words, we should put public finances in order in times of economic growth. How does the government see this? There is always reason to put public finances in order, when it rains and when the sun shines. This cabinet seeks the balance between reforms to make public finances sustainable and investment in society. For this reason, the main lines of agreement have been reached with many parties this year. That helps to keep the care affordable. In addition, we invest in defence, education, police and also in healthcare. We know that care costs are rising. We'll get more care in the years to come. I know that this applies to 2019, 2020 and 2021. We know that care costs are increasing. We invest in care. How this balance between reforms and investment will take shape in the coming years, you will be at Prinsjesdag next week. Mr President, almost finally. How does the structural impact of this bill on employment relate to the alternatives, such as the elimination of own risk, the reduction, indexing, the increase or the introduction of an alternative own contribution? Structural employment can, according to the CPB's estimates, be influenced by the level of care costs, as they have to be paid half out of the income-dependent contribution. Measures that reduce own payments, such as the elimination of own risk or a reduction thereof, are expected to lead to higher care costs. That's what I've been arguing here for the last hour. Thus, these measures have a negative impact on structural employment. This legislative proposal only provides for a limited increase in healthcare expenditure compared to the baseline path, thus minimising the estimated impact on structural employment. Measures that would go further, such as eliminating their own risk, are likely to have a greater negative impact on structural employment. And, of course, I would say that the effect is also the other way around: measures that increase own payments are expected to reduce healthcare expenditure. These measures will have a positive impact on employment. Finally. Without this bill, the risk would increase, Mr Bruijn argued. This increase is compensated for the low income in the care allowance. The VVD Group therefore asks whether this bill reduces income solidarity. I believe that, because of the compensation through the healthcare allowance, this bill has little effect on income solidarity. Risk solidarity will clearly increase as a result of this legislative proposal, since insured persons who use relatively high care and complete their own risk pay a lower own risk than would be the case without this measure, while insured persons with little or no care costs do not notice that lower own risk is being incurred, but that higher nominal premium. With this bill, this last group of insured persons will pay more on balance. This is also the case in the explanatory memorandum, on page 2. And then the circle is complete again. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u57	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like the Minister to answer a question that he has not answered. This concerns the Dutch Healthcare Authority, which has not been able to make binding agreements with the healthcare sector on the transparency of hospital rates. Those rates are very different. If you consider that many people who are attached to the legal risk have to pay it all for themselves, I would like to ask what the Minister is doing to improve the transparency of hospital tariffs in the short term. Mr. Chairman. A recurring theme in the debate is the affordability of the care system, and less the quality of the system. The Minister talks about affordable care for all, about solidarity for those who make little use of care and about those on low incomes who are compensated. But the Minister has not been able to convince me of the fact that the middle groups in particular are being compensated. I heard that the abolition of the legal own risk costs 4.5 billion and jobs. It's just a matter of making choices. I've talked a lot about the middle groups. The dedain with which these groups are discussed, including by a spokesperson, strengthens me in my opinion that the political leaders are increasingly alienating themselves from these groups in society, which have to bear the costs; even more so, those who have to keep the country financially on their feet. It is the groups that cannot rely on any compensation. These groups are losing significant purchasing power. Science and all sorts of figures say that the loss of purchasing power of important groups in society also costs jobs. Again, it's a matter of making choices. The abolition of the dividend tax, also mentioned here, costs 2 billion a year. I recently heard the Minister say in a TV programme that this cabinet spends more less on care, from 18 billion to 16 billion. We're talking about $2 billion. Yeah, you're gonna think, Mr. Chairman. The energy agreement, the climate agreement, will also cost hundreds of billions in the longer term. Of course, it creates jobs, but in the longer term it is certainly an economic disaster that will cost a lot of jobs for our country. There is no mention of that at all. The burden on an ever smaller group of citizens in our country is completely ignored. To stay in the jargon from the first term of a spokesperson: on that bike, chairman. Finally, I would like to put forward a motion to strengthen my first-term speech and to tempt the Minister to at least make a commitment. Let us hope that the Minister's or the Cabinet's insight to make choices will continue, important choices for the future of our country. On that bike, Mr. Chairman! The President shall: Members Ton van Kesteren, Dercksen, Kok, Van Hattem, Van der Sluijs and Peter van Dijk propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the general practitioner adequately fills in the role of gatekeeper to curb unnecessary hospital visits and/or unbridled drug use;]] [[the high legal risk hampers the general practitioner because there is a tendency for more and more patients to avoid the necessary care prescribed by the general practitioner because of that high legal risk;]] [[Whereas:]] [[prevent patients from avoiding preventive and necessary care due to financial constraints;]] [[avoiding care will lead to significant damage to the patient and ultimately to unnecessarily higher care costs;]] [[the general practitioner as gatekeeper can prevent this undesirable situation, but it is hampered by a high legal risk of the health insurance;]] [[Therefore, it is best to reduce the financial burden that prevents patients from taking preventive and necessary care and ultimately eliminate it;]] [[calls on the Government to consider reducing and ultimately abolishing the legal own risk in the light of the arguments it shares,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34929-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u61	Mr. Chairman. It was a fascinating debate; a small technical bill that makes sure that we talk a bit more about our healthcare system with different ins and outs. Labour market, problems of middle-class income and some other issues have been reviewed, including the CPB, our last year's transfer and the alleged number of jobs that we may lose in eliminating our own risk. However, it is ultimately a technical bill that tries to regulate multiple cases, including preventing unwanted and stimulating desired care avoidance. Again, it remains a somewhat difficult legislative proposal to interpret, because both elements are in it. The question I keep asking is: how can you see what the effects of this care-avoidance are? Because desired or unwanted, ultimately care-avoidance has an effect. I didn't get that question answered properly. I also had a second question: how can you differentiate between desirable and unwanted care avoidance? So the first question is: what is the effect of care avoidance? And the second is: how can you differentiate between desirable and unwanted care avoidance? In the end, this bill aims to do so. I did not get a good answer to that question either. Anyway, I don't think that's possible either, seeing how this bill is formulated and fits into the system. About the last question how can you differentiate between desired and unwanted care avoidance....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The President shall: Mr Don, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Nooren and Mr Wezel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is sending care avoidance via its own risk;]] [[Whereas no distinction can be made between desirable and undesirable care avoidance;]] [[calls on the government to identify the instruments which allow a distinction to be made between desirable and undesirable care avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34929-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u62	This is it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u63	Thank you. I call Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u64	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group thanks the Minister for the answers he has given. The Minister attaches great importance to affordable care for everyone, just like everyone else in this Chamber. The bill strengthens solidarity between people who are ill and those who are healthy. That is good, and my group wholeheartedly supports it. We believe that specific attention is needed for groups whose chances of avoiding necessary care due to financial thresholds are high. My group is pleased that the Minister wants to focus even more on providing good information to the insured and has indicated in the debate that he is also taking other initiatives to ensure that necessary care is not avoided. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that people should be given support in order to make a proper assessment and to get it at the right time. The Minister mentions initiatives. The Labour Party asks the Minister to pay more structured attention to how the system can be simpler for people with reduced capacity. We do not share the Minister's view that we can be satisfied with the system as it currently works. That is why we are tabling a motion. The President shall: Mr Nooren, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Don, Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Fiers proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the health system should be designed in such a way as to ensure access to the necessary care for all insured persons;]] [[whereas almost half of the Dutch do not know about their own risk, their own payments and compensation for high healthcare costs in the Health Insurance Act and up to one third of all insured persons know that the care allowance is also to compensate for the mandatory nominal own risk;]] [[Whereas this increases the likelihood that people avoid necessary care;]] [[Considering that the government wants to address the recommendations of the WRR report "Knowing is not yet doing anything, a realistic perspective for red tape" and that the core of that opinion is that legislation and regulation should be set up so that "if you do nothing, you're in good shape";]] [[calls on the Government to examine the alternatives to its own payments under the Health Insurance Act in such a way as to prevent people from giving up necessary care for financial reasons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34929-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u65	By the way, the PvdA Group is pleased to see that the Minister is really moving forward when it comes to Mr Flierman's question on how the accessibility and manageability of care is possible in the long term. Because that is and will continue to be necessary to keep care affordable for everyone in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u66	Thank you. I call Mrs Baay-Timmerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions, in particular those relating to the own risk and organ donation. I will also pass on the answers to the questioners. I have a small question for the Minister, who told us about his home situation, in which he and his family visited the general practitioner, but did not pick up the prescribed medicines because of lack of time or because the illness would be over. Do I have to say that the Minister also believes that visits to general practitioners are sometimes wrongly made? That also means a huge waste of money, doesn't it? I have already indicated, in the first term, that my group will necessarily support the freezing of its own risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u68	Thank you. Mr Flierman has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was faster than expected. I thank the Minister for his answers. I had already indicated, partly on behalf of the Christian Union, that the CDA Group had a positive opinion on this bill and that was certainly not changed by the debate. I have tried to seduce the Minister into a number of longer-term considerations. After replying to my questions and comments on the surcharges, I had actually rather lost my courage, but I managed to do so. Mrs Nooren said it as well, but I saw passion and fascination with the Minister when he talked about this subject. I agree with him that keeping good, high-quality care affordable and accessible in this country is a very complicated but also extremely fascinating task. We currently have one of the best healthcare systems in the world. The world also comes to see why it's so good with us. I would say that it is a fine task for the Minister and his staff to keep it that way. I think we can also recognize the examples he has mentioned. I also know that there are many areas where the system is being preserved. He sounded a little surprised about that himself, but that does explain why the professionals come to the table when it comes to the chords, because they are, as well as all of us, proud of that system. They want to maintain this, but they also understand that something needs to be done to maintain the balance between affordability and accessibility, while maintaining quality. Mr. Chairman. I wish the Minister and his staff a great deal of strength and success in his explorations in this respect. I hope we can hear from the studies carried out by the ESC and other bodies in this respect. I hope that at another time, when he has even more knowledge of the system, he himself used the words: if he has learned any further he will be able to exchange thoughts with him again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u70	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for the balanced, clear and calm speech and the way in which he gave the answers that were convincing for my group. There was a lot of attention for care-avoidance. There has been a look at ways of mapping care avoidance. Of course, it would be very nice if there were instruments that could do that and that could also differentiate between desirable and unwanted care avoidance. However, since the definition of desired or unwanted care avoidance differs from one disease to another, it is not conceivable that there should be an unambiguous instrument that can investigate this generically. That's why you have to have evidence that care avoidance is happening. If we look at the studies carried out so far by NIVEL, but also at the effects of a significant increase in own risk around the year 2015, there are indications that there is unwanted care avoidance. In fact, care costs did not decrease at all at that time; only the increase was flattened and that was exactly the desired effect. That is very enlightening for my group. My group is also pleased that the Minister does not go along with the call to eliminate his own risk on the left or on the right. We have clearly seen in the answer that this would lead to an exorbitant increase in healthcare costs. This effect would be particularly felt in the middle groups, because they do not benefit from the health care allowance, but they will contribute to the increase in the health insurance premium resulting from that reduction of their own risk or the total abolition of it. That increase would be quite considerable. In particular the middle groups would be disproportionately affected by the elimination of their own risk. So that would not leave an affordable health care or purchasing power or employment for those groups. My group is pleased that the Minister does not intend to do so either. That is why it is also good that the Minister has announced that what happens after 2021 is not already being laid down, so that a cabinet can look again at what is necessary in terms of controlling healthcare costs. My group is somewhat different from the Minister when it comes to the possibility of correcting the reduction that is taking place now or at least the freezing. As in 2015, you could make a jump up again. However, that is up to the leaders, the political groups and the parliament. My group would also like to congratulate the Minister on the conclusion of the main agreements. The Minister pretends that this was all very easy, but my group is convinced that it is a real achievement, in which the Minister has worked with field parties who are also enthusiastic about it. Thank you for answering my question on the impact of this bill on employment. It turns out that there are these effects, but they actually disappear against the rounding differences. That does not make them significant, and that is very reassuring. On that basis, I will certainly advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u72	Thank you. Before inviting the Minister to rejoin us, I have a formal point to make. Mrs Nooren's motion was signed by only four members. This can be repaired if several parties want to offer support. I see that's what happened. The motion is therefore part of the debate. Thank you. Is the Minister able to answer? I understand he needs ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u73	I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Van Kesteren asked whether binding agreements could be made between the NZa and the hospital sector in order to increase transparency in hospital tariffs. I wanted to do this again first. The Dutch Healthcare Authority will talk to the sector in the coming period to better understand the price to its own risk in 2019 and to make it easier to compare. There's a lot of footsticks and clamps in the way hospitals buy. Sometimes this happens in bulk and in more general agreements. This makes it very difficult to price individual treatment. Well, that's not the quality of it. So I am not ready to make binding agreements with the hospital sector. Mr Van Kesteren spoke about the middle groups. We will, of course, discuss this at Prinsjesdag, but you know that the introduction of the subscription rate for the WMO is one of the measures that can actually be beneficial for the middle groups. This also applies to the halving of the capital income addition in the Wlz. So attention to these middle groups is definitely there. Then I come to the motion tabled by Mr Van Kesteren. I would advise against this because the operative part refers to the elimination of the legal risk. That's not the way the cabinet wants to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u75	I would like to ask the Minister why he is not ready for transparency in treatment prices. Can he give the reasons for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u76	I'd like to mention that one again. I believe that it is not only about the price of treatment but also about the quality of treatment. The price only tells me what if I have a good description there and I can also see some of the quality of the treatment. That's one. Two. I've been told that hospitals sometimes buy larger numbers and for the bigger picture. Price agreements are made for larger purchases. So those price agreements between insurer and hospital do not always go according to a price list where the individual treatment or the individual operation is priced. That is why hospitals and health insurance companies find it very difficult to provide this transparency. I would therefore believe that the first step is to start at least with the amount of one's own risk, compulsory and voluntary, €885, so that the consumer can at least see what he has lost for a certain treatment in one hospital compared to that treatment in another hospital. This concerns, for example, planned care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u77	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u78	However, I would urge the Minister to explain what he has just said about these prices to the insured, because they are entitled to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u79	I fully agree with that, Mr President. We are not only having this conversation in this Chamber, but we are also having it with the Consumers' Association, which also insists on making hospital tariffs transparent. And also across the street, in the House of Representatives, this is a lively subject. But I don't see any binding agreements coming up next year. I have already spoken about the motion. Then I come to the motion tabled by Mr Don. It calls on the government to identify the instruments which allow a distinction to be made between desirable and undesirable care avoidance. I reject this motion because I do not see that we can make that distinction in a good way. What is necessary and what is not necessary determine patient and caregiver, that is not a political choice. So I can't agree to an investigation on that. So I wouldn't know how to map that. It's about a confidential relationship between patient and caregiver. That is why I also advise against this motion. Mrs Nooren's motion calls on the government to examine the alternatives to its own payments under the Health Insurance Act in such a way as to prevent people from giving up necessary care for financial reasons. I also advise against that motion. There are already a lot of measures to ensure financial access to care. I refer to the healthcare allowance, the exceptions to the own risk, the multi-cost scheme of municipalities, the collections known to municipalities, the spread of payments and the tax deduction. So I don't want to focus on alternatives right now. What I want to do is expose the healthcare system to people. Where this has not yet been achieved, I shall draw particular attention to it. Hence this view and the dissuade of this motion. Then there's the point Mrs Baay-Timmerman raised. Are family visits also made wrongly? That question was asked in response to the little stick in the Bruins family. Indeed, there are general practitioners who say that a large proportion of the consultations that are done at my office do not have a medical background. That's what doctors say to me. Let us move it to our own situation; I say again that of course that is not allowed at all. I have one of the kids in mind now that you're going to the GP, that you think there's something bad and that it's not that bad. Then you get something from the pharmacy, but it can lead you to think: well, with two days' rest you will also get a long way. And that's the end of it. So are family visits sometimes made wrongly? From the point of view of the general practitioner, perhaps, but such a visit reassures the citizen. And that is why the public's access to the general practitioner is extremely important. That's an important relationship. I would like to thank Mr Flierman for his kind words. I would find it very interesting to discuss the cost of care at another time, but also the quality of care in the long term. We should find a good shape for that, or we'll figure something out. That gives me an opportunity to tell you about the progress of those main lines of agreement, which Mr Bruijn spoke about. 'Cause it's nice that you're making an appointment, but it's actually just beginning. It is about the implementation, in the region, with those field parties, to see on the one hand whether measures are being taken and, on the other hand, whether the proceeds are being made in the financial sense. Mr President, so far. Many thanks for all the kind words and tonight's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-11.u81	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose to vote on Tuesday 25 September on the bill and the three motions for resolutions tabled. I would like to thank the Minister and the Members for their discussions. Get home.
