ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Slootweg, on behalf of the CDA, for his questions to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I welcome, on the increase of users of GHB in the first aid. I call Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The message from the NRC that users of GHB often come to the emergency room has shocked me and my group deeply. The number of people between 20 and 30 who end up in emergency care, as shown in the article, has increased explosively. Doctors say the drug is hard to dose when it's made. It is cheap, it is extremely addictive and also single use can have serious consequences, such as stopping breathing. If I may quote Doctor David Baden of the Diakonessenhuis in Utrecht: "A girl has recently been brought to us. She had gone all out at her birthday party because she had taken too much GHB, but her friends took it lightly." This makes me speechless. This can't be happening. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we need to do more to break this picture? How do we ensure that young people are informed of the dangers of GHB? Is the Secretary of State prepared to campaign for this? What action does the Secretary of State take to prevent that GHB use? I would also like to say a few words about the provision of information to the Chamber. We have recently received the national monitor drug incidents. As regards GHB use, it was stated that there was a slightly decreasing trend. How can I reconcile this with the NRC's investigation which shows that the doctors in the emergency room are in the hair with the number of young people being brought in? I would like to know how we can reconcile these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg is right to draw attention to these alarming reports. I was also shocked when I learned about that yesterday. It is therefore right to ask questions about it. We all know that GHB is a very high-risk drug. It has an extremely addictive effect. Misdosing can lead to very serious consequences. Mr Slootweg himself pointed that out. There is no discussion of the risks posed by GHB. I think we can sum up briefly: GHB is garbage! A number of emergency doctors indicate a large increase in the number of health incidents involving patients due to the use of GHB. That, of course, worries me. Apparently, the use of GHB is becoming more and more normal when going out and users take the risks for granted. What worries me, too, is that there is no or hardly any disease awareness among many users. That is also what Mr Slootweg is referring to. Spokesmen, among others from the OLVG in Amsterdam, also drew attention to this yesterday. People think that a hospitalization happened to me once, but I'm just gonna move on again. Mr. Chairman. I would like to do two things in response to Mr Slootweg's questions. First of all, I want to get a good idea of the scale of the problem. The coverage is obvious. In a number of hospitals there is an increase in emergency services. We have given the right order to see what other hospitals are like. That gives a slightly differentiated picture. There are also hospitals where there is a stabilisation. The fact is that the last annual report of the Trimbos Institute shows a downward trend, as Mr Slootweg also said. That seems obsolete by now. I think that Mr Slootweg will find it logical that I want to know the seam of the stocking and that I want to put it exactly in the picture. Of course, I will inform the Chamber of its outcome. It is not just about these three hospitals, but about the whole picture in the Netherlands, as far as we can get it. After all, there are also people who use at home. It's very complicated and even impossible to picture that. That is the question of identifying the scale of the problem. Then the question is, what are you gonna do about it? We need to focus on prevention. Of course we have preventive policies. I refer to the debate on the VWS budget a few weeks ago. Several spokesmen then called for attention to be paid to drug use. In response, I said the following. We have preemptive policies. That was drawn up by the previous government. Even before the budget debate, I have given the mandate to consider whether the preventive policy we have is still adequate and adequate. I want to have that sorted out with relevant parties, with the people who know a lot about it. I said in the budget debate that I will report to the Chamber on this at the beginning of 2019. I suggest I do that in one set. I will then inform the Chamber about the current figures and I will present any additional actions in the preventive sphere. I promise Mr Slootweg and the whole Chamber that my special attention will be to GHB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u5	I thank the Secretary of State for these commitments. My group is still very concerned about the knowledge about this. Is there any? We know, for example, that there have already been preventive projects in West Brabant. We would like to know what the consequences are. How is this knowledge, which may be concentrated in a number of places in the country, disseminated? We know there's such a project around Heerenveen, but we see that it's moving on to the Randstad now. Secondly, hasn't the focus on party drugs been put too much on ecstasy lately, for example? Shouldn't attention be focused much more on GHB use?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u6	In response to that last question, I would like to say that I do not think Mr Slootweg wants us to give less attention to ecstasy. However, as I have just stated explicitly, GHB will be very strongly involved in the design of the policy that will come into being next year. If additions are needed, GHB will certainly be explicitly involved. Mr Slootweg asks what we do with the knowledge we have and how we spread it. There is a pilot running in the East of the Netherlands for what we call a "closing approach." It puts all the helpers in place and looks at how to organise good care around it, including for people who use GHB at home, for home users, so to speak. With the knowledge that we gain from this, we can take further steps in the Netherlands to address the addiction in a targeted way. After all, you're really talking about addiction. It's about people who use at home and are addicted. I say to Mr Slootweg that this aspect, the roll-out of the knowledge we gain in the pilot, is also included in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mr President. Many of the raw materials used are available from construction markets. I understand that there should not be stickers on every construction market right now, but I would like to know if there can be an signalling function there and knowledge can also be disseminated when someone brings a selection of materials so that the raw materials are considered a little suspicious. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u8	I find this an exciting question, because Mr Slootweg, like myself, will have knowledge that, for example, sewage disposal is part of GHB. It gets complicated when we ask cashiers at the hardware store to look deep into the pupils with the question: what are you going to do with that? This is actually the same as in the nitrous oxide discussion. We have also made agreements with the sector that sells it in case people buy patterns in a more than usual amount and there is a suspicion that they want to do more than spray whipped cream. I imagine something similar is being done in the construction markets. I would also like to include this aspect in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u10	The SGP can also imagine that you are having a fun party without having to use a sink unhinder, but it is becoming more and more normal to use that drug. Does information, explain it again, help enough? Is there no need for an active approach to illegal stuff that we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u11	The tricky thing is that the use of GHB when going out is very difficult to trace. It's a liquid you're carrying. We're not gonna search everyone who goes out on a nightclub. If Mr Van der Staaij is referring to this, it will be very complicated. The ingredients needed to produce GHB can be freely obtained anywhere. This makes the approach even more complicated than the approach of xtc.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u12	For example, if I look at Jellinek's website, I see that GHB is illegal, but that there is no active action against users. Isn't that almost some kind of encouragement: if you use it, can you actually do it with impunity? Shouldn't that get the attention, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think that's a very logical question, but maintaining it is precisely with GHB very complicated because it concerns small bottles of liquid that people carry. I want to take this question seriously and see if we can do something with it and whether maintaining it can be a serious aspect. The fact is that maintaining on having and/or using GHB is much and much more complicated than in the case of all kinds of other drugs. But I have heard the question and I promise to pay serious attention to it. The conclusion could be that it is not or hardly possible to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u14	It's a shame to see some people see GHB as a party drug, like it's some kind of party. The Secretary of State is right to say: it's garbage; it's got sink remover in it. Yet his answer surprises me a little. The Secretary of State says he's going to investigate the extent and see if our prevention policy or the information is working. If you see the increase, would this Secretary of State be able to draw the conclusion that he has to go a few steps faster and make it clear to people that one does not just take some kind of party drug, but that one puts sink remover in his body?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Veldman may be suggesting that perhaps he does not mean that the current information is not explicit enough. That is precisely what I want to focus on: is the current preventive policy sufficient? For example, if we need to communicate more explicitly about the ease with which you can produce it and about the poison you take, I am the last one to walk away from it. Once again, I promised in the budget debate that I would look very closely at this and come back at the beginning of 2019 with additional measures if necessary. That also has to do with depicting the size.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
