ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the amendment of various laws in the field of public health in connection with the merger of the Health Inspectorate and the Youth Inspectorate into the Health and Youth Inspectorate, number 34797. I would like to give the floor to the various speakers in a moment, but not after I have reported that Mrs Westerveld has been delayed. She has been registered as a second speaker, but I would ask you to be somewhat flexible in dealing with this. We'll see if she gets to the meeting in time. Mrs Agema had to apologize for this meeting. Mr Markuszower followed the debate for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp. She speaks on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good and accessible care is what the Netherlands wants. The quality of care we receive in the Netherlands is high. This is also apparent from all kinds of investigations. This quality is not self-evident. We owe it to thousands of professionals who work in healthcare. Because of their knowledge and, above all, because of their dedication, this concern is of high quality. And of course we want to keep it that way. Our future generations must also be able to trust that they will receive good care. An important institute to monitor and promote this is the Health Inspectorate. However, the Youth Care Inspectorate also has the same function when it comes to youth care. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of laws to make the merger between the two inspections legally possible. The Chamber has already been informed of this. It is a little unusual to debate this then. Now I'm looking at the Minister: isn't that a little weird? We are having a debate on something that requires a legal basis, but which has actually already been implemented in an organisational way. But in this case, I do not mind at all, because it also indicates the speed of inspections that want better inspection, an inspection that monitors more efficiently and effectively. Let this merger be an inspiration for the social domain, for example for the project i-Social Domain: how can we do things more convenient with each other? For'systems to people' was the challenge for the previous cabinet and we have the systems, but as I indicated in the budget discussion, the battle for people must now be made. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say something about amending some of the laws. The Minister states that there is no reason to review all laws and regulations relating to state supervision. Could the Minister explain that a little bit more? To questions about the benefits of the merger, the Minister replied that the merger contributes to a clear policy of enforcement and decision-making. This gave me the impression that the inspections work in a different way, that they do not work uniformly and uniformly. Is that right? Is there a kind of growth path to achieve that uniformity with each other? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the monitoring of the youth domain, the following points should be made: Certain tasks in this domain are carried out by parts of the Justice and Security Inspection. Has it been considered to include any part of it in this merger? Take youth rehabilitation and youth protection. That's not a black and white area. There's a gray area there. Yet there is still a third inspection; separate worlds. It seems useful to me that we are also looking at this, because for people the situation is often not black and white. I would also like to hear from the Minister about the monitoring of youth-ggz. D66 was disappointed, and my colleague Rens Raemakers also pointed out in the debate that the very thick package on the evaluation of the Youth Act contains almost nothing about the youth ggz. Hence our concern: what about the monitoring of youth-ggz? Is there a difference in the supervision between the youth ggz and the ggz for adults and, if so, why? Mr. Chairman. Keeping your own direction about your life is a core value that is very important for D66. That's why we think the personal budget is so important. But even within the personal budget, things can go wrong. Can the Minister explain how the new inspection will monitor care provided through a personalised budget? In addition to self-direction, transparency is also important. The publication of inspection reports is very important. As early as 2016, both Chambers adopted the legislative changes regarding an active disclosure of that supervisory information. The wait is now only for the general measure of governance. When does it have to come to the room? We're looking forward to that. It is now said that this is early 2018, but a lot is happening at the beginning of 2018, so I hope that the Minister can be a little more concrete about it. In the social domain, five state inspections are currently working together to supervise. That's a lot. From five we go to four now, but that is still a large number of supervisors, especially if we add all the municipalities, which we can still see as local supervisors. Much has already been written about the cooperation between all these supervisors and the integrated view, as we have seen in the reply in the note, but it is unclear who is doing what. How do people, but also institutions and municipalities know which supervisor to report to? How do we avoid confusion about this? What happens in the case of emergencies falling under multiple supervisors? Think of a calamity on a care farm, which is supervised by the Inspection SZW, the IGJ and also the municipality. The same issue was raised about Safe Home. There was a dispute in one of the municipalities. Parents were dissatisfied and the question was: who oversees now? Is that the city? It then refers to the inspection. These two concrete examples, the example about the care farm and the example about Safe Home, are therefore about the question of who is doing what now. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr President, I will conclude. My group is in favour of this merger. I can hardly imagine that parties are opposed to a better supervisory structure. The merger of these two inspections should therefore lead to a higher level of public confidence in health care and youth care. I also think it is important for them to find out that care is well guarded in the Netherlands and, more importantly, is also promoted. Because only if we make that crucial blow to people will the merger succeed as far as D66 is concerned. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. We got off to such a speedy start that I forgot to welcome the Minister, but that's what I'm doing here. Mrs Westerveld is not here yet, so I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kooiman. It speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that Mrs Bergkamp has already introduced very nicely why we are here today and that it is indeed a merger, a merger of two inspections. But it's a bit of a crazy debate. It's a bit of a mustard-after-dinner discussion, because it's actually organized already and now we're debating it again. Doesn't the Minister think that's crazy? It's not exactly neat, I guess, to treat it that way. It is customary that we talk about something here first and that we do not start anything until afterwards. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. Nevertheless, I must say that I would have liked to have done so in advance, and I think it is a wise decision to at least ensure that supervision in the field is no longer fragmented. Mrs Bergkamp rightly said something about this. The Council of State itself has already discussed it. He says, "Why don't we go wider?" There are, of course, a lot of institutions that also have to do with education, for example. You can also add Social Affairs, the Labour Inspectorate. Why not ensure that not only cooperation is improved, but also that measures are taken to make it more unified? I know that the Minister in his reply says that there is also a Social Domain and Youth Inspection Window. I have to say that neatly, but a point of contact does not necessarily always ensure good cooperation. Can the Minister say a little more about this and also about any plans that might make it possible to anchor this cooperation a little more? Logically, I also have a question about capacity. It's a merger. The main concern of the SP Group was, of course, whether the capacity or whether it remains. In the explanatory memorandum, the Minister states that the merger is intended to improve the content and process of the merger; in the long term this may have a beneficial effect on costs. I always think, "Oh, what's gonna happen?" The Secretary of State in nonverbal that he understands my concerns. Now I understand from the Minister that the same size has been used until 2017 and that there was the same capacity, but is there any idea of this year and the coming years? Is there a cut or not? That is my specific question. Mr. Chairman. The SP often criticises the inspection, not so much the people who do the work, because they do very important and good work. More we would very much like to see them come by more often, that they often come by unexpectedly and that it is not a paper check. Can the Minister indicate whether he intends to ask the inspection to visit more often unexpectedly and that the inspection is not only carrying out a dossier investigation, but is actually accompanying it? I think you'll see most of it. I have noticed that in recent years there has been an increasing shift towards actual walking along and more talking to the people in the workplace. Does the Minister intend to continue this trend? Then the criticism about not being able to visit often. In the basic registration of the inspection, or the IGJ, 4,400 youth care providers are now registered. In 2016, 330 locations were visited. So you can't really talk about systematic visits. Many providers are not covered and are not visited. What does the Minister really think of this? New providers have no obligation to report to the municipality or inspection. You often find that aldermen themselves do not know which providers, both of youth and of the Wmo, work in his or her municipality. Of course there are providers who have a contract with the municipality, but for example the private youth care institutions do not always have that. That's what I'm worried about, and this is what I'm worried about. In 2010 I've been in the Chamber for so long, there was a very big debate about the foreign healthcare providers. The Minister probably recognizes it from his other position: many young people were sent abroad by private healthcare providers. In particular, there were violations around labour. There was also abuse there, you could support it. In the Chamber, there was rightly a great deal of indignation about this. Everyone, from left to right, felt that there should be more supervision. The inspection looked into that, too. I believe that it was in 2003 that the then Youth Services Inspectorate said that it should be monitored more precisely because it did not know where to find them either. The inspection wanted to look at a registration requirement for these private youth care providers. I actually think that makes sense. 'Cause before you tinker with noses or boobs, you gotta have professionals. That's what we think. There is always a duty to monitor this. But if you're crafting with kids, there's actually no supervision. I think that's crazy. Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of abuses. Mrs Bergkamp mentioned a number of them. I mentioned the foreign healthcare providers. Furthermore, for example, Salida Crisiscare and the Stoploverboys NOW foundation, which could just start a shelter. I believe the minister knows that foundation as a former alderman. D66 and the SP have also asked questions about care farm De Hoge Aard. It is only a fraction of what has happened in recent years. Any idiot can create a very beautiful website that says: look, I have a wonderful care offer for young people. But it's not always supervised. Aldermen often don't know that. We've been eight years. My question is why this registration requirement is not yet in place. Isn't that the minimum we could arrange? Mr. Chairman. Now I understood from the explanatory statement that the Minister said that we should deal with this in the new law on healthcare providers, but when I went into that new law on healthcare providers, the Minister said that we should settle this in the new law on youth aid, which we might get after the evaluation. I see the Minister again communicating non-verbally. I am very curious to see what this results in, because if he can say "well, let's just settle it today," then I am very happy with that. Finally, a very small other question about the disclosure of these emergency reports, to which Mrs Bergkamp referred. In 2016, the Law Amendment to the Health Act and the Youth Act on Active Disclosure of Supervisory Information was adopted. A whole mouthful. Indeed, the AMvB would arrange for the calamities reports to be made public. In 2018, that AMvB should be there. That's two years later, but okay, that's gonna have to be arranged. Mrs Bergkamp's question is therefore justified, I think: where is the AMvB? Can we just settle that so that those calamities reports are made public? So much for the contribution of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. The Minister will of course be given the opportunity to translate the non-verbal into words. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Hermans. She speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead, Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When you need care, you should be able to trust that care is good, that the hospital or nursing home where you get care complies with the applicable safety regulations, but also that doctors and nurses who care for you have had the proper training. Unfortunately, we all know stories where operations don't go well, or where someone falling into a nursing home has to wait too long for help. Among other things, for such situations there must be an inspection that monitors, intervenes and intervenes when necessary. One supervisor with overview of the whole care: according to the VVD group, this fits with a healthcare system in which personalised care is the starting point. Care that suits you, and that is tailored to individual needs and needs. But that also requires room for care professionals: space to act and provide care. Of course, there are basic rules about safety, medication and hygiene, but no checklists that take a lot of time and ultimately do not contribute to good care. Because good care is also, or perhaps mainly, quality of life. What that is is different for you and me and for all of us. That won't be caught in a simple ticking list. For that, we really need to leave room for people who work in healthcare. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that the inspection has an important role to play in this? Mr. Chairman. The aim of the merger is to improve the quality of supervision. The explanatory statement describes this in very fine words: it is about substantive synergy, about the integral exercise of supervision, but also about a more efficient and effective organisation, in which the substantive cooperation takes shape. These are fine words on paper, but in the end, of course, it is about what difference the IGJ can make as an inspection in practice, and what it can contribute to it. Can the Minister answer my question as to how we are actually going to see this improvement in the quality of supervision in practice? To gather information, to form a judgment and, if necessary, to intervene: that is, in short, what monitoring entails. For the sake of confidence in our care, it is important that the inspection really intervenes when it is necessary. So not padding and keeping wet, but proper action. We are going to talk about the enforcement tools of the inspection separately, but for now I have one specific question about the Minister's capacity to designate, and how it takes shape. Indeed, in the explanatory memorandum, we read that this power, as it is now contained in the decision of the two separate inspections, is transferred to the implementing act for the IGJ. The note on the report says, in my opinion, that there is going to be a change in this power of designation, which is going to be more closely aligned with the way in which it is now regulated in the National Inspection Instructions. The phrase "closer match" suggests that something may change. For my group, it is important to make this very clear: what exactly does the designation authority for the new inspection, the IGJ, look like? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of transparency, because the disclosure of inspection data is also part of proper supervision in relation to the VVD. For the people who use the care, this is important to make good choices and for healthcare organisations this is an incentive or incentive to do a little better every day. Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Kooiman have already asked questions about the AMvB that we have been waiting for for for some time. So I would like to join with them in asking when exactly we can meet them. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. For some years now, the Health Inspectorate and the Youth Inspectorate have been working together. Following the decentralisation of the Youth Act in 2015 and the introduction of the Long-Term Care Act, this cooperation has only intensified further. In fact, therefore, this legislative proposal lays a legal basis under an existing practice. This is important, because good and effective supervision with a legal basis is very important for our care, for trust in care and for the quality of care. Good supervision is also about good care, and good care of top quality and with attention to what you need is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Peters. Mr Peters speaks on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal we are debating today is, in the end, rather technical in nature, even in such a way that the practice has already overtaken the legislation. That has already been said by three speakers. In practice, the Health Inspectorate and the Youth Inspectorate have been merged for almost five months and it is only now that the legislative proposal to regulate this is dealt with in the House of Representatives. In fact, that is a special way of doing things after the meal, but, as the Minister also asks in the written answer to the questions, the Chamber has been kept well informed throughout the process. However, I still have a technical question about this. What happens to the merger in the very unlikely event that the bill won't make it? Does the merger have to be reversed? I'd like a response from the Minister. The CDA will, of course, vote in favour of the legislative proposal. It is clear that both inspections have been working together intensively for years and that the merger is therefore a logical next step. However, the CDA, like the Council of State, continues to question the fragmented approach to monitoring within the social domain. Horizontal supervision. the municipalities are already mentioned.. and vertical supervision functions side by side and through each other. Municipalities have a legal obligation to appoint their own or regional joint supervisors. In addition, after the adoption of this law, there are likely to be four national inspections in the social domain. In addition to the IJZ, this includes the Justice and Security Inspectorate, the Education Inspectorate and the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate. In 2016, the Council of State already wrote that the system responsibility of the Empire implies that the Empire should take the lead in order to ensure that supervision is overview, coherence and clarity and that this is an integral part of decentralisation. The Council of State's view was that this coherence is not now or at least very inadequate. In the written reply, the Minister states that in the coming years, on the basis of the review of the Social Support Act of 2015 and the Youth Act, it will be considered whether and, if so, how a redesign of state supervision within the social domain is indicated. The evaluation of the Youth Act is now in place, but, as Mrs Bergkamp said, there is a very brief reference to the monitoring of the system. The only thing about this is that during the expert meeting of the Youth Act legal network in 2017, the question was raised as to whether the number of supervisors, which has increased with the Youth Act, and the number of different supervisory frameworks associated with it, are not too large. The question is whether, in the light of the above, the monitoring framework should not simply be reviewed under the Youth Act. I hope that the 2015 evaluation of the WMO will give a more detailed account of the situation with regard to monitoring within the social domain and what can be improved in it. Can the Minister answer that? Or will it perhaps still be necessary to have a further investigation carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld. She speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, I have been able to listen to the contributions of the other speakers through the iPad. In that respect, I have not missed anything from the debate. Today we are discussing the merger of the Health Inspectorate and the Youth Inspectorate into the Health and Youth Inspectorate. According to GroenLinks, the inspection should play a strong role, especially in the field of youth care. Knowledge of the consequences of decentralisation in this area is very important. That is why my group has a few questions. First of all, something I have heard all the others about, namely the question of how we can only talk about the actual legislative proposal after the merger. Why exactly did this happen and can this be prevented in the future? The Council of State has recommended that consideration be given to the impact of decentralisation on monitoring by the inspection. My group wholeheartedly agrees with that. Municipalities have been given additional tasks, but that does not mean that they can automatically control the entire operation of the Youth Act. They should be supported by a strong inspection. Additional information has now been provided on the link between inspection and control in the social domain in order to create adequate and comprehensive supervision. I do not think that we can emphasise enough together how important it is that there should be additional support. That is why I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about this. What are the prospects of broadening and intensifying the cooperation of the five national inspections? For example, how do municipalities receive extra support by carrying out supervision? Has the extension of the Social Domain and Youth Inspection Panel led to improvements? The Youth Act has now been evaluated and the Wmo will follow. As a result, state surveillance in the social domain can be reviewed. Do we get more information about this in the cabinet response to the evaluation of the Youth Act? Can the Minister at least undertake to take this issue with him? Otherwise, in what time will we be getting the Social Domain Programme of the cooperating ministries in which this issue will hopefully be taken into account? A number of things stand out in the evaluation of the Youth Act. It appears that voluntary placements of young people in closed institutions were sometimes illegal. Young people who are placed out of their homes are also faced with unjustified deprivation of liberty. It is good that the inspection notes this, but can this be prevented in the future? I'd like a response from the Minister. According to GroenLinks, the combination of the two inspections to the Health and Youth Inspectorate offers opportunities to make better agreements on access and quality. Unfortunately, there are many signs that there is no place for children with complex problems, because their treatment is expensive and there are perverse incentives in the system. Freely established providers, such as psychologists and psychotherapists, can offer the possibility of treating children and young people in an accessible way. This alone is not being used well enough. We discussed this with each other the other the other day. In the opinion of GroenLinks, a supervisory body can support this. My question is whether the Minister sees it that way. Another question: how does the Minister view the role of the Health and Youth Inspectorate as regards the functioning of a local perseverance force and cooperation between the institutions? How can the IGJ contribute to accessible access and diversity in supply? Can the Minister instruct the inspection to see to this more intervening, as a sort of market master overseeing the Youth Act? I'd like a response. In answering questions asked earlier, the Minister assures us that the merger will not lead to any deterioration in quality. In fact, the answer shows that there is an expectation that cooperation on youth and adult issues can be improved. Of course, my group would find that a good solution. But are there any differences as to the time when inspections were still working separately? As of 1 April 2018, the Transition Authority for Youth will be dissolved. We also had a debate on this the other day. GroenLinks considers it very important that the knowledge and skills about the transformation of the Youth Act be well and adequately transferred. In our view, the new inspection could play a role in this. Does the Minister agree with us? Is the knowledge of the Transition Authority Youth transferred to the new inspection or how else is it designed? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, a final question on which minister is responsible. According to the portfolio distribution, both the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care and Sport are responsible for supervision. In addition, the Minister for Security and Justice also has a role to play in relation to youth recruitment with the Safety and Justice Inspectorate. How does cooperation work on these shared responsibilities? There is now a 2015 alignment document, but is this up-to-date? Can the IGJ's Decision be published and forwarded to the Chamber as recommended by the Council of State? Is there a final responsibility for all these areas? I'd like to hear from the Minister how this is done. Mr. Chairman. This was the end of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated his intention to suspend for 12 to 13 minutes. So if we meet for 12 minutes, then the bell will ring and we will continue to respond to the Minister in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	The next item is the amendment of various laws in the field of public health in connection with the merger of the Health Inspectorate and the Youth Inspectorate into the Health and Youth Inspectorate. Once all members have taken their seats again, we will start with the first term from the cabinet side. I would very much like to give the floor to the Minister for Health. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Exactly 12 minutes suspension. Exactly. I would like to thank Members for their first-term questions and considerations. Today the bill is before us with the legislative changes needed to bring about the merger between the Youth Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate. It's actually just a very technical bill. It does not affect the powers of inspection. The bill itself, in any case, does not necessarily do anything with the implementation practice. It's actually just a technical bill to get that merger done. Now a number of Members have said: is it not strange that the implementation practice has actually taken shape, namely that inspections are de facto merged while the law still has to be dealt with? Then I would like to quote Miss Ank, who says: we do not think that is weird, we find that special. The implementation practice has already anticipated the legislative amendment. That's actually beautiful. "Is it a little maltarde after the meal?', asked Mrs. Kooiman. Actually, she's kind of right about that. Mr Peters said the same thing. That's right. In fact, all the groups said that. That's right. But the implementation practice has just taken shape a little faster than the legal changes. To answer Mr. Peters' technical point, if you agree to the law, we're going to tear it apart again. It's possible. I hope that you do not, because I think it is very nice that I will illustrate this with a number of examples too, namely that the inspections are already integrated. And that is already reflected in the implementation practice. Let's start with the why. Why did we want the Youth Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate to work together? That is because the reality of the real reality in families, the real reality in institutions, the real reality in also things that go wrong in the care sector, does not at all adhere to a proper legal separation and a proper domain classification that we had devised for her, in the budget and in the organisation of our inspections. In families, problems are just getting mixed up. In the implementation practice there are different forms of care within one institution. It was really difficult for institutions to check it by calamity, for example: is this a Wlz-funded calamity and do I have to report to the Health Care Inspectorate, or is this a calamity funded by the Youth Act and should I report to the Youth Care Inspectorate? It's weird that it was taken care of that way. This no longer fits and fits in with the implementation practice. And that is why the substantive merger has been successful so quickly. It was actually so logical to do that and it's just not doable for institutions to do it differently anymore. This also applies to citizens who wish to make a notification. Mrs Bergkamp rightly asked: what is the profit for citizens? Indeed, if you can't put that into words anymore, you shouldn't make the decision. Well, in this case, the profits for citizens are very clear. If you want to report a calamity, you don't have to wonder how this care is funded; then you just have one clear hotline, one clear website, one hotline where all complaints about care can go. In short, this merger is actually just a codification of reality. And that's what we're talking about here. Although it is a very technical legislative proposal, you have actually taken advantage of the discussion to present all kinds of very exciting, beautiful substantive issues for discussion this morning. I would like to go into part of it, but I am going to park some of it for another time when we can have that debate together. Otherwise we are going to repeat debates very often, and other moments are simply better suited to be able to conduct the debate more exhaustively. I would like to mention a number of elements that will come along in the coming year where we can discuss what the inspection can do with each other. The first is the AMvBs you expect in terms of transparency. This concerns several AMvBs on the disclosure of inspection data. The first AMvB comes before the summer and deals with regular monitoring: making the reports public in the framework of regular supervision. The AMvB on the disclosure of emergency surveillance will follow later, but I would like to promise that before the summer, at the time of sending that first AMvB to the Chamber, I will let you know in a letter what will be in that second AMvB. But this still requires a lot of work, because there is a lot of technology behind it and especially a lot of consultation with the field. We can easily conclude here that we are making things public, and I am very much in favour of it myself, and I will give you an example of how well that can work, but in the field it is quite exciting. We shouldn't beat around the bush. That does mean that we have to conduct that consultation with the field carefully. That's one. Two is the Act of Accession healthcare providers. Mrs Kooiman has already referred to it: that law is in fact before us, but the Chamber has said that it still wants to know a number of things and wants to have some letters from the Minister before she goes into that law. That was particularly addressed to my colleague, Mr Bruins. And yes, that is indeed linked to the possible obligation to notify institutions covered by the Youth Act: should you want to? I'll go into that later. I understand what Mrs Kooiman says about this: if we do the homework that you have instructed us to do, I assume it will be dealt with somewhere in the coming months. That too is a time when we come to talk about the role of inspection in the accession of new healthcare providers. A third legislative proposal concerns the strengthening of enforcement instruments. That's a little technical. It's not a very comprehensive bill. It is actually a final step towards meeting the commitment made in 2015 to give more support to the inspection. That bill has recently been filed with the Chamber. That is why we are talking about the instruments of inspection. So that's three elements. Having heard what you have brought in, I would like to add the following. In fact, you have all said something about the social domain in different terms: should you not, with the social domain that is so in the process of being developed, with municipalities that are taking on their role in, for example, Wmo surveillance, think further about what that means for inspection?; how does it relate to the municipalities and to the municipal domain?; How does the inspection shape its monitoring of the social domain? I would actually like to ask you whether you would be okay if I put that in a letter, but that will just be lifted over the summer holidays so that we can have that discussion about the development of the social domain at that time too. This is due, for example, to the fact that there is an annual reporting obligation for the inspection of how the implementation of the WMO monitoring takes place in the municipalities and takes shape. I expect this to be in my direction somewhere in May. This will probably be another reason to tighten up a number of things, set up cooperation and perhaps make new cooperation arrangements. So I really want to think about that with the municipalities. And I'd like to inform you about that, but I'm gonna need some time. As far as I am concerned, this is about further development in the social domain. In short, you have to expect these four things from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	That raises a question for Mrs Bergkamp. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand from the Minister that there is at least some delay when it comes to the AMvB regarding the disclosure of calamities. First there was "early 2018" communicated, it is now "before summer." Did I get that correctly? And can the Minister, in his letter, which comes after the summer, about the social domain, also explicitly take the relationship with the Youth Act and the Youth-Ggz?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yeah, sure. I will return to Mrs Bergkamp's specific question in a moment, but the answer is yes. What about delay? I would say that is a somewhat broad interpretation. And "in the beginning of 2018"? Well, before the summer it is of course still the beginning of 2018. At least it's not the end of it. But I will come back to that in particular later. Because: normally I always divide my answer into substantive blocks. But now I couldn't really make chocolate out of it, because now it's just a whole series of questions. So then I thought, we're gonna do an experiment on this Wednesday morning; I'm gonna do a block per group. That seemed nice to me, too. We'll see how this experiment works out. We're going to evaluate it. We'll have the inspection oversee it, and then we'll see if it's a wise idea to do it again. I'm just doing it in order of entry, so I'll start with the questions of Democrats 66. Is there no reason to review state surveillance? In fact, reviewing the content of state supervision does not imply very much. It's a bit of an archaic term, which we've left to Thorbecke. I actually think it's wonderful to leave things to Thorbecke. So if I were to say that we're going to review it now, that actually doesn't mean anything. Maybe one day we'll have to do it in case of a law change. By the way, the NVWA is also involved in this, so that requires that this is well thought out. A number of laws will have to be amended. But it's a rather technical, optical adjustment. It doesn't mean that much in substance. Mrs Bergkamp's second question is whether the policy of both inspections is the same or whether it is going through a growth model. I stress that this bill as such does not change the policy of inspection. This bill just technically regulates the merger. The actual cooperation does, of course, change the content of the work. In that you can see that there is indeed growth. A good example is to make those reports public. This was not so much the case with the Health Inspectorate, but the reports of the Youth Inspectorate were always quite public when it came to calamities. Those calamities reports were also quite clear about the situation and who, which institution, had failed to do so. As an alderman, I've been given it a number of times. That was a public record of which you got a slap that sometimes you were spinning. This was always the reason for a municipal debate, which was always conducted at the sharpest of the cuts. I have seen how much openness can lead to abdominal pain, but above all to movement in reality. This is an example of how the practice of carrying out inspections is growing. This openness is a very good thing, however exciting it is going to be for some institutions and municipalities. Then the monitoring of the pgbs. There is actually no change to the current situation. The monitoring of the content and quality of care is, of course, mainly for the budget holder himself. He'll have to keep an eye on that. In the case of pgbs, the inspection has a slightly different role to that of regular care, but this bill doesn't really change that. The monitoring of pgbs continues to take shape under the Youth Act and, for example, the Wlz. Of course, the national inspection is not important, especially with regard to the Wmo. The municipalities themselves are involved in monitoring this. In short, no changes in that respect. I have just been talking about the disclosure of AMvBs. Then the evaluation of the Youth Act. In the evaluation of the Youth Act, inspection monitoring is not really a major issue. I do not know whether that is going to be a very big theme in the evaluation of the Wmo. He'll be here in a few months. That is why I am writing a letter about the further development of supervision in the social domain, but that will be after the summer. It's clear in the Youth Act. Monitoring is regulated in the national inspection. But in the Wmo, supervision is regulated in the municipalities. One municipality is already a little bit further in that direction than the other. The inspection does try to see how far municipalities are in their development. She also makes co-operation agreements. The evaluation of how these cooperation agreements work is reported in my direction. On that basis, I actually want to see what is needed in the future. What next step should you want to take at that point? Mrs Bergkamp says there is a large number of supervisors. How do people or institutions know how to report? Actually, it doesn't really matter. Fortunately, we now have one hotline where care is concerned. If a notification comes in via another inspection, for example the Inspection of Education, then through cooperation within the social domain, the back of the embroidery that the inspections have to work together. If, for example, a calamity is investigated in which a school has had an important role in dropping stings which has made it a calamity, then the back of the embroidery is as follows through the cooperation as regards supervision. The notification arrives at the point of concern of the inspection and then that calamity is unraveled. If the school plays an important role in it, the co-operating inspections ensure that they use in mandate the powers of the Education Inspectorate to question the school's steps. In short, in the implementation practice, it is simply over-achieved and fully supervised. So it is not said that there is no competence in another domain. In fact, this complexity does not exist in practice. Then the supervision of the youth-ggz. The youth ggz is part of the Youth Act and its supervision is covered by the Youth Care Inspectorate, which will be the IGJ. This is a good example of why it is of added value that the Youth Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate work together. If, for example, a calamity also concerns the stings that have been dropped in the treatment of either parent, such as not carrying out the child check properly, it is nice that an inspection can examine both sides of the matter. So this is precisely a substantive plea for cooperation that has now been established. In fact, I have already answered the question of what is happening in the case of emergencies falling under several supervisors. In practice, this should never be a reason to work alongside each other, and it is a reason to work across divisions and to use each other's powers in terms of mandate. Then there's the question: who's doing what at the care farm? It also depends a little on how that care farm was financed. If Wmo-funded care is provided, the municipality is the move. If the Youth Act or Wlz-funded care is provided, then the Health Inspectorate is called upon. If, for example, there are abuses in the field of social affairs and then there appear to be abuses in the field of health care, it will work in the way I have just described. So then the notification can come to one of the two inspections, but that inspection will call on another to ensure that supervision takes place in full. Mrs Bergkamp also asked a question about Safe Home. This is another good example of how integration is already taking place. Previously, Safe Home was hung in the Wmo. The reports, such as calamity reports, for the adult domain were covered by the Health Inspectorate and those for the youth domain under the Youth Act. Now that's put together. So the supervision of Safe Home takes place integrated from the IGJ in establishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	I have a question about the care farm and safe at home, because this will trigger me. We had a calamity at the time, in which I was raised together with Mrs Kooiman. It was about pgb-funded care and yet the inspection intervened. We were happy about that because something had to happen. The minister was just talking about pgb and the budget holder and that it depends on how it is organized and on what law it is. Well, I think this was the Youth Act and part of the Wmo and yet it was the inspection that intervened. Can the Minister indicate how it works in this particular case, also in order to better understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	When it comes to a very specific case, I should also be familiar with this specific case. I honestly don't know this case. I myself have a number of experiences with regard to this type of facility, such as sheltered housing facilities, which are partly pgb-financed, partly WMO-financed and partly WLZ-funded. As a municipality, you'll be pulling up with the inspection. The municipal supervisor then does the municipal part and the inspection does the other part. What matters is whether you can monitor the content of the quality. These possibilities are often limited because the law regulates them in such a way that the budget holder supervises them. But around this type of clubs, where there are unfortunately too many of them, there is of course a lot of things going on. Thus, hours that are indicated and part of the care plan may not be delivered. This is clearly contrary to the law and the indicative decision issued. That means you can do something at the time. To see if the quality is good enough, you have more possibilities with institution-related care than with a pgb. Then you also have a frame of reference to which you can test. This is without prejudice to the fact that such clubs can always be caught if they simply do not do what is indicated. As soon as the inspection gets signals from it and goes on, there is almost always intervention, but you need to look for the right basis under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	Finalizing, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u21	This means that cooperation between inspection and the municipality must be sought. About Safe Home, the Minister says that the inspection will now take place, but in many cases the municipality feels the responsibility to supervise Safe Home. This situation occurred in Utrecht, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yeah, I know, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u23	Were you finished with your question, Mrs Bergkamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u24	I'm not interested in the specific case. The Minister says that it is crystal clear, that it is very clear where that border line is, but in practice we find that there are still simply bulkheads. Perhaps the Minister could comment a little more on this in his post-summer letter. Maybe he can do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u25	Let me give it a try. At Safe Home it's pretty clear. The client-contractor relationship is that between the municipality and the Safe Home Organisation, organized in those 26 regions, but the functioning of Safe Home is subject, subject, object of supervision of the inspection. The same applies to institutions. As a municipality, healthcare office or health insurance company, you are the funder of the care and financiers have a great opportunity to steer on the actual implementation practice, through purchasing and contract management. It is very important that municipalities take their role in this, also in the direction of Safe Home Organisations. You cannot say: I transferred the money and then wait for the opinion of the inspection. Of course, it doesn't work that way. Fortunately, municipalities do not deal with this either; on the contrary, you see ever more solid commissioning of municipalities. I welcome that, too. Is the quality then in order and is the quality also tested against what can be expected from Safe Home Organisations? That is indeed what the inspection is strict about. Those two things, the client-contractor relationship and the supervisory relationship, guide the quality of the execution practice. Then I'm going to the next block, the block of the Socialist Party. Some questions I have, I think, already answered and some questions I will do later; excuse, I mean now. Why is there no further integration of supervision into the social domain? That's a little related to the question Mrs Bergkamp asked. I think you should focus on the further integration of supervisory implementation practice. This further integration is taking place. In cases of calamities affecting several domains, not only the domain of care, but also, for example, the domain of education or social affairs, you can see that this integrated cooperation takes place precisely in the practice of emergency monitoring. Would I also be in favour of further integration of inspections, as an organisation? I don't think so. I'm a little hesitant about that. It is already a tent with more than 700 men, 700 FTE; those are even more people. You can also merge the department of VWS and OCW. Then you're superintegral, but I think it's gonna be so unmanageable, that you're all gonna set up different boards underneath, which doesn't really make it very integral. In short, I am not necessarily in favour of further scaling up the inspection, but I am in favour of further steps in the integration of monitoring. Once again, in the way in which that should take shape in the social domain, I will go into it after I have been properly informed by the inspection of current implementation practice in the WMO monitoring and after I have read well what is said about this. This is, of course, not so much in the evaluation of the Youth Act and the Wmo. I will return to that in a letter after the summer and then tell you how I see it and what else is possible. Any eyes on the coming years? Mrs Kooiman is always afraid of words such as 'efficiency' and such, because she thinks: yes, yes, there is a cut in the budget. Well, no, I wasn't going to. Mrs Kooiman, you have also seen that the number of FTEs has actually increased slightly in recent years. That is also right, because the job that the inspection has to do is just a big one. I certainly do not have the impression that there is a lot of profit to be made by cutting back on that. There has been an increase in efficiency by putting two organisations together. I believe that we should use the space that this gives in FTEs for implementation practice. Will the IGJ make unexpected inspections more often? That really is one such example of a question that does not have so much to do with the legislative proposal before us, but simply with the method of inspection. Actually, those visits are already unannounced, unless. Sometimes you have to announce it, because then you just see more. For example, if the inspection wants to talk to clients, it is of course a bit brutal to rob them roughly. So you're gonna have to prepare for that. But actually, it's unexpected, unless. And this bill doesn't change anything about that. I've already responded to the questions about disclosure. I hear Mrs Kooiman reacting to this outside the microphone. Yeah, that's a great answer, but I already gave it to you, didn't I? Anyway, I'm going to study it so well. Does the Minister not think that suppliers should be visited more often? That too is a question that is quite separate from this legislative proposal. The IGJ will have over 700 fte, to be exact: 707 fte. Mrs. Kooiman mentioned the numbers. 330 institutions have been visited, and we are going to 4,400 on the youth side alone. If you would like to visit them all annually, you really need the tenfold of the current inspection. Then you need an inspection of 7,000 fte. I don't think that's what you want. Do I think the inspection is sufficiently detailed to do the work she has to do? Yeah, I think so, as long as you make the risk assessment in a good way. Of course, this risk assessment is getting better and better. A good assessment of what the risky institutions are is important. It's a combination of emergency visits based on notifications, risk assessments based on what you get provided with data from the institutions and notifications you get from society. That combined leads to a risk assessment where you have to visit first. I think that is a good way of working, because otherwise we will burden all the institutions with a huge bureaucratic burden. Then it's just going to cost a lot of money, that we could just spend on care. In short, I think that the current way of risk-based monitoring, which all inspections use, is a very sensible way of doing things. How does the Minister see a registration requirement for youth care institutions? You have mentioned a number of examples. I am in favour of this. It is somewhat related to the Act of Accession healthcare providers. This is, of course, being extended, but the Youth Act is not yet in place. I don't know if we should wait for that to happen before we deal with the bill. However, I think we need to clarify the way in which the cabinet is written in it. I am in favour of this on my own. We are still a little further on thinking about what its implication is. You have mentioned a number of examples of aldermen who can hardly really see who is on offer. I do think that if municipalities simply have their contracts in order, they can already reasonably have a good view of new entrants. Maybe that's less for pgb providers. That's not always the case, by the way, but it's possible. It depends a little on the contractual direction that municipalities choose. You have municipalities that opt for a tender where anyone who comes over a certain threshold can simply offer and then bill. These are contractual situations that simply make real control less possible. I would also like to enthuse municipalities not to do so, because it is simply not such a good way of steering. But that's what municipalities are about, of course. And if you do that in a good way, then you can actually hold quite good grip in the interim. But I agree with Mrs Kooiman, an actual reporting obligation would be even better because we would have even better insight into healthcare providers before they get started. So I'll come back to that, I'm just saying. Then I'm going to the block of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. Mrs Hermans is actually making a fine speech, which I very much agree with. She says: an inspection must be more than keeping ticking lists. Surely an inspection must also really want to see the content of the care, the quality of life and those who want to take it with them, also want to take it into account, in the supervision. This means that supervision is closer to the skin, closer to the core of what good care actually consists of. I very much agree with Mrs Hermans. You can see that the inspection is also making that movement or actually has made it, for example where it is about nursing home care, the actual walking with it in practice, for example. That gives a much more valuable picture, observation monitoring you call that, a much broader and more profound picture of how it is done in an institution. This way you can also stay away from the checkout supervision that before you know it.Of course, we saw that in nursing care we also become affikverklaring. That's not what you want. You want institutions to learn from the supervision you hold, and improve on the basis of the supervisory reports that are being made there. So I very much agree with Mrs Hermans. Mrs Hermans then asks an interesting question about the designation, the decision of the IGJ task force, the instructions on national inspections and how they relate to each other. One is that the instructions on state inspections have actually been fully followed in the wording of the IGJ Decision. What that actually does is to regulate in a formal sense the relationship between the Minister and the inspection. The inspection is the ministerial responsibility. But it does not mean that, in order to ensure the independence of inspections, the Minister can simply give all kinds of instructions to the inspection. That is what is laid down in the instructions on state inspections, and that is also what is laid down in the Decision on the exercise of tasks. The wordings in the Decision are based on the instructions on national inspections and are therefore more in keeping with each other. This is therefore not a substantive change, but it has essentially been a drafting change. It's been established by now. I understand from Mrs Westerveld that she would like it to be sent to the Chamber as well. By all means, of course, fine, I'd love to, but it's been established by now. What this really means is, if I sum up very briefly, that the inspection is independent and at the same time falls under ministerial responsibility. How do we take care of that? That is to say that only the Minister can give a clue to the inspection. The indication can never mean that the inspection should not investigate a case, because that could lead to things being placed under the mat. That's a clue the minister should never give to the inspection. In order to make it public, the Minister, when he gives a clue, for example, towards an individual institution, is supposed to say, "go and investigate it, because I get this-or-this signal," to make that public. So not so much when there's just an appointment, like "do a theme research on...," and then call an entire industry for example. That is not an indication in the sense of this designation decision, so it does not have to be made public, but it does when it comes to an institution with a name and a name: 'take a look at it, because I am getting signals'. Then I must make such an indication public, so that you can check that I am pure in the wording towards the inspection. As far as the inspection is concerned and the way in which the inspection arrives at its conclusions and arrives at its observations, i.e. on the substance of the inspection, I cannot and cannot, as a minister, give any guidance on this. That's why that clue has to be public, so you can test it. In this way independence is strictly guaranteed, through that decision. But I'll send it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u26	I thank the Minister for this explanation. This way, I can totally follow him. It is also good to hear that independence is really secured in all these steps. But I'm going to come to my question in a very specific way. The note following the report states that the definition is closer to... So you confirm that this is merely a narrower editorial definition and that it has nothing to do with the content and the elaboration of the power of designation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u27	I do confirm that. That's right. The VVD also asks: how will the control of quality improvement of supervision look exactly; what do we expect from it? That's actually kind of what I just illustrated. I think it is a real improvement in quality if the integrality of the exercise of supervision is improved. That's happening right now. The second point is what you also mentioned in your introductory speech, namely that the inspection really made the switch from the 'finch lists', as you called them, to seeing what really is the core of good care. It is also about the quality of life. It's about the core of care in that institution. This means that the inspection also organises itself differently in the way in which monitoring is carried out. For example, I call it walking along, observation monitoring. That really is a new way of working, which leads to better quality. Internally, of course, there is also plenty of emphasis on the improvement of the quality of the people themselves, education and so on. Mr President, I would like to move on to the block of the Christian-Democratic Appeal. I have already answered some of Mr Peters' questions. He also asked: should the monitoring framework for the Youth Act be reviewed? That is not necessary with this bill. The supervisory framework can therefore simply remain the supervisory framework. We had a supervisory vision of Minister Schippers. On this basis, the monitoring framework was established by the inspection. This has also been done on the basis of the legal amendments that started as of January 2015. In the supervisory framework, the inspection translates into the implementation practice of the monitoring: what is the inspection going to look after, given the law, given the professional standards, the professional standards formulated from the field? What does that mean for institutions? What can they count on when an inspector steps over the threshold? For example, if professional standards require this or if the legal changes require it, a new supervisory framework will be created for the inspection. This law does not lead to this, but it can of course happen in the coming period. Once again, the monitoring framework is therefore an instrument of inspection. It is what the inspection reveals to institutions: this is what you can expect from us, given the professional standards and given the legal frameworks. I have already answered Mr Peters' other questions. Finally, I have the block GroenLinks. I have already answered a number of questions in the direction of GroenLinks. I think I have sufficiently emphasised the strengthening of cooperation in implementation practice, including in response to other questions. Then I don't have to do it again. Mrs Westerveld mentions the cabinet response to the evaluation of the Youth Act and asks whether this is also relevant for monitoring. I'm gonna take that in the letter I want to send after the summer. I do not think that the evaluation of the Youth Act deals with this very much separately. Then Mrs Westerveld asks about the role of the IGJ in the functioning of the local perseverance force. She mentions the role of market master, for example. What role could the inspection play on that front? I would like to go into that in a little more detail. This is also in line with the questions put by Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Westerveld in the previous debate on the TAJ. The municipalities have the statutory mandate to provide adequate care and care. This is a duty of care given to the municipalities. They fulfil this duty of care by setting up a good client-contractorship in the direction of institutions. That is the first and most important task. This is monitored by the city council. If a municipality is messing around in that respect, to say the least, the city council will have a firm answer to the alderman. That's the way it's supposed to be. That's how it happens. You can see that in all kinds of city councils. It really works the way we figured it out. The city councils can be very firm in that. I also remember that from my own experience. That's a good thing. For example, what is part of the conversation that municipalities have in every sense in municipal councils can be a report on inspection supervision following a calamity. Recommendations may emerge from this because it is not well-organised, for example the recommendation that institutions, the municipality or someone else should operate differently and better. This is involved in the debate and then the municipality starts working on it. So far, so good. What you have occasionally is that there is a dispute between the municipality and institutions, for example when it comes to the pricing. That is a subject on which there may be a difference of opinion. Even then, the city council is the first to resolve that dispute with its alderman. It may be that the city council is very much in agreement with the alderman, but the institution still cannot do so at that rate. Then you need something in that mediation role. Then you need a perseverance force. Actually, that part has the T.A.J. He now plays the role of mediator. The last time I was told, make sure that you guarantee that role in a proper way and that you guarantee it, also in the future. I'd really like to do that. I'm talking to the municipalities and the TAJ about what that sequel might look like. I do think that the TAJ is going to have a different role because part of the current role, ensuring that institutions do not fall down, do not go bankrupt, is a little bit after decentralisation, but that role, I think, is a bit over. The role of playing market master, sometimes pushing through the role of something when there is a stalemate between municipality and institution, that role can very well be taken over. That must be done very smoothly. These tasks must be safeguarded, but I do not think that the inspection is the first step in this respect. There's a reason. The inspection should also maintain its independence towards the implementation practice. The inspection must be able to say at some point that this institution has not done so well. If the inspection has also played a role in the fact that that institution has, for example, been awarded a contract, the inspection will have a co-responsibility for the implementation practice. I think the inspection should keep her independence. On the contrary, I would not want to put it in the role of market master, but the task must be fulfilled. That's what I'm talking to the T.A.J. and the congregations about. Are there any differences in current implementation practice? I have given a number of examples of this. I can see that these differences are already quite noticeable. Safe Home is a very tangible example, but the main example is the emergency research in which the Youth and Health Inspectorate is already working fully together, but in which cooperation with other parties in the monitoring of the social domain is also increasingly found to be better. Who's responsible for this, anyway? Well, I, that's the first and the easiest answer for the inspection as an organization. It is a matter of ministerial responsibility. I'm in touch with the operation of the inspection. Then it's about the ownership role, so about the budget, do they have enough people, does the inspection function well? That ownership role belongs to this minister. The content, i.e. the programmatic side of it, what about the medical-specialist care, what about the GGZ, is covered by my colleagues' portfolio? The substantive programme of inspection monitoring, i.e. the outcome of monitoring visits, is covered by the portfolio distribution as we have done. So the ownership role with the minister of, and the substantive division of labour just follows the portfolio distribution. The same goes for the Justice Department. The substantive programmatic side follows the portfolio distribution between Grapperhaus and Dekker. The owner side of it is with the minister of, so Professor Dr. Grapperhaus. Then there is another part that is the subject of research by both the Youth Inspectorate and the Justice and Security Inspectorate. That is the Council for Children's Protection in the implementation practice of youth protection. Both inspections work together. GroenLinks asked about the decision task exercise. I've just explained that in detail, but I'm perfectly capable of sending it. I think I've gone through the cubes and answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u28	I see that Mrs Hermans has another question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u29	I've been thinking about it for a while. It is about the AMvBs that hang under the bill active disclosure supervisory information. Now I know the Minister as an ambitious minister who is always quite concrete about when we can expect plans, programmes and related relevant documents, but he remains a little vague about this AMvB. I would actually like to ask whether it is possible to put a deadline on it after all. I also understand that it must be done carefully, and I think it is important, through you, Madam President, that the Minister does so in good consultation with the field. If you're gonna make this kind of information public, it's gonna make a few demands. I think that something of a deadline, which will also speed things up, is good, because I really think that this is important for the next step that we want to take in monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u30	I understand the question very well. I would also like to thank Mrs Hermans for her implicit encouragement. You see me browsing very busy, because this was the brilliant Q&A who just put the inspection on my desk. I'm going to recapitulate him. If you shake no very hard, I know I'm wrong and I'll come back to it in second term. But two AMvBs are about to arrive. The first one's coming for the summer. The target date is 1 July. That's the AMvB that controls disclosure of the regular inspection reports. It goes in the second half of that year. On that occasion I will also send the contents of the AMvB which I am sending to the Chamber for Christmas. It's about the disclosure of emergency surveillance. What comes in there, I'll let you know on the occasion of sending that first AMvB to the Chamber, so on July 1st, so that you can get involved because they're front-hanging AMvBs at the dispute that you'll probably go to with me next on the basis of the AMvB to hang.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you very much for this commitment. Did you say June 1st or July 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u32	No, I said July 1, 1-7.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u33	That's totally good; it's just that I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you. By the way: for the summer... I think the summer starts on June 21st. So I think it was a justified question from Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u35	Oh, that's delicious. I wish it were summer, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u36	You would have come to the end of the answer. That also brings us to the end of the first term. I note that Members need a second term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have a follow-up question about the AMvB disclosure calamities. The Ministry first indicated: early 2018. Now I understand that it will only come at Christmas and that we will get a letter before the summer with a little more clarity. Is that right? I do understand that the other AMvB, about regular supervision, really comes before the summer. So I'd like some more clarity on that. For the rest, I have already indicated in my speech that we support this bill. We also expect a lot of it, especially when it comes to more and better supervision. That's important. I thought that Mrs Hermans also said this nicely: that is about the quality of care. In the end, this also affects the quality of care that the people in it achieve. What remains to be asked is how this is going with the integrated supervision and the social domain. I understand that the Minister says he is going to involve that in the evaluation of the Wmo, so we also hope that this will be clarified. For the rest, I think the story is pretty clear when it comes to who's doing what. When it comes to the municipalities, it is the contractor, the client. When it comes to the quality of care, the inspection is responsible. If we find that there is a case-law that leads to some ambiguity, then we can find the Minister again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u38	Thank you. I now give Mrs Kooiman an opportunity for her second term. I call Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. The Minister was rather surprised that he got so many beautiful questions from all of us. That is not surprising, because there really is a heading of "tasks inspection" in the law, but besides that, the work of the inspection is of course extremely important, especially for our controlling task in the Lower House. We would like to keep an eye on the fact that calamities are being resolved; for that, of course, it is very important. I am therefore quite pleased that we also have a substantive debate here, apart from the technical design in the debate. One of the substantive points was the obligation to register, in particular my concern about those private healthcare providers. Indeed, care is often bought by means of a pgb, which is also community money, but many aldermen do not always see that, and so the inspections do not. A colleague of mine once said: When Peter stood at the heavenly gate and the patience was distributed, the SP'ers stood at the back. I believe that too, because I don't really have patience. I have been waiting since 2003 for this obligation to register, when the inspection has already indicated: gosh, we want that settled once. It's now 2018 and the minister just said in his first term: well, I think it's a great idea, but let's go over it with another legal treatment. I can't do that. Let us at least do something about this; let me put it this way. So I'd like to give the Minister a little bit of homework, and I'm doing it through this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Youth Insurance Inspectorate already called for registration in 2003;]] [[Whereas it is important for municipalities as well as for the inspection, in carrying out their control tasks, to know which (youth care) institutions operate in a municipality;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there is a reporting obligation for both new and existing youth care providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34797-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u41	I would like to thank you very much and look towards Mrs Hermans for her second term. I call Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. As far as I am concerned, this was very clear about the objective that the Minister envisages with this merger and also the future of monitoring our concerns. That is: appropriate care, care of top quality but above all personal care. I am also thinking of the issue of independence of supervision, particularly as regards the power of designation that we discussed in the debate. One final question, which is about the letter the Minister is going to send about monitoring in the social domain. Did I understand correctly that this letter comes after the evaluation of the Wmo has been completed, so that the information contained in it can also be involved in the debate that we are undoubtedly going to have about that letter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you. I would now like to give Mr Peters the opportunity for his second term. He states that he will not use his second term. Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, because we have indeed asked a lot of questions, but the Minister has given a very clear explanation, also in relation to our last question: who is actually responsible: the minister or one of his colleagues. In that respect, our questions have been well answered. I would like to ask the Minister to look briefly at the role of inspection in relation to access for children with complex problems, because there are a lot of problems there. The Minister briefly commented on this. Can he say anything more about whether we can help these children in the future and what the role of the inspection is in this? GroenLinks is also very curious about the Minister's plans to retain knowledge and skills of the Youth Transition Authority. But we look forward to the Minister's further plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber and I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to respond in the second period. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna answer the questions as they were asked. I'll start making the AMvBs public. I think it's okay to recapitulate that for a while. Look, it was initially promised that the first AMvB would be sent to the Chamber in early 2018. Now I say: that first AMvB is coming by the summer of 2018, so 1.7. This is about regular disclosure supervision. On that occasion I will also write down what will be written in the AMvB, which then later, namely by Christmas 2018, goes to the Chamber about the emergency oversight. Before we get the picture that this is a huge delay in relation to what was previously promised: it was only promised for the next six months, so even before 1 July 2019. In short, it goes forward. Even more beautiful is that in the youth field there is already public disclosure when it comes to emergency monitoring. In the case of IGZ, the adult side, this is only in the case of emergencies which have led to a very large social debate. This is, exceptionally, already the subject of publication. In short, the AMvB is regular as of 1.7; on this occasion our vision of what should be made public and what should be done within the framework of emergency surveillance. Where youth is concerned, emergency surveillance is already public. So I think we're really taking firm steps towards that disclosure. Then the Socialist Party. It wasn't at the front when patience was handed out. Neither do I, so I do recognize it. But she uses that as an introduction to file a motion. What's in there is what I could have said myself. So in that sense, I cannot oppose this motion. I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. I would add that I do not necessarily need the encouragement to just do what you ask me to do. I can also accept the motion, but I still do not necessarily need the encouragement to just do what you ask. In itself, I would like to say Court of Justice, but I'm just going to do it this way. I will make sure that, before the Wtza is dealt with, there is a letter about how and when we are going to regulate the obligation to register for youth care providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u47	I shall put the motion to the vote because we have been waiting since 2003. We may have a new minister, but my experience on this point is not very good. I would also like to give the Minister a little support. This law was already on the agenda. The cabinet hadn't finished its homework by then. Since there is now additional homework, I would like to give this Minister my encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u48	That's very sweet; thank you very much. But I'm not changing my judgment anymore. Then there is the supervision of the social domain. Mrs Hermans asks whether I am also involved in the results of the evaluation of the WMO. Yeah, because that's why I come with my letter just after the summer. I expect the results of the Wmo evaluation for the summer. The one about the Youth Act is already in, of course. We're coming up with a policy response, and that's how I can put things together. I think that of all the reports that are to come, the observation of the inspection on how the WMO is now monitored will tell the most and will also provide the most concrete recommendations for a next step that we have to take. I have a remaining question from GroenLinks on the role of inspection in complex problems. If the IGJ gets a report about a child with complex problems that cannot be put in front of him, then the inspection takes care of it and refers to municipalities and institutions. If the IGJ receives notification in the form of a calamity, a disaster investigation can be carried out, in which institutions are actually called upon to fail to fulfil their role in complex problems in order to find a solution. With regard to complex problems and the question of how we should do better for children who have problems in different areas and therefore need a range of care that has not yet been developed, I myself tend not to rely entirely on the inspection, because it is of course always afterwards and you want institutions and municipalities to become more legally competent in this area. That is why we have agreed with municipalities to set up an expert team in each region for complex problems and to compose the offer that may not yet exist. With regard to offer that is there but apparently not on everyone's retina, it has to be said: here you have to be, at that institution there is still room. So we're trying to solve it along multiple lines. But the inspection has a role to play, I'm sure. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second period and hence to the deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u50	I would like to inform you that the vote on the legislative proposal and the motion tabled will take place on Tuesday 6 March. I shall suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. After the suspension, we will begin voting. I thank the Minister for his contribution and the people in the public gallery for their interest in this debate.
