ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the Turkish attack on Syria. I give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. An Ottoman blow is a hefty blow that you give someone with the flat hand, but so powerful that someone immediately knocks out or that the victim even gets a skull fracture and immediately falls dead. Now Mr Erdogan has threatened our most loyal ally, the United States, with such an Ottoman blow. And he does so in response to statements by an American general, who draws a clear line for Erdogan's military troops in northern Syria. An Islamic regime that does not respect human rights therefore threatens our main security partner with a skull fracture. Why don't you let that work on you? Mr. Chairman. The PVV has for years warned of Erdogan's blind hunger for power and his ambition to expand Turkey's influence in the region. The Turkish invasion in Afrin is therefore no surprise, but Erdogan is going to take this action a step further. For until now he has been working secretly and secretly with Al-Nusra, but now there is a public build-up of jihadists associated with Al-Qaeda. Jihadists who drive Kurds and Jezidis out of Afrin and chase over the blade. That is a poisonous and colourful collection of Islamic warriors. That Erdogan regime is also working overtime to crush political opponents. Anyone who walks out of step can be picked from the street, and just from the people who criticize that military raid 600 have already been arrested. Mr. Chairman. Civilian freedoms are not cut off and strangled as quickly as they are in Turkey. Now that I have already proposed an acute and necessary response to the Ottoman violence in the previous debate, perhaps we could move on to a broader analysis. As far as the PVV is concerned, we need to discuss whether and how the Netherlands can continue with Turkey. The government replied to question 23 of the written questions that the pause in talks with Turkey relates only to the discussion on normalization of relations. But for the rest, the cabinet: business as usual. And that business as usual with Turkey has actually yielded nothing so far. Mr. Chairman. The Turkish attack on Afrin can only be explained by fear and hatred of the Kurds. Erdogan is surfing a wave of Ottoman nationalism and is working on a neo-Ottoman dream in which he can exert decisive influence on the region. The Kurds are a great sta-in-the-way. The American bond with those Syrian Kurds is also that for Erdogan. In addition, Erdogan has more recently roused the Western world including the United States. I am thinking of the arrests of the staff of the American Consulate and the performance of Erdogan's bodyguards against demonstrators in Washington. I told you, Erdogan surfs a wave of Ottoman nationalism. There is a growing hatred of the West among his supporters. It's being stirred up and exploited by Erdogan. That also makes it very difficult, and perhaps impossible, to take another step back. So far, Western policy has been "dating and keeping wet." We are expressing concerns about the authoritarian developments in Turkey, about the destruction of the independent judiciary, and now again about the attack in Afrin. But it's clear that that line doesn't yield anything and is even counterproductive, because Erdogan just feels like he's not being put in the way. I think that should change. Erdogan must be made clear that his actions are going to have consequences. We need to get rid of that daddy and wet, and move on to a transactional approach. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this at once. This applies to developments in Turkey, but also, of course, to developments concerning the attack on Afrin. For the sake of shortness, I shall now confine myself to the latter. I'll make three proposals. Make it clear, I say to the Minister, that the raid will not be tolerated. Secondly, add material consequences, for example in the form of an arms embargo. But perhaps you should also consider whether the EU-Bulgaria Summit should still talk to Turkey. Thirdly, sanctions must be imposed against Turkish officials involved in the decision-making of military adventures outside the Turkish border. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'd like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Almost a month ago, under President Erdogan's leadership, Turkey illegally invaded Northern Syria. Syria will be sucked into a new war even before the last one is over. The result is even more discontent, even more instability, deaths and refugees, for Syria and the region. Northern Syria was relatively quiet despite all the misery in Syria, with a democratic self-government of Kurds, Christians, Jezidis and other peoples living together in Syria. But now Erdogan must also destroy that. Because he should not be in his own country Kurds and dissidents, they must apparently also be terrorized across the border. 'Cause imagine people getting democratic rights. Mr. Chairman. That is the real motive of the Turkish regime. In their own country, people who advocate peace are simply imprisoned, just like the opposition. However, Turkey's self-defense card is drawn towards NATO's allies and Europe. That is the argument of self-defense that the international legal scholars have cut off. Yesterday, in newspaper Trouw, there was still a large piece with a unanimous conclusion: "The Turkish invasion is a flagrant violation of international law." Everyone sees that the Turkish regime is not working against the jihadists, but with them. They do not cooperate with the allies of the West against ISIS, but rather want to eliminate those allies. That weakens the fight against jihadism. That gives them new space, and we can see that. It is not surprising that many people at home and abroad are bewildered by this action, especially the lack of clear condemnation by NATO, world leaders and EU countries. I would like to call on our government to set an international example here and now. Is the Minister prepared to condemn this illegal attack by the Turkish Government on Northern Syria without fuss? It's about time. The SP has another request. The Netherlands is still supplying arms to the Turkish regime. Parts of fighter aircraft that the Turks could use in their invasion into Syria. Arms trade specialists also fear that weapons sold without a licence to Turkey can be used in this dirty war. Does the government therefore want to freeze arms sales to Turkey? As far as we're concerned, no more weapons to Turkey. Mr. Chairman. The behaviour of Erdogan's Turkey, namely the permanent war, the unjust leadership, the constant struggle with values that are important to us and international law: I am done and, I think, many with me. The foreign international law adviser of the minister also strongly doubts the extent to which the Dutch F-16's action in Syria is still in line with that same international law. May I have a response from the Minister? Mr. Chairman. It's time to stop the politics of weapons. I hope that will be the commitment of our government. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she supports the UN call for arms in Syria, all weapons, to be silenced and for a cease-fire to take place for all parties so that the necessary humanitarian aid can be made possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	After the situation in Afrin began, tensions in the Netherlands also increased. Several attacks took place on Turkish organisations, a taxi driver was attacked in Amsterdam and windows were smashed at an organisation in Rotterdam. What is Mrs Karabulut's message about these attacks on all kinds of organisations and tensions in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	Horrible. You can't do that. It can't be. Nor should there be any harassment on the part of those who disagree, as is happening in Turkey. We have a debate here in a democratic country, in an open parliament, and we disagree. It is not possible to place other people as terrorists or as fascists. This is not the way to come up with solutions. But, Mr Kuzu, we are having a debate here on the illegal Turkish invasion of Syria. That is why I have not considered the issue of integration and internal affairs. But, as always, you will find me by your side: violence, threats, silence or anything else that matters is absolutely not the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u7	In any case, I am pleased that Mrs Karabulut has distanced herself from the attacks of PKK sympathizers on all kinds of organisations. It's a good thing we agree on that. This brings me to my second question. Mrs Karabulut calls it an illegal invasion. How does it then assess the statement of the Secretary-General of NATO that Turkey is the country that has dealt with most terrorist attacks and that the right to self-defense exists?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u8	The right to self-defense exists for peoples. Turkey has certainly had to deal with attacks. Turkey has supported IS and jihadists. It's working with it now. Unfortunately, however, the Turkish people have also had to deal with attacks. In Turkey, there is still an unresolved Kurdish issue. There are attacks, and of course they must stop, but the solution is not to use force and to terrorize a people in another country. Then the solution is that you're gonna sit down at the table with each other and fix it. That's what's happening here, Mr. Kuzu. I would like your party, with your influence, to take a firm position on this and condemn these illegal actions, namely the invasion of another country because they simply do not want the Kurds to have self-government there with other peoples, for which there is no evidence. There is no international mandate for this. And there's no invitation from the Syrian government. If you condemn it, we'll get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr President, I know that I am now asking my third question of the four I am allowed to ask. I want to be very sharp on it. I really want to be very sharp on it. We're not telling each other that we should have dinner with the terrorist organization Daesh, ISIS or IS, are we? Then surely no one should want to sit down with the terrorist organization PKK? Do you even understand what you're asking here? My question is therefore: do you consider the terrorist organisation PKK to be a terrorist organisation? I'd like a clasp-and-ready answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u10	The level of this debate is falling. But I understand exactly where Mr Kuzu is going with this. Mr Kuzu (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I can assure you, and you can also assure your own people: I am a representative of the people and I am a socialist. And yes, the PKK is on the list of terrorist organisations. And yes, I disapprove of violence. And yes, stopping violence and achieving peace is done by sitting at each other's tables. Your great example, Mr Erdogan, was on the table with this organisation a few years ago. I really do not think that you are in any way rewarding the Kurds, who are currently fighting against the ISIS fascists for all of us, and that you are actually justifying an illegal invasion of the Turks. This way we can't beat IS. In this way, the people who deliver the boots on the ground and fight against IS are actually being terrorized by President Erdogan at the moment. That only feeds terrorism, I would like to say to Mr Kuzu. We can philosophize about that concept of terrorism. Those are also political choices. I was just talking about Palestine and the occupation of Palestine. In some ways, the actions of girls like Ahed are also terrorist. So there are all kinds of gradations in that, but to sum it up: yes, terrorism must be stopped; no, an illegal invasion of Turkey into Syria cannot be justified in any way, not even by throwing the PKK and IS at a pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u11	Ahed is not on the list of internationally recognized terrorists wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u12	Neither is the YPG.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u13	Yeah, the PKK did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u14	Not the YPG.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u16	By the way, my biggest example is my grandfather, a man who worked very hard to make something of his life and to do so for his children and grandchildren. That is a personal fact, but I do not hear a clear answer from Mrs Karabulut. I know from the past that the SP has tabled motions to remove the PKK from the list of terrorist organisations. Mrs Karabulut then gives a factual view: yes, the PKK is a terrorist organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u17	That's exactly what you want to hear, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u18	I ask Mrs Karabulut if she wants to give a clear answer: what does she think of the terrorist organisation PKK? As a People's Representative of the SP, do you consider the PKK to be a terrorist organisation and the YPG to be an organisation associated with the PKK?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u19	Two things: yes, the PKK is on the list of terrorist organisations. Two, the YPG isn't on there. And yes, the two are related, but my question to Mr Kuzu is then whether he condemns this illegal attack on Syria. 'Cause then we'll come a step further. Do you think that in Turkey Mr Erdogan should also respect human rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mrs. Karabulut...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u21	Do you think political prisoners should be released? Do you think that the violence should stop by starting peace negotiations? 'Cause then we'll get on with it. You may want to get me into a certain angle, Mr. Kuzu, but you need to know better. I'm not a terrorist. People who want peace and plead for it are not terrorists. Don't feed those feelings among your own supporters right now. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr Kuzu has passed through his questions, but you ask him a question. He will therefore have the opportunity to respond briefly to this. I'd still be a little respectful with each other. I find each other to be "terrorist" quite a lot in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr President, I did not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u24	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mrs Karabulut is personally involved in this. That is fine, but I have just given Mrs Karabulut four times the opportunity to distance herself from it. Up to four times she has done that, as far as I am concerned, the viewer may judge that for herself. I would like to say to Mrs Karabulut in particular: spare your questions; I will be on that side and you will be able to ask all your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u26	Well, knowing Mrs. Karabulut... Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u28	I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It takes some time, but then the cathedral is also at a pleasant height for me. More than three weeks ago, Erdogan started his attack on Afrin in Syria. We are getting more and more disturbing reports about the situation there. The instability in the region is increasing and the number of victims is increasing. We are dealing with a divided international community. I would like to make three points about Afrin. One: the responsibility that applies when you invoke Article 51 of the UN Charter. Two: proportionality. Three: the fight against ISIS. Contrary to previous speakers, I would also like to say a few words about the poisonous gas attacks, which most likely took place in Syria. Mr President, first of all on Rule 51 and accountability. I have already said in general consultation that Turkey did not invoke Article 4 of NATO. Turkey did not consult the allies, but immediately used Article 51 of the UN Charter. That does mean that this NATO ally has a very expensive duty to inform us as allies and as an alliance about the grounds on which it uses this. My group therefore has the following questions to the Minister. How much room can we give Turkey and how much longer can we wait for that responsibility? I also ask this because I believe that yesterday the Minister of Defence asked very strongly in the NATO alliance where it remained to be held. We are in favour of this. I would also like Turkey to be spoken at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I would like to add immediately that I find this action self-defeating. That's not surprising either. Self-defense is a right, but the number of civilian casualties that seem to fall, and certainly the distraction from the fight against IS that is taking place now, a battle that is certainly not over yet, is simply disgusting. As far as I am concerned, this Minister is trying to work within NATO and also within the EU to reach a unanimous judgment on Turkey's attack, as long as Turkey does not provide evidence to justify this attack. I see Mrs Karabulut at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u30	I see Mrs Karabulut, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u31	Does D66 condemn this illegal attack?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u32	I condemn this attack. Unlike Mrs Karabulut, I would like to be more careful. Mrs. Karabulut says he's illegal. But we can't determine that yet. Turkey has now provided so much evidence that it is clear that the previous Foreign Minister said there was "ground." But there is not so much and such evidence yet that the use of Article 51 can be justified. With that, I condemn the attack, but I would like to hold off on saying that the attack is illegal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u33	Good. It was my conviction that mattered. I can therefore count on the support of the D66 Group if we ask for this in a motion. The evidence wasn't provided. You can wait another four weeks and ask the Turks five more times, but it's just not there. There is no invitation from the Syrian Government, nor is there a UN mandate. We do know that we have more than a hundred dead and a few thousand refugees present. So I welcome this support from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u34	I do not know whether this is at the expense of Mrs Karabulut's questions, because this was more of a comment. I'd like to be specific. My group condemns this attack. It does so because of the lack of proportionality and of the fight against IS. My group cannot condemn the attack because it is illegal, as Mrs Karabulut says without evidence or proof. I would like to ask this Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what I have just said very clearly in order to arrive at a joint conviction in NATO and the EU if Turkey's evidence is not to be proved. I think that's right. In relation to the position of the Netherlands, I would like to point out that a single ally may have already spoken, but that no ally currently has no ambassador in Turkey. Some actions speak a little louder than some words, I would like to say to Mrs Karabulut. Mr. Chairman. I've already talked about proportionality. I would like to talk briefly about the fight against ISIS. I am very concerned that this invasion of Turkey will lead to a weakening and distraction of the fight against IS. What evidence does this minister have that this raid is currently at the expense of the fight against ISIS in Eastern Syria? Is it also prepared to take a clear position on this? I also ask this because the former minister indicated that the army leadership of SDF previously said not to move troops from the front lines in Eastern Syria to the battle in Afrin. I am now getting reports that this is indeed the case, even though it is denied in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u35	Let me return to the point made by Mr Sjoerdsma about the nature of the condemnation of Turkey's invasion. He says: there is no other ally who does not have an ambassador in Ankara, and that speaks loudly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u37	So I'm quoting you correctly. I have just read in the answers to the questions we have asked the government about the withdrawal of the Dutch ambassador that what is happening in Afrin has absolutely nothing to do with that. That's pretty much what it says. How does Mr Sjoerdsma see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u38	I can see that exactly as I just said. Let me also say that I do not really understand that a former Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation would not see that too. In no way does Afrin have a direct relationship with the reason why the Netherlands does not currently have an ambassador in Turkey. We all know where that came from: that difficult series of incidents in March last year, when Turkey rushed things and also demanded an apology from the Netherlands for making amends. That's why we don't have an ambassador in Turkey. But the reason...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr President, one last sentence. But let me also say that there is also a context and there is also a pattern. I think Mrs Ploumen has enough experience to be able to read that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u41	I am delighted with the justified compliments on my record of service made by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u42	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u43	I would just like to point out that we do not need to talk about this anymore, but that Mr Sjoerdsma made a link between what is happening in Afrin and whether or not the Dutch ambassador is present in Turkey, not me. I asked for a clarification, and I got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u44	Yeah, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u45	Please continue. Oh, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u46	I actually thought Mr Sjoerdsma was almost ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u47	Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u48	I agree with a great deal of what he has said so far, including his answer to the question whether D66 ultimately condemns the Turkish invasion or not. That was a clear answer. I'm not sure if D66 now thinks the cabinet should condemn that raid, but maybe I didn't listen properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u49	Perhaps I have not expressed myself sufficiently; that might be possible. My appeal is very clear: as far as I am concerned, the cabinet, as it has done quite clearly and clearly in recent weeks, remains committed within NATO and the European Union to a joint conviction as a "if": an important word is not enough to prove Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mr. Chairman. I have talked about the raid, but I would also like to talk about something that is immediately condemnable: the use of chemical weapons in Syria. I would almost say, but I do not dare to do so with regard to international law, that evidence is not always necessary. Once again, we have received reports that Assad has waged poison gas attacks against his own citizens in East Ghouta. Terrible images, horrible images. We have had to hear it more often this year, but it is simply unacceptable that Assad crosses this red line over and over again. What frustrates me then is that in the autumn of last year the verification mechanism of the OPCW will simply be thrown out, because Russia has that veto in the Security Council. I would like to ask the Minister what possibilities we have now to ensure, first of all, that these poison gas attacks are verified. That's more important than anything. That's the line of our civilization. Secondly, what can the Netherlands do in the Security Council to prevent the future deployment of such weapons? I sincerely hope that we fully support the French initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u52	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Sjoerdsma, I would like to zoom in on three aspects of the Turkish invasion in Syria. They're related, but they're not exactly the same. I would first like to zoom in on the human suffering we see in the war in Syria. That's incredibly big. Since Turkey started operation Olive branch, fear has now also reigned in this region, which was relatively quiet. We hear about civilian casualties and have seen horrible images of the murder and mutilation of a female Kurdish warrior. What does the Cabinet do to investigate these events? I understand that this cannot necessarily only be done bilaterally, but in what way is the government trying to get the facts of this humanitarian suffering out of hand? In the letter we received today, the government reports on the poisonous gases to which Mr Sjoerdsma himself referred that the Turkish offensive in Afrin further complicates the humanitarian situation. I'd like a reflection from the government and the minister on that. My second point is the geopolitical context. The war in Syria knew and knows many fronts, many varying loyalties and many negotiating tables. Now there's this raid again. How does the government see this raid in the face of the geopolitical chaos that is already there? Does it bring a solution closer or not? How are we supposed to see that now? My third point has already been raised by Mr Sjoerdsma and others. We have not actually seen and heard any hard justification from Turkey on the basis of which it started that operation Olive branch. I heard yesterday that your colleague Bijleveld addressed the issue. The Chamber has also called for this, so thank you for that. If I have read the message correctly, Turkey is going to explain it today. Is that explanation in yet? And if so, how does the cabinet view that? Finally, on this subject, I agree with what others have said. When is the cabinet going to condemn this raid? It's been three weeks. We haven't seen any evidence. It seems to me that the government must speak out more clearly than it has done so far. That is why we have this debate today. Mr. Chairman. I shall now come to my final point. The Dutch ambassador has been withdrawn from Turkey and there is no longer an ambassador from Turkey here in The Hague. That has the disadvantage that we cannot call on the Turkish ambassador either. That is a problem in the light of what we are talking about here today. I would like an appreciation from the Minister of what she has asked in reply to our questions, namely that the ambassador has been withdrawn from Ankara, but that it is further business as usual. Does this mean that the Minister and the Cabinet feel that the withdrawal of that ambassador has no real impact? Should we consider that a symbolic measure? Or does it really have consequences for the dialogue on the very operation of Olive branch and the human rights violations that we see in Turkey? It's hard to get the finger behind that. I would therefore like the cabinet to tell us more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u54	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Mr Ten Broeke has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. On 20 January around five o'clock Turkish forces began with silent agreement of the Russians and with the help of the Free Syrian Army operation Olive branch in Syria. This military operation has actually become synonymous with the Kurdish-Syrian region of Afrin. Not only have 33 Turkish soldiers lost their lives since the start of Operation Olijdtak, but 163 on the side of the Free Syrian Army. On the Kurdish side, 150 to 200 militia fighters were killed and 77 civilians, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Mr. Chairman. I have no problem whatsoever, no difficulty at all in rejecting this military action from this position, even if only because the Turks have at no time made a convincing appeal to Article 51 of the UN Charter and have thereby provided grounds for self-defense. Even the legitimate ones, I repeat: the legitimate security concerns that Turkey has because it has been subjected to Kurdish terror for years cannot at present be regarded as those justifications because the Turks simply do not do so. We also have serious doubts about the proportionality of the action. Legality requires investigation. We all know the steps necessary for this. Then the point is, in this Chamber, that we should always have a recurring debate or the government should wave its finger and whether all this is just air moving. We do not have a bilateral relationship at the moment, at least not at the highest level. I would like to fit in with the idea of multilateralising a bilateral relationship at the moment. There is no relationship between what happened in Rotterdam last year and what is happening in Afrin now. There's no direct relationship between those two. The only common denominator, literally and figuratively, is the Turkish government, which acts improperly both in its own region and after allies. That's the common denominator. What are we gonna do? We have to deal with this in NATO. The Netherlands is the only one doing this, which is never enough for part of this Chamber; the Minister of Defence did so last week. Why? Because Articles 4 and 5 may have consequences for us as an ally. So it justifies NATO taking action in this regard. The Netherlands must put its energy into that. That's also the only position we have left. That is why I call on the Dutch Government to continue to strive for unanimity and to urge the Turks to come up with justifications. If they do not, a form of disapproval will have to be sought. I believe that the Secretary-General of NATO could also be a little more firm; he has now referred to the legitimate security concerns, but I do not think that this is the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u56	Does Mr Ten Broeke think it would be conceivable that the Turkish side would see the absence of a conviction if it were silently squeezing its eyes? Would it not be more necessary than ever not to say: we regret that there is still no hard evidence that the appeal to self-defense legitimizes and we are doing our best to get that evidence and so on? Would he like to comment on how that can be perceived on the Turkish side? In fact, I think it could indeed be seen as a free pass that might go a little further for this raid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u57	Those who heard yesterday's speech by the Turkish President, I think Mr De Roon referred to it when he spoke of a 'Turkish slapper' and explained exactly what to mean by that. Indeed, the answer has already been heard. But let's just go back in history. The Turks have not shown in the past five years that, if you put them directly under severe pressure in public, it will lead to a change in their position. If, in an alliance, which they made their own statements about yesterday and which I am far removed from myself, you skip all the steps and immediately begin to condemn.... I know that a large part of this Chamber does nothing more than wave the finger, because then we can at least go home ourselves tonight and say that we have done a great job.... there is no point in doing that. I really don't think that's a good idea. I would like to achieve an effect, I would like to maximise the leverage, the influence we can exert within an alliance. This means that we must first put pressure on the Turks to comply with Article 51 in order to provide justification. Then we cannot skip that step, because then you give the Turks an argument to stop doing it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u58	I do not like the fact that Mr Ten Broeke talks about a view of part of this Chamber, 'waving his finger so that we can go home quietly', while at least my questions, and I believe some of my colleagues, are motivated by a genuine concern about how the Turkish side can interpret the absence of a conviction. To be honest, I'm not in any use of that. He may think about it as he pleases, but I am trying to conduct the debate with normal questions to Mr Ten Broeke, who can normally answer that as far as I am concerned. I am afraid that the absence of a conviction is in the hands of the Turkish side, after four weeks in which we say: yes, those proofs must come and if they do not come, yes, then we are going to condemn them, but when they have to come we are not going to give a ruling. And I have asked Mr Ten Broeke to respond normally, in a substantive way. Again, there is no reason to suspect the counters of such questions and to say that they only do so to appease their own consciences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u59	If I had thought of Mr Van Ojik, I would have mentioned him. But I'll mention man and horse here. I said "part of the room." You gave me the opportunity to explain why I think that these steps should be taken and why a conviction is already working counter-productive, as requested by part of this Chamber, and is also a little bit ridiculous in my view. If, at the same time, you insist on this by a number of Members of this Chamber, and they insisted on it years ago, for example, you do not want to maintain your bilateral relations, if you think that the Turks should be kicked out of NATO today, if you think that we should not have an ambassador at all, not in recent years. If, like the PVV, you have already asked six times for the ambassador's departure, and at the same time it is almost schizophrenic here again demands that we send a message that we are putting pressure on the Turks. Putting pressure on the Turks when you're not prepared to bomb in the coalition against ISIS. If you are not prepared to do so, if you are using every debate here to criticize the Americans and at the same time believe that these are the groups, that these are the countries that should call the Turks to order, yes, I find that ridiculous. You can be assured that this is a very serious contribution, and I would like to see that serious consequence drawn by those Members of the Chamber who are asking for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u60	I take Mr Ten Broeke very seriously. As a Liberal and a Democrat, I assume that he also attaches importance to differences of opinion and also to differences of opinion on how to grow towards a solution. I can see that, a few weeks ago, where the Foreign Minister threatened to legitimize the attack, the attitude is critical. I'm glad. I appreciate that, too. Just, uh, let's get back to the heart of the matter. The Dutch government has asked for restraint on several occasions in all kinds of gremia, but they continue. She asked for proof, but there isn't. And, perhaps even more importantly, the fight against jihadism has weakened. In fact, we're working with jihadists. Last time I asked Mr Mulder of the VVD: do you wish to condemn this? He didn't want that back then. He didn't want to make up for it either. Is the VVD Group now ready to condemn this invasion by the Turks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u61	I don't mind rejecting that military action. In my view, Mr Mulder himself referred to this in that debate, which I was not in a position to attend. I just explained at what points I don't approve of this military action. If that's what you want to see as a conviction, as far as I'm concerned, that's fine. The point I'm concerned with is that it'll be pushed through in one go. This is quite typical of the way in which we sometimes try to conduct politics with each other, at least in foreign politics. It goes on to ask the government to condemn or condemn it. It should do so when NATO has not called enough for justification, the Netherlands stood alone and we do not maintain a bilateral relationship at the highest level. That call comes from parties such as yours - let me be quite honest with you - who are not prepared to take military responsibility in Syria or Iraq at the same time. As a result, you do not contribute to the coalition and do not contribute to Kurds who go back to the cities where they were displaced by ISIS. These parties now only focus on how we can discipline the behaviour of the Turks. In order to discipline the Turks, it is necessary for all allies to speak together. Not only do the Turks not let themselves be told by the Netherlands, they did show that last year, but they certainly do not allow themselves to be told in the situation in which the Netherlands is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u62	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u63	I'm sorry. The tone, the way in, the arguments that are dragged in: I just find it a pity. If Mr Ten Broeke finds out with me, and he does so, that there is no basis for this invasion, I am simply very sorry that he takes our position here as unrealistic. That is what Mr Ten Broeke is doing, who has indeed supported an illegal war in Iraq and now sees what a mess it is in Syria, but who also knows that the Kurds have fought alongside the Americans as an ally. Wherever your politics are, whether you're in favour of an illegal invasion or not, you know they're the ones fighting against ISIS. The only thing that I think should happen is that we are obviously disagreeing on this, and that at some point governments must stand up and say: this is not possible, not even international law; we are not getting anywhere with it, the only thing that is happening is more war and even more breeding ground for jihadism. Then we strongly disagree on that. But you don't have to use that tone. You don't have to put parties away either. You have your opinion and your politics, we have ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u64	Parties are wearing very big pants here to criticize parties who support this government, for example, or who support the coalition deployment over Iraq or in Syria, because it would be an illegal war, which is not the case. In Iraq, we're invited. In Syria, we are making use of Article 51, which cannot be denied. It is striking to see that these parties are taken as their own measure, suddenly pressing for moderation of the tone. I'd say get used to it. Indeed, I am sorry that you want to be highly condemned here by the Dutch Government of Turkey, when you are not prepared to free Kurds in Iraq by means of the military action we have taken there. The Kurds in Iraq, whether it was in Tikrit or in Mosul, we soon talk about about 170,000 people, thanks to the efforts of the Netherlands, among others. They don't owe it to the SP, who didn't support it. I also mention the Kurds in cities like Kobani, in 2014. There are a lot of cities where the Kurds have now returned. They have done so by their own efforts, but also by coalition commitment. You are consistently undermining the coalition's commitment to this type of debate. You are consistently undermining those parties that wish to support this, because they would be blindly chasing an American invasion. At the same time, you want these parties to call Turkey back to account. It can't be together. In that sense, I do insist on realism. But you're not used to being spoken back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u65	That is why Mrs Karabulut is now taking the floor, even if she was through her questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I love the debate. Believe it or not, I think it is wonderful that Mr Ten Broeke contradicts me. Indeed, we have never been in favour of the permanent war that has provided a breeding ground for terrorism and from which ISIS originated. The Kurds fought mostly themselves. But now, unfortunately, I have to say that Mr Ten Broeke is currently on the side of the Turkish aggressor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u67	I would suggest that we respond briefly, but not to provoke, because then she will have the opportunity to react again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u68	The last remark could at least be qualified as entrapment. But let me put it this way: I don't know what Mrs Karabulut's message is to Kurds in cities like Kobani, Al-Hasakah at the end of 2015, Manbij 2016, Al-Hou with 4,000 Kurds, Tal Hamis, Al-Shadadi, Kamishli: all Kurdish cities where, thanks to the coalition, Kurds have been able to return. Thanks also to their incredible own efforts, which I have praised here more than once. You should be aware that the VVD was the first party to advocate arms support for the Kurds, for example, when no one here dared. But you are against arms support, against the coalition commitment, but you are at the forefront of this to invite the Dutch Government, which does not already maintain a bilateral relationship at the highest level, to condemn the Turks here today. I have condemned the Turkish invasion of Afrin here, but I can easily do that. But ultimately it's about the effect that's being achieved. I would like to see the effect achieved that the Turks are indeed showing a different behavior. I think there is only one thing that is effective, and that is that NATO is the only platform where we can still do so in common. That is what I am calling for and what other parties are doing. I think that's a sensible line. I think the rest is cheap. It's a motion on paper and then we can go home and not much will change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr Ten Broeke is clearly in a tight spot. The Kurds want nothing more than to stop this attack at the moment. That's what they're screaming at. Mr Ten Broeke does not want to call on his own government to do so. He shows solidarity with the Kurds, but at the moment his actions are not at all on the side of the Kurds. That's just very unfortunate. Of course I have already praised him, that is how honest I am, about the critical attitude that is there. But it doesn't happen all by itself, as it turns out today. Mr Ten Broeke has a great deal of difficulty, and I understand that, with the fact that he is probably going to vote against a motion that will allow our government to work in NATO, which is a clear condemnation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr Ten Broeke, you may respond, but no longer provoke Mrs Karabulut. There are other colleagues who would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u71	I just want to answer the question, and I don't think that's entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u72	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u73	Maybe we should go over the definitions in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u74	Well, well, well, calm down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u75	If Mrs Karabulut says that the government can work with a unilateral condemnation, then my view is that NATO cannot do anything about it. In fact, we are already alone in NATO. At the moment when you keep shouting one-sidedly and alone in NATO, other countries will sit back as far as they are not already doing so and we will achieve nothing, except that we have tabled a fine motion here today. I do think that's cheap. Then I would rather try to call on the government to achieve this unanimity within NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u76	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u77	There is no such unanimity at the moment. We are currently the only country that is trying to appeal to the Turks on grounds of justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u78	Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u79	I'm going to try to get the debate back to a bit more business-like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u80	And a little quiet, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u81	Without us beating each other up with all kinds of you-boxes on a subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u82	It's only 12:00. We've got to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u83	Exactly. That is why I have the following question to ask Mr Ten Broeke. He would like to give the Turks the opportunity, and also insist, to come up with those justifications for their attack.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u84	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u85	So when you say that, you assume they have those justifications. Because if they don't have them, you don't have to insist. If they already have them, they had them on January 20, but they didn't come up with them. They haven't come up with that in four weeks. So to what do you reasonably expect that there are justifications and that the Turks will come up with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u86	I have just indicated, in the text I said, that I have doubts about those justifications. But the point is: I can express that doubt, about justification, about proportionality. We will have to press until they feel sufficiently affectionate to provide that evidence. Of course, that is not an open-ended arrangement. That's not endless. But at the moment when the Netherlands is the only one insisting, I think our position is very weak. If the Netherlands cannot even send that message through an ambassador at bilateral level, then we have to take that reality into account. Or is this part of the Chamber simply ignoring it, because it is imperative that today the government be saddled with a conviction with which it cannot do anything at all after that? Then it has indeed become theoretical what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u87	It is clear, of course, that only a condemnation by the Netherlands will not stop the Turks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u89	But the absence of a conviction is an encouragement for them to continue, to pronounce even the next threat towards Manbij, and not in covert terms but crystal clear. Then you can't say, "We have to give them some more time." For me, the question remains, and I have not yet heard an answer to it, how long do you intend to go on doing so? Until Afrin is completely destroyed? When are we gonna stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u90	First of all, let me say that it is a good thing that Mr De Roon himself has already indicated that a unilateral condemnation on the part of the Dutch side makes no sense. That's realism. I assume that will be reflected in his vote on the motion tabled by Mrs Karabulut. That's one. Two: I also said that it cannot be endless. I can't put a time limit on that. I'm not on the board. That's not my job either. I'm saying it can't be endless. I say that those justifications should be provided. If that is not the case, I have just said that the Netherlands will have to change its direction. Then we will have to insist within NATO, and we must also find supporters for this, and we are sitting there with 28 countries on a conviction. Then we come into new territory; we haven't been there before. I am therefore looking at the Secretary-General of NATO, Mr Stoltenberg, who, two weeks ago, criticized him, who pointed out the justifications that Turkey might have but did not draw a conclusion to them. I don't see him operating or barely operating to realize a unit within NATO...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u92	... to arrive at a conviction or other behavior of the Turks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u93	I am far from saying that the motions before us do not really have any meaning. They have meaning, of course, because a clear signal is being sent out. In doing so, the Turks are gradually beginning to realize that their actions are not just tolerated, pruned, that we act as if nothing is going on and that we are all going to let it happen. That signal needs to be sent out, and you don't have to wait weeks or months. That must be done now. Then, of course, our government must also work to get more supporters to do so. If you are the first one to send out a signal, it actually does! Then those others will be exposed because they won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u94	Of course, more supporters must be found, but if the Netherlands is not already able to find supporters, if NATO countries are already leaning back, now that they already suspect that the Netherlands is fighting a bilateral battle that has nothing to do with this, I have just said: I am not prepared to multilateralise a bilateral conflict between the Netherlands and Ankara here, and we are doing so in this way, and we are weakening the Dutch position. We may also enhance our self-image, but we are weakening our position. Those who want to strengthen the position of the Netherlands do not now insist on a unilateral condemnation that makes the Netherlands stand even more isolated and offers the Turks the comfort I do not want to give them. On behalf of the VVD, I have condemned, rejected, as you will call it, and I urge the government, even more strongly, to find those justifications together with the Secretary-General. If that is not the case, I cannot put a time limit on that. We can, I hope, come to the conclusion that the Turks deserve criticism in the form of disapproval or condemnation. That's the way, and everything else is waving fingers. Mr. Chairman. I noticed you've been running through my time while I was answering one more question. Finally, I would like to talk about the chemical attacks, which we have unfortunately had to see again. Two in Douma, Ghouta and one in Idlib. I firmly believe that this is the result of leaving the Americans in 2013 from the red line, which they themselves drew. This has created a vacuum, and you could say that the red army has filled it up along with some green males. The Russians now decide what happens there; not Washington, Geneva or New York, but unfortunately Moscow, Tehran and Ankara. That is, I fear, the new world order, and that restricts our role to that of a medic on a battlefield that is being waged by others: a number of authoritarian states that are failing to comply with our humanitarian imperatives. That is the reality we are dealing with. I would like, following Mr Sjoerdsma's example, to urge that, with regard to the verification mechanism, we should be ashamed that the Russians first took this out here in the OPCW and then in the Security Council, by pointing to those two organisations, trying to support the French initiative. I also made an alternative to this two years ago, to which I would like to draw your attention. I do not have enough time to go into this in detail, but I have argued in favour of it before. One of your predecessors, Mr Timmermans, indicated that he saw that this could perhaps be raised in the Security Council. In this debate, I would once again urge you to look at this French initiative. I have tabled an amendment on this, but it is well known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to wish the Minister success and also a little strength in her double task in the coming weeks. With the debate on whether or not to condemn the Turkish invasion of Afrin, we have not so far made much progress, I must say. We asked oral questions on this almost four weeks ago. Then the government said: we want proof but we don't have it yet, we have to wait for it. That was at the AO RBZ, about two weeks ago, of course. And now we stand here, three and a half weeks later, again and try to trump each other who knows best how to get the Turks back to Turkey. I must admit that I do not know exactly either, but I do know that the violence in Afrin is continuing at least because of the Turkish army. So not condemning it and trying to operate very carefully and carefully has in any case had no effect on the actions of the Turks in Afrin. I say that with great regret. I think it would be good to condemn the actions of the Turkish Government. I hope that I have just made it clear in interruptions why I think so. I think that failure to condemn the Turkish Government is, after all, a form of legitimation. Of course, I repeat to Mr Ten Broeke: if we can do this together with our NATO counterparts, the more, the better. I do not think we are discussing this with each other. Mr. Chairman. I would like to use the remaining half of my speaking time to present the Minister with a thought and a statement, because I think that the Turkish invasion in Afrin is actually a symptom of a much bigger problem: the problem of a total deadlock in the situation in Syria. I think we all find that to some extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u97	Mr Van Ojik says that we are not in a debate about what the right technique, the right method, is the right approach. I think that's the heart of this debate for weeks. In the light of the fact that the government is already on its own, may I ask the former diplomat Van Ojik why he thinks that a conviction by the Dutch government is now more effective? Why does that strike the other 27 NATO partners earlier to go along with it if the Turks have not yet provided the grounds for justice? Why do you think that's more effective than trying to take it one step at a time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u98	Maybe I should clear up a misunderstanding. I did not mean to say that we should not debate this. That's exactly what I think. I just don't mind saying that at least I don't have the wisdom. I don't think we have any of that. It's complicated. I have noted, however, that our strategy so far, which has been the same for three and a half or four weeks, has not produced any results in terms of a more cautious attitude by the Turkish army in Afrin. That's a fact. We agree on that. What we've done so far hasn't worked. Then the question is: could it be that, let me say it carefully, the NATO allies are now prisoners of each other, because we do not want to say that the lack of evidence for a legitimate appeal to Article 51 is really not acceptable to us? So what do we do? We say they have to come up with proof. Mr Ten Broeke does that. Actually, we all do that a little bit. The cabinet also does that. And we regret the Turks don't. The minister said it in the VAO. We're not happy about that at all, but we'll just wait for them to do it. In reply to Mr Ten Broeke's question, I think that countries like the Netherlands might have to step out and say: it has taken us long enough. What happens then, I do not know, nor do I know Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u99	No one has the wisdom in rent, but we do have to take a stand. The debate forces us to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u100	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u101	I think you should take it one step at a time. I believe that the position of the Netherlands, precisely because we are not represented bilaterally at the highest level, is, if possible, even weaker and can also be undermined if we adopt a unique one-sided position. Mr Van Ojik says that the other has not yet worked. No, the other one hasn't worked yet. Therefore, a number of parties in this Chamber are in favour of increasing the pressure on the Turks now and of increasing NATO involvement there. The Dutch government has been doing this since last week. The Dutch Minister of Defence has been doing this since last week. I do not think that we have a very long period of time behind us. My question to Mr Van Ojik is therefore the following. We can now wave with a one-sided conviction. That will be before us later with the Karabulut motion. She is also the applicant for this debate. But does Mr Van Ojik not think that the Dutch Government is working very wisely by increasing the pressure within NATO, within its own circle, by finishing Article 51 and then saying: friends, we did not marry each other in an alliance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u102	Then it's almost a matter of timing. When is the right time? When we debated this for the first time, I think that was about three weeks ago, I went along with the reasoning of the cabinet and the minister at the time. He said: we insist on providing support and evidence, and we are prepared to wait for that. But by continuing to do so endlessly, you are making that demand that you make to the Turks less and less credible. Maybe I just said that. We are now three debates in this Chamber, two NATO Councils and one RBZ, and the evidence is not coming. If at some point we do not proceed with that condemnation, I am therefore concerned that this will ultimately jeopardise our credibility towards the Turkish Government. That is perhaps the best answer to Mr Ten Broeke's question. That is my sincere concern. If there is such a motion, my group will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u103	The credibility towards the Turks is already not very high. They can very easily point out that we also do not have bilateral contact at the highest level at the moment. And the Netherlands is already in a unique position. Let us leave aside the fact that the Turks do not change their behavior, but then we must at least find supporters. I don't think that's gonna work at the moment. Does Mr Van Ojik think it would be effective if we were to take the lead today and send this Minister and her colleague in the defence sector away with 'we already condemn and we ask the other 27 to do the same'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u104	Perhaps it reassures Mr Ten Broeke that I have every confidence that if we in the Chamber make a statement and tell the cabinet that it should condemn this Turkish invasion of Afrin, the Minister has enough diplomatic skills to do so in the way she thinks appropriate at the time. She can do so in the informal RBZ or in all kinds of bilateral consultations with NATO counterparts. To be quite honest, I think that is a question of diplomacy, which you have just mentioned. We are giving the political guidelines, so to speak. I feel comfortable right now, after so many weeks, saying that this raid should be condemned by this cabinet. Let me make that very clear once again. Then I have no problem with the implementation of this motion, because that is what you are actually asking for to be done by the cabinet in a way that keeps the cabinet within the limits of diplomacy and effectiveness. That is what Mr Ten Broeke is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u105	The last question, Mr. Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u106	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Now the monkey comes out a little bit. That is always a dangerous statement in debates on Turkey; I am looking at Mr De Roon. But the monkey is getting a bit out of hand now, because when I ask the former diplomat Van Ojik whether there is any point in putting the government here with a unilateral condemnation, he runs a little away from the responsibility: what the government then does with the other 28, he likes to leave to the diplomatic skills of this minister. That is at the heart of the accusation that I have just made part of the Chamber. Then it's a little cheap, because in the end we all want the effect to be achieved. I admit that up to now the Turks have not been impressed by the resistance of the Netherlands or even by the Americans, who can face them militarily. But if I limit it to "can we at least find the allies by our side?', Mr Van Ojik says: yes, let's do that motion anyway, and then let's leave it to Mrs Kaag about how she does it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u107	No, that was a nice attempt by Mr Ten Broeke, but I am not running away from it. I'll make a distinction. On the one hand, there is the political responsibility and the political statement that we can make here as a Chamber. You asked me how I was in that. I have answered that very clearly. The next point is that and how the cabinet executes that motion. Not everyone can see that Mr Ten Broeke is now making a certain gesture, but, like any motion, I would like to leave the cabinet the room to carry out the motion in a manner that does not mean that the cabinet is carrying out the motion but how it is carrying out the motion that is as effective as possible. Of course, this includes getting other allies in favour of that position. So I'm not running away from anything; on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u108	I think that we in the Chamber are all looking for ways of making the best and strongest position as the Netherlands. I understand that there are several sides, and I understand that Mr Van Ojik says that he would like to make the political statement that we condemn this. But wouldn't it be better if the Chamber also left it to the Chamber to condemn something and then didn't immediately call out what the Cabinet should do? I believe that the motion announced by Mrs Karabulut suggests that the cabinet should now condemn and then look at it. So you get the situation that our minister in NATO is in the "condemn" box and has to yell at the others: hey, come and join me in the business. If you don't give that to me yet, but you give the order to try to get a joint conviction, you're not in your business yet, but you could take a colleague in the arm and maybe walk into that class together. I'd be the second one myself. But would a motion or an appeal from the Chamber with which the Chamber condemns it not be better than a motion that says: the Chamber calls on the Cabinet to condemn it unilaterally immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u109	I haven't seen any motions yet. Anyway, that comes in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u110	Mr President, I understand that this is difficult, but we are talking about calls from the Chamber. And whether that's a motion or a call, that has to prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u111	It's not a motion. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u112	It is indeed a hypothetical debate for the moment on a hypothetical motion that may be forthcoming. But Mr Ten Broeke asked: if such a motion were to be tabled, how would you stand up? I wanted to give a clear answer to that. Mr Van Helvert asks whether we should be in that business and say to the others 'just join us' or that we should say 'come, we are all going to be in that business'. That's actually what Mr Van Helvert says, isn't it? I repeat what I just said. That's the second one we've done so far. The Dutch Government has taken the lead in saying in international consultation: should we not be tougher on Turkey? I have found that it has not worked so far. Mr Van Helvert asked for weeks ago, at that time, Minister Zijlstra: how long will you be used as a figurehead of the Turkish Government? I've never used words like that. Those seem to me... Well, I don't have to comment on that right now. I am genuinely looking for this, which is why I just got a little angry with Mr Ten Broeke about what is the most effective way to stop the violence in Afrin. We all are. We should not give each other false motives on that point. The matter is far too serious for that. Mr Van Helvert asks me: wouldn't one work better than the other? I don't think so. I tried to back that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u113	You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u114	In my introduction I just tried to say, and that's why it took a little while, that I don't give anyone anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u115	That's why you should never make an introduction to an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u116	But you say we've been trying to do that for a while now. In my view, we have tried it too short, or perhaps almost not at all, in terms of implementation. That was also our criticism in the first debates. We said: go much more actively towards NATO, towards the EU or towards any platform to get people to at least condemn the fact that there is no evidence. I don't think that's happened yet. I don't have that clue yet. My question to Mr Van Ojik is next. Could he agree if we jointly called on the cabinet to take that attitude very actively? Could he support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u117	That is what we will have to see in the debate. It is also a little dependent on the Minister's answer, if we ever get to her term, but I'm sure we will. We need to look at that quietly, as far as I'm concerned. It's no reason to say now: I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u118	We have a second deadline for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u119	But I'll establish... I can see that the cabinet has tried a number of things in the past few weeks. In that sense, I may be less critical than coalition party CDA. I'm just saying it hasn't worked so far, so we need to think about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u120	Thank you. I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u121	Oh, no! I'm just getting started, Madam President. I see here: 1 minute and 46 seconds. Well, I really do need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u122	You're absolutely right. But I saw you clear your papers. You will have the opportunity to finish your story. You're entitled to that. But before you go any further, here's what I'm gonna say. If I had known how long the interruptions would be, I wouldn't have allowed four questions. And it's the chairman who's gonna talk about that. I'll give you that now. It also means that in the next term, the second, there will be far less interruptions than has been the case so far. The four minutes are intended to give your own opinion, vision or contribution. Interrupts are short. That's in the Rules of Procedure. Then it is a question or a brief remark. If everyone starts with an analysis of the whole world and ends with a question that I think... Okay, I'm just saying. I'll give it to you guys so you know what's gonna happen next. Don't you dare say anything now, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u123	Yes, I do, but I thought I'd settle down for a moment. I was just ready for the second part of my story, in which I invite the Minister to reflect on the statement that the Turkish invasion in Afrin is actually the symptom of a much wider deadlock in Syria. I believe that at the moment we need to think about how, as the Netherlands and the EU, we can use the very limited instruments of influence we have. Can we come to a cease-fire? Colleagues have already mentioned this. How can we stop the violence in Afrin, but also in Idlib and East Ghouta? We've seen the horrible footage on the news again, I believe last Friday. It is about humanitarian access and effective humanitarian support. It is about restoring the most basic human rights in prisons, where thousands of people are systematically tortured. It is, of course, also about the longer term of the political transition. At the moment, I see the Turkish invasion of Afrin as a symptom of that impasse. I would ask the Minister to answer that question. I see it as a symptom of the fact that countries such as Russia, Iran and Turkey are now serving Syria. We do say that Assad has come out of battle as a winner, but Assad is a puppet, a strompet, of very great powers. And we don't belong to that list of very great powers right now. I want us to talk about this as soon as possible, rather than just the question of whether we should condemn Turkey. We have to do that, too, but there is a much bigger problem here. I ask the Minister to reaffirm this urgency within the EU, the UN Security Council and NATO and to come up with a joint plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u124	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now turn to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u125	Madam President. The name "Operation Olive branch" sounds very sweet, but what's going on is just raw violence, which has been going on for a long time. The official goal is to combat terrorist groups in Syria. According to Turkey, rocket attacks from the Afrin region would justify self-defense, but from everything else, it seems that Turkey is doing much more to reduce the Kurds, while the YPG in Syria is really a different group than the PKK. In the opinion of the SGP, the Kurds in Syria deserve the clear support of the Netherlands, the European Union and the United Nations. Mr. Chairman. The SGP believes that Turkey's actions in the Operation Olive branch should be rejected, because the possibilities offered to the Turkish authorities to indicate why they believe that this meets the criteria of the UN Charter have not produced the information that the Netherlands and the international community say: yes, that is convincing evidence. My concern is that the situation is gradually turning around. There is, as it were, a licence to continue as long as there is a discussion as to whether there are any other documents or evidence to be found, which are satisfactory and convincing. So I also share the inconvenience that Mr Van Ojik and others have put forward, because when will we run out of patience? How long can it go on like this? Isn't it going to be a little "who doesn't agree"? That, I think, is the inconvenience that lives widely in the Chamber and that we noticed earlier on the government's side. We know that this has led to a strengthening of NATO and international efforts to clarify this quickly. But it still isn't there until now. That is why the key question for me is: when is the patience exhausted? My next key question is what are the consequences of the offensive for Syria. If you look at how it is being discussed within the European Union and within the UN Security Council, you are rightly concerned about the political impact of the operation on the relations of power in Syria and the conduct of the peace talks. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's reflection on the political consequences of this operation. Of course we are talking about the humanitarian situation. All sides have rightly expressed concerns about the increase in the number of refugees and the difficulty of providing assistance. From human rights organisations, from those involved in the area, from the churches and from all sides the plea was made not to leave those people alone in this. Fortunately, I see a lot of humanitarian efforts, but I would like to put the following question to the Minister. Do you see any opportunities to further strengthen humanitarian efforts? Finally. Of course, the Turkish operation also has consequences outside Syria. How are the discussions going in NATO itself? Is Turkey's participation in these discussions and NATO involvement not in fact automatically leading the way of dialogue? Shouldn't there be a moment of: up to now and no further? I've been over that for a while. In addition, we are concerned about the effects in the wider region. Think also of Iranian influence. We saw the necessary threat of Iranian influence in and outside Syria. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. Mr President, that was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u126	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I will go to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make a number of comments on the tensions between the allies Turkey and America and the lack of evidence from Turkey to claim the right of self-protection. Does the support given by Turkey to the opposition groups that launched the attack in Afrin not overlap with the Dutch support? We have heard the following statement from the Turkish Foreign Minister: relations between Turkey and the United States are at a critical stage. That is because Turkey has shown its great ambition not only to attack Afrin, but also to go beyond Afrin towards the east, towards Manbij, towards the Euphrates and even further to the Iraqi border. It looks like it's gonna be an explosion or a confrontation with our ally America, because in Manbij are the Americans. The Americans have said that if you attack us, we will launch the counterattack. Looks like two allies are really gonna be facing each other here. What does the Minister think of this attitude by Turkey, which warns even the Americans to attack? Let us return to the whole debate we have had before. The former Foreign Minister has previously indicated that there would be grounds, and I am not yet talking about proof for the fact that Turkey is claiming Article 51, the right to self-protection, self-defense. I have never been able to understand those grounds of the former Foreign Minister. There would be undisputed evidence of attacks and attacks. It has not become clear what attacks are involved. Maybe this minister can report it. Are those attacks within Turkey? Are those attacks from Afrin, from Syria to Turkey? Are those attacks by the PKK? Or are those YPG attacks? Have those been Al-Qaeda attacks? We've all heard that. There have already been attacks by Al-Qaeda in Ankara. But I would still like to hear from this cabinet what grounds there would be for not getting a conviction at least yet. Then there's the evidence. If we talk about this much longer, I fear we won't have to talk about that evidence anymore and that Afrin has fallen, so the Turks have taken Afrin. Then we won't have to wait for that evidence anymore. So for me, it's crucial that we get that evidence. What evidence are there from Turkey to make the right to Article 51 speak of the right to self-protection? Doesn't the Minister agree that these proofs really need to get there soon? Should it not find support within NATO Member States for a deadline towards the Turks in order to obtain that evidence? Otherwise, you won't have to. Mr. Chairman. Then when it comes to the other groups supported by Turkey. The international press reports that the Turks are using Hayat Tahrir al-Sham. That's an Al-Qaeda-related organization that they would deploy with the Free Syrian Army in the attack in Afrin. If that is the case, as an ally of Turkey, we must distance ourselves from it. It cannot be that our ally Turkey is using Al-Qaeda-like groups to attack Afrin. How does the Minister feel about that? I also asked a few times whether research has been carried out on whether militias from the Netherlands are being paid to participate in the battle in Afrin. We still support the moderate opposition so far, so I would like to hear the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. I will come forward with a motion in the second term to call on the government to support within the Security Council a resolution which states that ISIS fighters have committed genocide. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is that Turkey must now really put the facts on the table in order to check whether Article 51 is actually being properly invoked. I hope that the Minister really wants to pick up that signal and seek support for that plea within NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u128	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Turkey has invaded Syria with bombs, tanks, artillery, fighter planes and an army of jihadists without consulting NATO allies in advance and without consulting with allies in the fight against ISIS. Both involve our own country. We have discussed in general that the Minister has not yet taken a position on this, as has NATO, the EU and the UN. Turkey has called for Article 51 to be self-defense. Evidence that this self-defense has justifications is lacking so far. I was right to say that I have doubts about those grounds. And understand me: the CDA understands Turkey's difficult position. It's easy for us to talk, because we live a little further away. Turkey is right next door. But that's exactly why you're a member of an alliance and at times like that, you consult. If you rely on Article 51, you will also provide evidence. You're not turning it around. You're not going to invade first and then say to your allies: show me I'm not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u130	I would like to brief Mr Van Helvert on what he said during the previous discussion on this matter, and ask him how he looks back on it now and where that leads. One of his final questions was: "When will the Minister set a limit: if I have no proof, then I will condemn an invasion?" Of course there has to be proof, but I think he is now much more lenient, when I would say: since that consultation nothing has actually happened, he might have to step in and join the choir that says that there really should be a conviction now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u131	Mr President, I will not say: I have just begun. Then you'd think it wasn't an answer to the interruption and it's going away from my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u132	No, don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u133	So I'll answer it. There's still no proof. I think you can expect a NATO ally to provide evidence if he uses Article 51. I have also said to the Minister in the debate from which you are quoting: I understand perfectly well that you cannot just condemn that attack by Turkey without proof, but you can condemn that a NATO ally does so without providing evidence, and I think we should do so. In response to this interruption, I think we have had a very nice discussion here too. Everyone is trying to figure out how to put the government in its power as best we can so that she can do this now. Condemning an ally who does this without proof can actually be done immediately. This does not put the government in a booth and does not say: you must and will now condemn that whole raid. We do, by the way, but I think almost everyone here in the Chamber does. You're not putting the government in that booth yet. However, you will put the government to work immediately, tomorrow, to find support for a conviction within NATO, the EU or any other platform because we as allies do not do this to each other. Because I don't think it's possible that we still don't have any proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u134	I'm not gonna you-bake and say nothing about using the word limit, et cetera. The interpretation of those words by Mr Van Helvert was that we cannot wait endlessly for that evidence. He's gonna agree to that now, too. Can he agree with me that now is the time when a conviction is in place, because that evidence is not yet there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u135	Yeah, I think so. That is why I shall propose the following. I think, also in view of the fact that Mr Van Ojik said that as a Chamber we should want something, that I am going to table a motion on that in the second instance. I believe that the Chamber should say something about this. That's what I'm talking about. As far as I'm concerned, that limit may be the same tomorrow. When is the vote on the motion? It'll be Tuesday. So that limit is Tuesday. However, the Minister is present, so the Minister can actually get to work tomorrow. Where Minister Zijlstra said in the AO that he didn't condemn anything until he had proof, we could tell the cabinet that we are already, tomorrow, going to seek support for the fact that we condemn the absence of evidence. That's what turns it around. Minister Zijlstra said we don't condemn anything until we have proof. Now the cabinet could say, if we call for it, that we are going to seek support for condemning it now, until it comes to proof that we are wrong. Then the burden of proof lies with Turkey and not with the Netherlands. After all, Turkey started with bombs, tanks and an army of jihadists and not the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mr. Chairman. In the letter sent by the Minister, the Minister himself mentioned a number of conditions that Turkey should fulfil. However, I would like to ask the Minister what she is looking at. The Minister said in the letter to the Chamber that this invasion of Turkey should not complicate the fight against ISIS. He will. A Kurd can only fight in one place at a time: either on the front against ISIS, or on the front against Turkey. This therefore complicates the fight against ISIS. What consequences do we have? Our army is also fighting ISIS right now. The second condition laid down by the Minister himself is that this should not lead to new refugees. In any case, 15,000 refugees have already been counted. What does the Minister say now? Another condition of the Minister: cultural heritage must be preserved. We see that a 3,000 year old Aramean temple is simply destroyed. Isn't that a violation of humanitarian war law? Another point I would like to make to the Minister is that Macron says that this raid should not be an excuse for a permanent occupation of Syria. We can't tell yet if that's true, but we do know that Erdogan says to his own supporters that he's doing this to give Afrin back to the original residents. This means that there must be a cleansing of the Kurds who live there now. Those are his own words to his own supporters. How does the Minister view these words from Mr Erdogan? You can expect NATO allies to provide evidence. That is actually what I was able to say in an interruption. So I shall now turn to the questions I still have for the Minister. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that Turkey should not be able to go about its business indefinitely, as it is now? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that you can indeed expect a NATO ally to provide evidence of this, if it uses Article 51, and that you should not turn it around? How does the Minister appreciate the fact that Turkey is violating the Dutch conditions? It complicates the fight against ISIS, there are additional refugees and cultural heritage is being violated. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that a condemnation of the Netherlands on its own now, because we no longer have a relationship with Turkey, makes no sense? What is the Minister going to do to achieve a joint conviction in NATO or the EU as long as Turkey does not provide justification for a self-defense raid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u138	I would just like to turn to Mr Van Helvert's question as to whether the Minister agrees with the CDA group that there is no point in a conviction on our own. Has Mr Van Helvert changed his mind on this point since the AO RBZ? More than anyone else in the Chamber he was the one who asked: how long on earth does the minister allow Erdogan to use himself as a figurehead for the raid in Afrin? Now he seems to have changed his mind. That's fine, because I change my mind so often, but it's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u139	I still think it is a bad thing that the Dutch Government spoke with such understanding and so mildly about Turkey and that there were grounds for which there was no evidence. You saw Erdogan using our minister's photo and his words and said, "Look, students, you've all been arrested for 70,000, but our good old friend Minister Zijlstra thinks I'm doing well, look, 12 doctors who were against the war, I did arrest you because you were critical of the war, but our old friend Zijlstra thinks I'm doing well." That's how he passed everywhere. I thought that was a very bad picture, and I still think it is. After the AO, a few things happened. I spoke to Zijlstra: you are improving those relations with Turkey, get on with it. After that, the relationships deteriorated dramatically. At least at the highest level, we don't really have a relationship anymore. At the moment when we show all understanding while we are improving the relationship and then when that relationship is gone, at once we cry out loud that we are condemning it, that makes no sense in my view. I've had that struggle, by the way. When I hear Mrs. Karabulut, Mrs. Ploumen and you, I understand what you're saying, because I have that struggle myself. I have spoken with colleagues from other countries and with colleagues from this Chamber about how best to put the government into its power. And then it's my belief that it's okay to get the government to start looking for support as long as the evidence isn't there yet, instead of sitting in the booth alone, when you're actually not in a relationship with Turkey and saying, "I don't like this," because then you're gonna get others to say: but you're already fighting with Turkey, so it makes sense that you're standing there. So that's why, but I can see the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u140	We're all dealing with that complicated trade-off. The reason for my question is whether the CDA Group or Mr Van Helvert have changed their minds. From what has happened since then, namely the recall of the ambassador, the cabinet and part of the coalition say that this has nothing to do with Afrin. That is why I am confused, since Mr Van Helvert is now arguing this as the main reason why he is now looking at it differently. In any case, in Mr Van Helvert's view, that has to do with one another. That's fine further, but that's good to know. Then we don't have to argue about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u141	When the Foreign Minister said that this had nothing to do with each other, I think I said yes, and in principle we are celebrating carnival in three days' time, but that is different in practice. I'm sure that will have nothing to do with each other in principle, but it can't be that just this political incident causes us to suddenly stop this diplomatic relationship altogether, when so many other things are happening in Turkey at the moment. It can't be that the whole thing's completely separate, can it? You watched the Minister maintain himself in it and you kept doing it. Well, we might disagree on that. I also understand that this is the direct cause, but if you decide between yourselves that you don't give each other an ambassador, the bucket must have been full, and that diplomatic incident was a drop. I asked about it. I have not yet received an answer. So maybe this minister can say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u142	If we look at how best to put the government into its power, it is now best to have a joint conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Van Helvert. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u144	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we cannot imagine in the Netherlands what it is like to live in a country that faces terror every day. But for Turkey and for the Turks, unfortunately, this is business as as asual, because Turkey has been fighting terror for 40 years, a fight against bloodthirsty terrorists. Terrorists firing missiles at cities, terrorists committing cowardly bombings in neighborhoods. Terrorists abducting people from villages. This is a fight against terrorists who have killed tens of thousands of Turkish soldiers and tens of thousands of innocent civilians. And, Mr President, let me be very clear about one thing. These cowards are not members of a workers' party but of the terrorist organization PKK. These cowards are not freedom fighters but a terrorist organization that calls itself the HDP. And they're not resistance heroes either, but terrorists who call themselves YPG, all one pot wet, the name is different, the logo is different, but the cowardly and bloodthirsty practices are the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u145	Those are very firm texts by Mr Kuzu, so I assume he has all kinds of evidence underneath which underpins his statement. Until now, Turkey itself has not been able to provide these proofs, at least not credible, so perhaps Mr Kuzu can provide those evidence to the Minister. Well, at least that's what's on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u146	I talked about attacks in villages, cities and neighborhoods. If Mr Voordewind had followed that news for 40 years, he would not have been here in The Hague at the opening of a YPG party office a year and a half ago. Those are bad practices, those are the things you say: why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u147	Mr. Chairman. That is not an answer to my question, because Mr Kuzu seems to have proved that the YPG has carried out attacks on Turkey. Look, there are attacks in Turkey, we know that, in Ankara and in other villages and cities. But he also seems to have evidence that the YPG has committed attacks that have led Turkey to eventually attack Afrin. I'd like to see those proofs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u148	That's not exactly what I said. I said, as the Foreign Minister said two and a half weeks ago here in the House of Representatives, that there are strong signals that the YPG is a PKK-related organisation. That's what I said here. I said, "a terrorist organization related to a terrorist organization." Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, the... I see Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u149	Yeah, I see him, too. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u150	In doing so, Mr Kuzu suggests that the YPG is fighting with the PKK against Turkey. He must either take back those suggestions or come up with proof that the YPG is directly responsible for attacks on Turkey, because he is now making that suggestion. We have not yet seen the evidence of Turkey. I hope that Mr Kuzu will perhaps also sign the motion that Mr Van Helvert is about to table in order to reach a verdict if these evidence is not provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u151	As far as proof is concerned, yesterday Minister Bijleveld was at the NATO summit to discuss it. If it's okay, we'll have some clarity today. But as our Foreign Minister has also pointed out here, there are clear signals, also for the Foreign Minister, including the Dutch Government, that the YPG is a PKK-related organisation. Those are the words used two and a half weeks ago here in the House of Representatives. And yes, Mr Voordewind might not like that, because if he hadn't liked it, he wouldn't have been at the opening of that YPG office here in The Hague a while ago. Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, the Secretary-General of NATO himself said it. Turkey is the NATO alliance that has dealt most of all with terrorist attacks. And Turkey has the right to resolve these security problems. To be honest, I have nothing to add to this. Unfortunately, in the House of Representatives I taste a double measure of thunderbolt. When Turkey decides to defend its borders, a debate is requested immediately, a letter must be sent immediately to the Chamber, oral questions are notified and numerous written questions are submitted. In short, the whole Chamber is in turmoil. But let's take a look at Iraq and Syria. We see that half the world has been involved in military operations in Iraq and Syria for years. That is what we think is necessary. We participate as the Netherlands itself. But if a country wants to protect its own direct borders, we say, "Hey, don't do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u152	I do not think anyone here is saying that Turkey should not protect its own borders. What we do say is that we need proof. We also say it has to be proportional. I would like to hear Mr Kuzu on that. The reports and proof that hospitals have been hit, that monuments have been hit and that humanitarian supply lines have hit, must nevertheless vote Mr Kuzu sad. He has nothing to add to the fact that Turkey is doing this, but perhaps this is. That would be awesome to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u153	I think it is a very fair question that Mr Sjoerdsma is asking here. We also believe that the actions should be proportionate. If it is right, we will also see today what the proportionality of these actions means. I would like to ask the following question. We're talking about civilian casualties. I really regret every civilian victim. Every civilian victim that falls in Syria or in northern Iraq or anywhere else, we deeply regret. But, Mr. Sjoerdsma, I've never seen civilian casualties walking around with AK-47s like that. Do you? So this is what is happening right now in Northern Syria: people, citizens, walking around with AK-47s. As far as I am concerned, these are no longer civilian casualties either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u154	Let's try not to get bogged down in this discussion. I understand very well what Mr Kuzu is saying. But if we are talking about the responsibility of a state, when we are talking about the responsibility of a democratic state, Mr Kuzu would probably like to add, then something should be expected in terms of proportionality. Mr Kuzu can show this image, but it doesn't say anything about hospitals and it doesn't say anything about humanitarian lines. I would like to ask you one more time, Madam President. I have to be brief. I would very much like Mr Kuzu to reject such attacks. That would adorn him, and it would make our Parliament as a whole stronger if he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u155	Sure. At the moment when a hospital is being attacked, when humanitarian organisations are suffering, we condemn it. At the same time, we must keep a close eye on the fact that we are not dealing with the scenes I have just shown. In that sense, therefore, I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma, but we also sometimes have to look a little further than our noses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u156	That Mr Kuzu stands up for the right to self-defense of the Turkish state, that is allowed. I would also like to argue in favour of protecting our own people. I think that is why we are here in this Chamber, and perhaps most importantly. Although DENK did not support the mission of our people towards the fight against ISIS, he did wish them a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u157	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u158	At a time when an ally, without consulting us, is fighting against a group that is fighting against ISIS together with our people, there is something to add. I would like a response from DENK to the fact that our ally Turkey is fighting against our enemy without proof of self-defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u159	We have made our views on this quite clear in the Chamber over and over again in recent times. Look, we do not support the Dutch commitment to the operation for IS. However, we certainly support other countries, which can play a role in this, in terms of helping to eliminate a terrorist organisation such as Daesh, for sure. At the same time, we have said that your enemy's enemy is not always your friend. As far as we are concerned, a terrorist organisation like the PKK must be treated in the same way as a terrorist organisation like Daesh. I belong here in the Chamber but also in public opinion too often to talk about an attack on Kurds. As far as I am concerned, nothing of this is true, and that is the continuation of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u160	I understand. We know that position. But what does DENK think about our ally Turkey going against our ally in the fight against ISIS without consultation, which makes that fight more difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u161	I understand from the Foreign Minister, two and a half hours ago, that the United Nations has been informed. As far as the United Nations and the Netherlands are concerned, insufficient evidence has been provided. In recent days, there has been a lot of international traffic to ensure that evidence is provided. If it's okay, it'll follow today. I also saw yesterday that the United States Foreign Minister had talks with Turkey's Minister for Defence and that they gave a brief joint statement saying that they are allies in the fight against terror. I interpret that as: a fight against all terrorist organisations, without making any distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u162	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mr. Chairman. We at DENK are concerned about developments in the Netherlands. We can see that distributors and hate-mongers are trying to seize the opportunity to turn groups against each other. People are attacked on the street, such as the taxi driver in Amsterdam or people on Utrecht Centraal. Mosques and civil society organisations in our country have now become the victims of attacks and vandalism. These people are also concerned about their safety. I visited an association in Rotterdam-Zuid and a mosque in The Hague, an association and a mosque where mainly Kurdish Dutch come together. Their association, their mosque were covered with pro-PKK texts and texts about Afrin. And yes, for some of the people it may be strange: PKK sympathizers who intimidate Kurds. But let me clarify this once and for all. Kurds have nothing to do with the PKK. Terrorists have everything to do with the PKK. I dare even say that Kurds are the biggest victims of the PKK, both abroad and in our country. Kurds who have nothing to do with or want to do with the PKK are being extorted, threatened or intimidated. For example, I'm talking about my own hairdresser. When I put a photo of him on social media, he got numerous threats. For example, I am talking about a candidate member of my party, who is intimidated and threatened. I'm talking about a columnist who's critical of the PKK being threatened with rape. Why can't we hear politics about these people? Why are these people forgotten and ignored by politics? We at DENK do not forget and ignore these people. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. I tabled a motion a few months ago to ban symbols and flags of terrorist groups. Unfortunately, this was not supported by the majority of the Chamber. In the meantime, the German authorities in Cologne and Leverkusen have banned demonstrations. I am considering reposing this motion and hope that the parties who voted against at the time have now come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u164	You want to make a point of order, Mr. Ten Broeke?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u165	May I make a small point of order? In his speech, our last speaker also addressed threats that would have been voiced. What I find to be a problem is that these threats have also been experienced here by colleagues, not least because the same colleague has taken the same type of action. I would like to ask Mr Kuzu whether he wishes to reflect on this or at least take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u166	We are quite sure to distance ourselves from all the threats and intimidations. We call for an end to this. But again, it has to be across the board, not specifically about one group or one person, whether it's a colleague or not, and whether it's happening in the outside world or not. In this Chamber, we have asked numerous times for a debate on events which are also taking place in our country, which are taking place here in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, I did not receive support from the majority of the Chamber when it came to threatening the people I was talking about just now and earlier today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u167	Our colleagues have been threatened by photos and images that Mr Kuzu posted on his own Facebook site, for example when it came to the vote on a motion on the Armenian genocide. There are other examples. If Mr Kuzu withdraws from that, that is certainly a start, but I would like him to leave that behind in the future. It is bad for the debate and we should keep away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u168	I'm sure I don't approve of that. The same should apply the other way around. It has been a while now, because it was in the previous period, but I quote this example because Mr Ten Broeke also gives an example from the previous period: at the time when the largest political party in the Netherlands, so to speak, is going to set DENK as a sort of land traitor, as a sort of fifth column, Mr Ten Broeke must realize that there are all kinds of threats coming our way. I do not hear Mr Ten Broeke on that. I would like us to stop being selective in this and treat everyone in the same way. Equality and justice, that's our goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u169	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-5.u170	After the suspension we start with the arrangement of work and probably a VAO we do not know for sure yet, but we will hear about this later and then we will continue with the Minister's reply.
