ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u1	Good evening. I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the budget for external trade and development cooperation. I welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the Members of the Chamber, the spokesmen on this section. Some groups have represented two spokesmen. Welcome, of course, to the Minister's official support and the same goes for colleagues with all their people. Also a warm welcome to the people in the public gallery and the people who follow the debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u2	As has been said, the budget is on the agenda. We only have the first term on the side of the Chamber tonight. I would like to be the first to give Mrs Van Weerdenburg the opportunity to speak. She speaks on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are talking about the budget for external trade and development cooperation, where more money goes to. In the coming period, a sloppy 4.5 billion a year will be transferred to the Third World. Tax money, to be understood, brought in by Dutch citizens. Despite the best intentions and the many hundreds and perhaps thousands of billions that have flowed towards them over the last 50 years, it is painful to note that in large parts of Africa there is still bitter poverty. Of course, there are countries or regions where modest progress has been made, but this is in no way proportionate to the investments made. On balance, the Third World, at least Africa, has not made much progress. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to name the elephant in the room, because no one else will do it during this debate. Development aid on this scale is not working, it has never worked and it is not going to work. Those were the literal words of the President of Ghana, Akufo-Addo, almost a year ago when he called on the African countries to stop wanting to be dependent on Western aid. I would ask the Minister to take his appeal seriously and to face the fact that we have made an entire continent an aid addict and that it is high time to stop doing so. It is good that this awareness also penetrates developing countries themselves. Not only the President of Ghana, but also that of Rwanda, Kagame, has publicly advocated an end to the aid relationship with the West. He said, the less the world cares about us, the more we will be able to take care of ourselves. My question to the Minister is whether, apart from Ghana and Rwanda, there are other countries that have indicated their desire to get rid of the subsidy relationship and, if so, which one? And did the Dutch government comply with that? To what extent has development aid stopped to these countries? Can the Minister promise that it will immediately speed up the phasing-out of the subsidy relationship with countries whose government has indicated that it is no longer priced? The Dutch citizen has also become aware of this. As many as 33% of the Dutch agree with the PVV's view that no more cents of taxpayers' money should be spent on development aid. So these are not just PVV voters, let me add just for the sake of clarity. At least, not yet. Does the Minister realise that the support for the current form of development aid is falling rapidly? What is the consequence of this? I'd like to call on her to have faith in the Dutch citizen. It can very well decide for itself whether and, if so, to what good cause he spends his hard-earned money. The Dutch people are known as very generous. The Netherlands has scored high in various charitable indices for years. The proceeds of Giro555 actions in recent years also give this confidence. Research shows that almost 34% of Dutch people prefer to help people in the Netherlands before helping people abroad. A number of charitable organisations have listened carefully to this and are now also engaged in activities in the Netherlands, partly because this was the wish of their donors. A good example that this cabinet should follow as far as the PVV is concerned. Spend the billions that are now going to development aid in the Netherlands. Put them out to our own people. It seems that this cabinet too knows that the support for OS policy is falling rapidly. This can be seen from the ever-changing argument why these billions of expenditure are still really needed there. The last sales pitch is now called tackling the root causes of poverty, terror and climate change and combating irregular migration. Quite translated: if we don't quickly make Africa less hot, with enough milking jobs and internships for everyone, they'll all come to Europe, and with a little bit of bad luck there are jihadis among those who are going to commit terrorist acts here; surely the Dutch taxpayer doesn't want that? Moral blackmail. I can't think of another word for it. And deception, by the way. Because this cabinet is not prepared to actually take the measures necessary to achieve these objectives. The only real cause of terror is Islam. In the name of Islamic ideology, death and destruction is sown, not only in Africa and the Middle East, but also in Europe, facilitated by the ferry services of Frontex and NGOs in the Mediterranean. How is the Minister going to stop the holy war that Islam is waging against the rest of the world? And how is it going to prevent the import of jihadist terrorists into Europe if it is not prepared to close the borders? The PVV is also very curious as to why the Minister thinks that creating a milking job or an internship for young people in Africa and adapting the climate will actually prevent them from travelling to Europe. They're coming because of our prosperity. The grass in Europe is greener than there is. This has nothing to do with climate, but that is our welfare state, which has an enormous appeal to migrants from developing countries. The promise of free money ensures that they come here from far and wide. The Minister himself can see that, can't he? These are migrants who travel half-Africa, make contact with smugglers, arrange thousands of dollars for the crossing to Europe and, arriving in Europe, find the way to assistance and free asylum lawyers without fail. This minister wants us to believe that such people are unable to create work or any other way of life for themselves in their own country or in a neighbouring country. This cabinet is trying to tell us that they are travelling to Europe because they cannot stay in Africa. They can stay to build their own country, they just don't want it. In the Netherlands you get free money and a free home, and you can also import your family at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer. No job created in Africa can compete with that! These are the consequences of years of aid addiction. This is what this is about. We must help people in developing countries to help themselves. Let them go. Let them decide for themselves what's good for them. Have faith. They're gonna make it. I'm sure of it. The road to it will not be easy, but it was not easy for the Netherlands either. Growing up is accompanied by growing pains. It's part of life. If we really want to help Africa, if we really want to help developing countries, if we really want to do what's best for them, then we will stop our Western interference today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u4	Thank you. A question from Mr Van Haga. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u5	I can't help it. Mrs Van Weerdenburg pointed out that EUR 4.5 billion was spent on development cooperation. I'm sure that's spent on things she doesn't like. Then I find it so unfortunate that she does not participate in helping to route that money to the things she likes. Why doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u6	Thank you for this question. The PVV chooses very clearly for the Dutch. We want that money to be spent in the Netherlands. Then, of course, it is very strange to say 'that 4.5 billion we want to spend on that and not on that'. I think people can very well decide for themselves what they spend their money on. One does it to a nature organization, the other chooses for a particular African country with which he has a connection. People know that for themselves. So that's gonna be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u7	Thank you. You were already at the end of your speech. This means that I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Haga. Mr Van Haga speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to thank you for allowing me to do this budget on behalf of the VVD. This is my first plenary debate on this portfolio and I will do my best to continue the line of my illustrious predecessors Dijkhoff, Taverne and Becker. Let me begin with international trade, the most important part of our minister's portfolio, with great distance. As Mr Amhaouch of the CDA recently said in a debate, it is not just about trade in combination with development cooperation, but also about external trade in itself. It's about earning hard money for e.g. the Netherlands. Let us never forget that money must also be made and let us be clear: without trade we have no money for development aid. Mr. Chairman. We live in a beautiful country. We lack nothing and this prosperity is earned for a large part abroad. We have been doing this for centuries and with great success. 32% of our income is earned by foreign trade. Dutch exports account for 3.2% of world trade and we are the seventeenth economy in the world. According to the Global Innovation Index, we're even in second place. We can be very proud of this. For a small country we do very well, but we have to work very hard to maintain this position in the world, or even improve it. All of that in a world that's changing at a furious pace. China is not only pounding over Africa, but is now also pounding at the gates of Europe. In fact, through e-commerce, competition is tough with our own SMEs. If entrepreneurs in other countries are smarter, more innovative and cheaper, we need to get our hands on our own and just do it smarter. But there's something else going on here. There is no level playing field. China does not comply with WTO rules, nor with OECD standards. Chinese companies can simply buy Dutch companies and vice versa cannot. With us, state aid is prohibited, and the Chinese do. There is a large-scale violation of patents and intellectual property that brings development costs to us and flows turnover and profits to China. And finally, a lot of Chinese electronics are unsafe, so our data can be stolen once more. Mr. Chairman. I know that the cabinet will soon come up with a China strategy, but I would like to know specifically from the Minister what we can do about this in the short term. This brings me to the role of the government in external trade. Normally, I always argue for as little government as possible. The government is often the biggest enemy of the entrepreneur: too many rules, too much interference, often unreliable because rules change each time and often without transitional arrangements. I can talk about it. In trade promotion, the government does indeed have a role to play. Just because other countries are doing the same. There's a lot going well, too. Firstly, the Netherlands is very strong in organising trade missions. Both our king and our prime minister have a great role to play in this. I would like to say to the Minister: the more, the better. Secondly, the Netherlands has an excellent postal network where trade certificates do excellent work. Thirdly, the government has a role to play in protecting our entrepreneurs by concluding trade agreements and creating a level playing field. Of course, this role has been largely transferred to the EU, but it is also dealt with differently within the EU. We tend to be the nicest boy in the class, and that can sometimes lead to another European country taking the booty. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she agrees with the VVD that efforts should be made to harmonise standards at least within Europe. I actually know what the answer is: yes, we are in favour of a level playing field, but with our extremely high moral standards. That is almost certainly not going to work, so immediately the follow-up question. Does the Minister not agree that we should be pragmatic in the harmonisation of standards within Europe and that it would be better if we ended up somewhere in the middle than with our moral superiority behind the net?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u9	There is a question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u10	The VVD just mentioned free trade agreements and a level playing field in one breath, but does the VVD agree with me on the following? That if we conclude a free trade agreement with a country where the minimum wage is very low, where companies are not at all forced to pay a living wage, where environmental standards are very different and where pollution of nature by multinationals is the order of the day, then there is no level playing field, but that small companies here in the Netherlands are forced to go to the bottom in that race, because they face unfair competition? This would then be made possible by a free trade agreement, whereas otherwise there would be a level playing field because SMEs can simply do their job in a fair and sustainable way. This is very common in the agricultural sector, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u11	Mr. Alkaya and I have had this debate before. We are convinced that a free trade agreement or a treaty in itself leads to a level playing field and is very good for other countries, and that we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u12	That is once again the position of the VVD, but I am actually looking for an answer. Suppose you are a small entrepreneur in the Netherlands, a farmer, and you try to farm livestock in a relatively sustainable way. We will soon have a free trade agreement with Mercosur countries. Then Argentina's meat comes onto the Dutch market, forcing that small farmer to compete in that race to the bottom or to sell his beef two, three times as expensive. Was there a level playing field at that time because of the Free Trade Agreement or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u13	In a large trade agreement you always have 90% success and 10% maybe less success. I therefore agree with you that you can certainly find an example where that is less true, but in general I am still a VVD member it is good for both parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u14	But maybe not for the animals. I'm just trying to focus on what the VVD is saying right now. If it is not possible to harmonise because our standards may be higher, then perhaps we should sit in the middle a little bit, I hear the VVD say now. Does this mean that, because of the free trade agreements, we have to accept products produced under lower animal welfare standards than the Dutch ones, that we should not be so difficult about that? Is that what the VVD says here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u15	No, with the same standards and this harmonisation, I meant more that we in Europe must ensure that we harmonise standards so that we cannot refuse an order that France will then deliver. That seems to me to be a bad thing, because if we have a certain standard, it would be nice for France to stick to it. That is why my question to the Minister was: do you agree with me that we can have better harmonised standards and that perhaps we should turn in a little bit? But to return to your question about animals, I generally agree with you when it comes to animals. You know that, but I think it is better for other countries that may have lower standards, to conclude such a treaty and eventually grow to our level. I think this is indeed very important and I know that you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u16	That's a good start. Then I would very much like to look further ahead. Suppose we manage to conclude a treaty with Latin America, for example, and agree on the same standards, but we are not yet there with animal welfare. If we want to take the next step in the Netherlands and Europe, for example by putting an end to caged animals, Latin America says: "Yes, but we are not going to do that. We just agreed on this level. We're not going to take that step any further." Does the VVD recognise that it will be more difficult to take that next step once you have concluded that treaty? After all, you have an open market with Latin America. If we wanted to do something more for the animals, they would have to join us, otherwise we wouldn't have a level playing field again. How does the VVD see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u17	This is always a difficult negotiation and thousands of things are being negotiated. I agree with you that it is a bit difficult once you have a treaty. Then you have to take safeguard measures, so you have a point there, but then it is still better to have a treaty than no treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u19	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the trade agenda. Recently, our esteemed minister presented her trade agenda. We've talked about this before. Again, I appreciate the brave effort. I mean that sincerely. But it is not a trade agenda; it is an OS agenda. It is mainly about encouraging female entrepreneurs, the Sustainable Development Goals, adding more women to trade missions and that sort of thing. Trade is, after all, the underprivileged child who has to fight against development aid. I quote from the trade agenda: 'In future trade agreements, we want to make explicit agreements on gender'. Again, I cannot fail to say that the VVD is about quality and not about race, gender or colour. If the best Dutch trade mission consists of twenty blue leprechauns, then so be it. However, we have already had the debate on Wipneus and Pim or, as the Minister recalled, on leprechaun Wipwap. I therefore conclude that we need a real trade agenda. I will make a proposal on this shortly. Mr. Chairman. The Brexit is one of the biggest threats to our foreign trade. My colleague, Mr Mulder, said a few things about this last week, and it is still uncertain, so I will leave it at that for the moment. Fingers crossed over the next few weeks. Mr. Chairman. Development cooperation is clearly our Minister's absolute specialty. The coalition agreement states that we are going to fight the root causes of poverty, migration, terror and climate change. I have to say with great admiration that this Minister is doing so, and much more. It is a pity that our resources are limited, otherwise it would have been possible to put the whole world back in order in one cabinet period. But unfortunately, we don't have enough money to do everything, and that's why choices need to be made. Especially on this wallet, that is sometimes extremely difficult. However, I would like to call for more focus here. However painful it may be, it is better to spend the money where it has the greatest effect. First of all, focus. It is better to divide the money available between a limited number of focus countries. We had fifteen, and it has become much more. In the answers to the actual questions I count 37 countries. By the way, in the other answers, I see countries coming back which are not on that list of 37 countries, such as Chile and Mexico. The Minister can explain this, if she so wishes, because perhaps the list is much longer. As far as the VVD is concerned, we need to return to a limited number of countries that we are going to focus on. It is not for nothing that the coalition agreement also speaks of focus. The coalition agreement mentions only three focus countries: Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan. Then it is not the intention to add 34 more countries. And yes, you have already guessed: I am considering a motion on this point. Focus and effectiveness also means that we don't spend money in countries that don't really need it. We spend money in OECD countries, like Chile and Mexico. It's not much, 1.3 million euros, but it's just tax money. This amount does not include the contribution to international organisations in those countries. I would suggest that this minister no longer spends OS money in OECD countries, because those countries do not need our money and it is at the expense of helping other countries that do need our help. Depending on the Minister's reaction, I am also considering a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u20	There's a question from Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u21	I have a question for the VVD. You're saying there's got to be more focus, but that's what we agreed on, isn't it? When you look at the distribution of budgets, don't you see we're focusing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u22	Yes. We only mention three focus countries, which I mentioned. I thought the deal was we'd have 15 focus countries, and now I'm counting 37 countries where we're doing something. I think if you have a limited amount of money, you can concentrate it better in certain countries that need it the most. Especially if you notice that we are also giving money to certain OECD countries, I think we should use that money elsewhere where it is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u23	Of course, we have agreed to focus more on those countries and those focus regions that we have identified. But before that, of course, we have had more relationships with different countries, and we can't just stop projects, bam. We'll take that down where we can. So my question is again: we're focusing now, aren't we? And we're not gonna stop all the projects that are already running just like that, bam, because then you're gonna throw the kid away with the bathwater, right? Don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u24	Yeah, actually, I agree with you. You say, bam, we stop. But I didn't say that. You're also saying we're gonna cut it down. Well, if we can find each other in there, I think we have a deal. I think you said it very well. We're focusing. That's what we agreed. Well, we're not gonna take down anything stylish, but if we can end certain things and use the money somewhere else better, then we'll do it right, I guess. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is committed to good care in the region and is also making money available for it. Nevertheless, we will reduce our voluntary contribution to the UNHCR by EUR 7 million next year, from EUR 40 million to EUR 33 million. Can the Minister explain why? This is precisely a priority of the cabinet. I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. Our attention is also drawn to the global climate and energy problem. The VVD believes that our taxpayers' money should be well spent, with the highest possible impact. Four million people die every year because they light their house with oil lights because they have no electricity or because they cook at bad facilities. To help solve this problem, the VVD has tabled two amendments: one for stimulating small-scale solar energy projects and one for innovative solutions to combat indoor air pollution. Mr. Chairman. Recently we received a letter on the Climate Fund, which pays 40 million a year for four years. Unfortunately, there is again a lot of text here on gender, poverty, social risks and women's rights, but that aside. I also read that the application form asks whether the implementing organisation Partos 9001 is certified. Can the Minister promise that the taxpayers' money in the Climate Fund will really benefit from improving the global climate? And can the Minister promise that this money not only goes to NGOs, but simply to the best executor, who can achieve the best result? Mr President, I come to the implementation. Implementation is a broader problem. From various pieces we note that a relatively small part of what we spend on OS is carried out by Dutch organisations. This was also the reason for the Becker motion to make better use of EU funds by Dutch organisations. Only 25% of the resources for drinking water, sanitation, climate, renewable energy and sustainable resource management, for example, are spent through Dutch operators. 25%: that is really very little. I call on the Minister to do something about this. On this point, too, I am considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. I know the Minister is not in favour of tied aid. We've talked about that a few times before. This is aid in which Dutch companies are given priority in projects financed with Dutch development money. We discussed this in the Imvo debate. Nevertheless, I would like to explain to the Minister in the week that the unique selling point of many Dutch companies is that they are already imvo-proof and that it is therefore much better to get help from Dutch companies than, for example, from Chinese companies, who, like locusts, eat the land bald. Furthermore, Dutch companies often have unique added value in the areas of water, sanitation, dredging and agriculture. Better use should be made of this. Previously, the General Court noted that the share of business in the total ODA remains relatively small. So my question is: can we not give our own business a somewhat larger role in OS than is currently the case? I would like to hear from the Minister whether and, if so, how she sees it. "Made in Holland" is a very big gift. As a result, I would like to talk about the political conditionality of development aid. My colleague, Mr Koopmans, has already tabled a motion on this subject on behalf of the VVD when discussing the foreign affairs budget, which I fully support. In short, development aid is fine, but then a country must also help to take back the illegal immigrants who have been persecuted. Can the Minister promise that she will make an effort to this end or at least stress this in her contacts with recipients of development aid? Mr. Chairman. There are real steps to be taken in terms of transparency. My predecessor Becker has always insisted on this, but not much has happened yet. If we want to know what's going on in OS-area, we can surf to osresults.nl, openaid.nl, data.publicity.nl or to the annual reports of the various performers and the Chamberpieces. In addition, we have the budgets and annual reports of the cabinet. In one place we find transactions, on the other subsidy overviews, on the other impact visualizations, on the other budget articles, funds, objectives... Totally clueless. And it's technically possible to link up all those statements for a long time. If it's up to the VVD, tax-paying Dutch people will soon be able to go to one website, where they can see what is being spent on which project, where that project is made up of, which policy objective is behind it and what the impact is. In consultation with organisations like Openaid, the Minister can do this. Of course, this requires capacity, but for transparency we need to have something left. The VVD is of course aware that it is becoming more difficult to make general contributions to multilateral organisations, but all earmarked contributions and all IATI data can simply be linked. In addition, the VVD Group wants this information to go to the Chamber actively and structurally, as was also discussed with the Minister in June. The VVD is also considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Transparency also includes a good overview of subsidies. In the factual questions I asked for a clear overview including the amount and the subsidy. The Minister replied that the Chamber may consider the list confidential, because some organisations cannot be known to receive subsidies. That is understandable, of course, but it is not enough. I would ask the Minister to make the list public and to remove the sensitive subsidies, because a subsidy statement is useful and not much to ask for. Then the Central Bureau of Fundraising. Mr Becker tabled a motion in response to the abuses in various aid organisations which the government requested to discuss with the CBF in order to be able to assess the integrity policy and action on an annual basis. The VVD considers it important that the CBF should also have the capacity to assess aid organisations. Can the Minister state what progress has been made on the implementation of this motion by Mr Becker? Is the CBF already equipped to carry out this task? Finally, I would like to talk to you about contraception and family planning, two things on which the UN Population Fund and the World Bank are doing a tremendously good job. As I said, we are doing very well in the Netherlands. We have all the information and all the possibilities at our disposal. At school we get sexual education, the GP is always there for you and you can always contact the GGD. It's not like that all over the world. The countries to which we offer development aid face major problems, such as poverty, malnutrition, inadequate education and unequal rights. With the huge population growth in these countries, the problems are getting worse. We can do something about that with the limited resources we have. We don't have to reinvent the wheel here. That's what organizations like Gavi and the Rutgers Foundation have already done. They argue in harsh figures that the first step to help people in developing countries is to give them access to and provide information on contraception. With contraception and family planning, they can make choices about whether or not to have children, just like we can. We do not impose that on them, but we do give them the freedom to make their own choices. This helps families and, above all, avoids the tragedy of many childbirths that too often die in their first month of life. With my amendment, which you have all been able to see, I hope to contribute to the freedom that is common in the Netherlands but not in many places in the world, following beautiful initiatives such as She Decides by former Minister Ploumen. Mr President, that was it. I see interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u25	I saw that too, but I waited for you to finish the block. Mrs. Van den Hul first. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u26	To be honest, I am rather shocked by the statements made by Mr Van Hage earlier this week on the issue of birth control, and I was certainly not alone in that. What problem does Mr Van Haga really intend to solve? The problems of women who have been fighting for the right to self-determination or the problem of the VVD for many years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u27	That's a funny question. The VVD doesn't really have that much trouble. But if you ask me what I am giving everyone in the world, what the VVD gives everyone in the world and what a liberal gives the rest of the world, that is the freedom to make the same choices as we do. When are you gonna have kids? Are you having kids at all? And if you have kids, how much? And then you hope you can start a normal family. That is the purpose of this amendment. You read the amendment. There's no one to object to that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u28	I have still not heard a real response to the statements made by Mr Van Haga earlier this week. These were statements in which, for example, words such as "reward" occurred. Since the 1960s, women have been fighting worldwide for the right to be boss in their own belly. We really do not need Mr Van Haga and his performance theories. What women do need are equal rights, access to good education, access to good health care, access to contraception and safe abortion, access to equal rights on every front and to human rights organisations that help to protect these rights. That's really helpful for women. If Mr Van Haga is as concerned about the women's case as he says, then I have a lot of proposals. We can work together to support women around the world. To this end, I would like to invite Mr Van Haga. And otherwise, for a feminist like me, this smells like a strong piece of mansplaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u29	I hear a lot of good things coming out of your mouth. I must honestly say that the VVD doesn't really reject anything. When you see all the SDGs together, I'm a little surprised that there are six parties that have adopted gender and no one is hungry. As far as we're concerned, you have to make the greatest possible impact. I think we can all find each other in that. So if you want to go through the President with me, of course, and look for the best possible solution to the problems in the countries in which we invest, then we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u30	Finally, Mr President. Mr Van Haga suggests that solving hunger is as important as the gender issue. Absolutely, no one here disagrees with him in that respect. I would nevertheless like to invite Mr Van Haga to look into research carried out by, among other things, the World Bank. This shows that a very large part of the world's hunger problem is solved if women have the same opportunities and access as men. So I look forward to competing with Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u31	I still have a reaction to that. Much of the freedom and self-determination of women in third world countries also lies in access to and information on contraception. So I guess we're not that different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u32	I hear terms like "you're having kids." I think you're having kids. Some women would love to have children, but they can't have children. I hope Mr. Van Haga means it that way. My question is about priorities. We read some of Mr Van Haga's articles in the newspaper. He says: we actually have to put everything, the little money we have, on birth control and give information about it. I will not pronounce it entirely, but he says: it is lllig.... and then I leave you the way for the Acts... for those people that they don't get schools anymore; you can only spend the money once. I have a simple question for Mr Van Haga. Does he still subscribe to the coalition agreement? The government agreement focuses on four priorities: food safety, clean water, legal certainty and SRGR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u33	Of course, I agree with the coalition agreement, otherwise I wouldn't be standing here. Whether you have children or take... I did get them. I have four kids and I'm very happy about that, but I've been able to plan it myself. I've been able to decide that for myself. A lot of girls in third world countries can't do that. Surely you must agree with me that this is a subject that we must address? That does not mean that the other SDGs are completely out of the picture. But it is so painful that you have to pay great attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u34	I have heard Mr Van Haga mention in the media a different list of priorities than we hear from him now. So I'm gonna ask him again. The priorities he mentioned in the media were: contraception, vaccination and then something with hunger, I believe. Have these become the priorities of the VVD or is Mr Van Haga still in favour of the Minister's priorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u35	If you're going to look at the different websites, for example from GAVI and list all those instances, you'll see that it usually has to be an integral approach. But that is without prejudice to the fact that all these organisations also say that you should focus on the things that are important at that time. Here in the Netherlands, these are other things than in a poor country. I've been in Gabon for years. I've seen the most horrible things there. So you're not gonna start with things that we think are very important here; no, you're gonna start with other things. If that's what you mean by priorities, there's a difference between what we do here and what we do there. To answer your question, yes, I agree with the coalition agreement and I think we can find each other if we look for an integrated approach that addresses all these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u36	An integrated approach, everyone is in favour of it, but we have agreed priorities in the Cabinet. This also includes the schools that Mr Van Haga should not have much of, because in the reception in the region in the countries around Syria we have been focusing on education for those asylum children, for those refugee children who do not now receive that education. Not in Turkey 50%, not in Lebanon 60%. Is that what you're still for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u37	The VVD is of course for education, without a doubt, and also for building schools. That's not a problem at all. This is a country that is living in absolute poverty. If you look at women's right to self-determination there, a very large part of the problems could be solved if you are indeed talking about access to contraception and knowledge about contraception. Besides, knowledge about contraception is also a bit of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u38	First birth control, then vaccinate, then fight hunger, then the rest. Make sure African women have fewer children. Do I now understand from this answer that Mr. Haga takes back his statement, this roaring statement in the Telegraph of Monday morning? It is not Mr. Haga who decides how many children are given African women, but African women have to decide for themselves in the first place. Do you waive that ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u39	If it is right, you have just heard me argue that it is up to these ladies to decide for themselves and that that is precisely the approach. If you read the amendment correctly, that is exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u40	If Mr Van Haga had meant that, he should have said so. I find it really disgusting what you say about poor people in other countries in this way. You say you have to decide how many children should have African women. I'm sorry about that. I think you should take that back, if you did not mean it. Second. If I were to ask Mr Haga to choose between feeding to children, there are 3.1 million children killed every year by malnutrition or contraception to women, does he indeed opt for contraception and let those children die because it is more profitable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u41	Of course, we're not gonna decide for other people how many children they're gonna have. That's up to them. And that's exactly what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u42	Mrs. Van Weerdenburg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually missed a part of Mr Van Haga's speech. He has recently submitted an initiative law on combating orphanage tourism. I was actually a little surprised at the form, because it is full of decisions that are actually a request to the Minister to do something or to arrange something. I was wondering why you didn't just do that in the budget. I think you have some time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u44	I didn't expect this interruption. I do have time left. I do not think it is something we should deal with in the budget. There's gonna be another round table. It's just been inserted. It's not something that really costs a lot of money. It is mainly something that should increase the awareness of people here in the west... mainly in the Netherlands.................................................................................................................................................................................... If you have energy and money left to do something good, that good intention will not always result in a good idea and in this case you will maintain a huge perverse industry. In addition, of course, we have orphanages here for a reason. When children become orphans here, they are usually taken care of by family or in a foster home. That's a much better solution. But it's so painful that I'm glad you're bringing it in. There are 8 million so-called orphanages in the world. 6.5 million of them aren't orphans at all. They're just being exploited. I'd like to talk to you about it again outside this meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u45	You submitted the proposal, so it will be dealt with at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u46	I agree with Mr Van Haga and I do not think there is one party in this Chamber that disagrees with him. I'm just surprised you're not making the request to the Minister right now. We've got her full attention all night. Knowing this minister, she would commit three quarters. The rest could have been arranged by way of motions. So I think it's a bit of a missed opportunity after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u47	Thank you for your support. I'm inviting you to the round table. I think it is so important that it deserves a separate treatment. In Australia it has been converted into a law: the Modern Slavery Act. Sometimes we just ask for attention to things here. As a result of the fact that we have drawn attention to this, much has already happened. I'm not discontented, but we're gonna ask the minister about it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u48	Still, let's get back to birth control. You will not be surprised that GroenLinks was also very surprised at your explanation of the amendment, about the explanatory statement you gave. I've gotten a little confused about that. The amendment itself is fine. It is about contraception, a sensible subject for which I believe we have broad support in this Chamber. You then set out all kinds of relationships that have just been appointed by others, including Mrs Karabulut. Can you tell me again how you see the empowerment of girls and women? If you look at contraception, if you look at the possibility for girls and women to give their own meaning to their lives, if you look at self-determination, can you reflect on the comments you have made about return?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u49	Return is widely seen by many people as a return on invested capital, but it is also about the impact. How much good do you do with your activities? If you look at Rutgers' site, you can see 212 million girls in Africa don't have access to contraception when they want to. In the light of that gap, you can make my comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u50	But still a little deeper. If you then indicate that education in your own prioritization is of a lesser order, then I am greatly surprised. Training and education, empowering girls and women, do they have the right to make greater use of this right of self-determination? If you can't fill it out, if you can't take care of yourself, if you're totally dependent on a man who's molesting you in all kinds of ways, if you're trapped in a child's marriage... call all the variants of horrors that girls in Africa have to endure... isn't education incredibly important to help those girls? You can't put one thing above the other, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u51	Mrs Diks, you agree with me that it is a great thing for a woman there to have access to contraception and then to decide for herself whether she will have a family and, if so, how big her family will be? After that, the possibility of training will be much greater, won't it? It's much better to put that into an integrated approach, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u52	I'm gonna put a third question to it anyway. You say it with a reasonable face and I have also met you in the past few months, I have to say that as a reasonable VVDer with proposals that I was really positive about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u53	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u54	The whole idea of contraception and its use is, of course, fine and I do not think that anyone here is opposed to it. The problem is the context that you yourself have created around it. The last question I would like to ask is: do you now regret that it has been presented in this way? Would you have liked to present it differently? The other question I have to ask is: if you look at education for girls and women, then you see information on contraception as training for women. I don't see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u55	To begin with, considering contraception education as training is, of course, very boud. I couldn't agree more. The context. No, I still think our story stands. You have read my amendment. I've also known you for the past few months as a very reasonable person. If you read my amendment, do you have to conclude that the objective we are pursuing is exactly the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u56	I see another question from Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u57	Still, a point of interest that bothers me tonight. I heard it on TV earlier and I read it in the newspaper, but now I hear Mr Van Haga talking all the time tonight about 'girls in Africa' and 'women in Africa'. Contraception and access to it, free choice and access to safe abortion is a global problem. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u58	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u59	The second point. Does Mr Van Haga agree with us that Africa is a continent that consists of a lot of countries and will we stop calling Africa as one homogeneous country? Let us not stigmatise the names of the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u60	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u61	I don't know if that's stigmatizing. I fully agree with Mr Van den Hul that every country in Africa is different. I happen to have been in Gabon for a few years. Every time I got there, I got there with a bag full of meds. That was, like, rowing the cliffs, because eventually you stand empty-handed and people still die. It is a big problem and we want to do something about it. I believe that with this amendment we are achieving a good shift of money and that as a result girls in Africa are going to determine which countries they are, the Minister will indeed have access to contraception. I think we are doing something good with that, and I hope you will support me in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u62	Thank you. You were already at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u63	Yeah, I'm gonna quit now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u64	No, I'm not. Look, Mrs. Karabulut! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u65	Mr Van Haga appears to be a specialist in Africa and a specialist in profitability thinking. That's why I'd like to give him this card. It shows all the wealth of Africa: lots of raw materials, oil, diamonds, etc. Africa is a very rich continent. Mr Van Haga spoke about transparency and solving problems in Africa. Did Mr Van Haga know, does Mr Van Haga know that more money than all the money for development aid going to African partner funds comes from those countries through tax evasion? Mr Van Haga spoke about transparency and is he prepared to make public all the tax deals made by the VVD with large companies, including Shell, a company that has very bad practices in these poor countries, and to put an end to this tax avoidance? Worldwide, it would be 200 billion. Then we won't have to hand out Mr. Van Haga's millions anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u66	Yeah, Africa is a very rich continent. I've been sitting there too long not to be very sad about how it develops in relation to the wealth they have. They should, of course, be completely different. If all logging and oil profits and all diamond yields had flowed back to the African countries themselves, then it was a completely different story. Now it is also true that a lot of these African countries themselves are a little bit debatable; that is a second. We are now talking about the budget for external trade and development cooperation. We can talk here about a few billion. That is a lot of money, but it is, of course, a drop in the ocean for Africa. By the way, I am very pleased with a conversation I had with Minister Kaag a few months ago. She explained to me, fortunately, in a very business-like way that a lot of our money is being delivered. So it's not just our few billions, but it's a huge amount of money that we can send there. So there's still hope. But to answer your first question, I agree with you that, of course, this could be much better and that Africa should actually be a very rich continent. It still varies from country to country, of course. Your second question was about Shell's tax deals. I worked for Shell for ten years, but I never got so high they told me about a tax deal. For the rest, we have a spokesman for Taxation in our group. So I like to ignore tax deals with Shell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u67	Your sixth question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u68	My sixth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u69	Oh, yes, we do. We do. It goes by group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u70	The fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u71	No, no, your sixth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u72	I think it's the eighth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u73	No, no, no, it's your sixth question. You may ask him, but I'll remind you of that. Your colleague also had two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u74	Oh, well, as a fraction. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I was confused for a moment. My colleague has also asked questions, indeed. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this isn't a joke. In any case, I am pleased that Mr Van Haga recognises that there is a great deal of wealth, which also flows out of the country by large multinationals, and that Africa, if it were to preserve that wealth and, for example, if tax avoidance were to be tackled, could fight poverty. But my question about Shell and other large multinationals is very serious, because the Dutch taxpayer also misses another 150 billion in tax revenue. The Prime Minister has all the contacts with Shell and other major multinationals. So it would be nice if Mr Van Haga here tonight at least said: okay, that is indeed a way to combat inequality; let us be transparent in that. After all, he advocates transparency for all these NGOs. I say, well, let's put multinationals under that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u75	That's a good question. I do not know if all the money comes from the African countries through multinationals. My experience is that different dictators play a proper role in this and do not always have a good time with their nationals. I also noticed a big difference between Dutch companies and companies from other countries in the time I was there; take a country like China. I can give you a note that a country in Africa can be much happier with a company from the Netherlands than with a Chinese company, such as SinoPac, that really goes through a country like a locust plague. That's a lot worse off for people in a country like this. So we should also be a little proud of our own companies. The question was about Shell. I have already answered that. I really don't feel free to say anything about Shell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u76	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. I would now like to give Mrs Diks the floor. She speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are using the discussion of the budget today to give fresh impetus to the fight for better women's rights around the world. Women in this world still have a far from equal position with men. That is not only a great injustice, but also an incredible stupidity, which we as humanity must put right in the next century. Women have a lot to offer the world. It's an untapped barrel full of creativity, love and productivity. But I am not talking about the injustice that women are being harmed worldwide. Mr. Chairman. In October, I visited on behalf of the Multi-Party Initiative Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights, SRGR so I will now abbreviate the international SRGR conference in Ottawa. In addition to all kinds of other sensible subjects, I have been briefed on the horrific and life-long consequences of girl circumcision, or rather, genital mutilation. Girl circumcision is a barbaric torture practice, intended to suppress women and label them as commodities. It robs women of sexual pleasure, can lead to health problems and social exclusion for a lifetime and carries the risk of very dangerous pregnancies, not to mention childbirth. Mutilated girls often fall out of school because they can be married out immediately. Because of all these, also cultural, effects, this is a very complex matter. More than 200 million girls are currently circumcised worldwide. In 2013, UNHCR estimated that number of women and girls at 125 million. The figures are, of course, an estimate, because many of the perpetrators and victims want to hide the mutilation, but it is obvious that this torture practice is unfortunately not getting any less, but is increasing more and more. Mr. Chairman. Girl circumcision needs to be eliminated. Even though we are a small country, our actions are great. Let that also be the case when it comes to the fight against girl circumcision. On behalf of the MPI, the Multi-Party Initiative with the Animal Party, Labour Party, D66, Christian Union, VVD, CDA and SP, I have therefore tabled an amendment to free 2 million to deal with genital mutilation of women and girls (35000-XVII, piece No. 23). In Tanzania, for example, two so-called safe houses have been set up where girls can go if they want to escape genital mutilation. Another example is Kenya, where, on the initiative of a fugitive Masai woman, a project was launched for a safe house where fled girls can get rest, safety and care and then receive education and coaching to work on their future. Those are wonderful initiatives that deserve to be followed. Mr. Chairman. Luckily, girls' and women's rights get a lot of attention in the Chamber during this period. Several amendments have been tabled to SRGR. I would like to call on the Minister to combine this in an action programme SRGR. Then we merge an integrated and forward-looking approach with attention and money for the broad-based theme of SRGR. What does the Minister think of this idea? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Giving women land rights to women is also a major step forward in women's emancipation and economic development. In many African countries and in Southeast Asia, the percentage of female landowners is still below 20%. Land ownership by women increases their economic independence, their influence and their rights. In its policy paper, the Minister rightly wrote that an innovative approach to land rights is essential for achieving at least half of the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris climate goals. I understand that a new country governance facility is currently under consideration in the Ministry. That sounds like a possible useful addition to the Minister's land rights agenda, especially if it also explicitly pays attention to land rights for women. We already see good examples of this in Senegal and Kenya. Can the Minister comment on the plans for this new country governance facility and, above all, on how the Chamber can contribute to this? I'd like a response. Also the availability of safe and clean sanitation, so toilets, showers, drinking water, is still far too little in the right direction. Globally, 4.5 billion people do not yet have safe sanitation, giving diseases such as cholera, dysentery and typhoid the opportunity to flourish, with all the human suffering that comes with it. With its 2020 policy paper, the Minister wants to provide 12 million additional people with safe sanitation. But if current trends aren't broken, we don't seem to make it. Does the Minister see that risk? Is it prepared to come up with a calculated agenda to meet the 2020 target? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In addition to climate finance, we also need to monitor businesses and trade, whether what we do is consistent with our climate ambitions. After all, parts of international trade policy are still hard at work to undermine our national commitment to climate change. After all, the Monitor Brede Welvaart shows that the Netherlands is the largest importer of fossil energy, especially from the least developed countries, of all European countries. The recent United Nations report on CO emissions once again shows that we really cannot go on the same path. The point of no return, of actual irreversibility of climate change, is already in the foreseeable future. The Minister just sent it yesterday, I believe, the letter on the Climate Fund. It states that it chooses to award the fund to one party through a tender, which will ensure that it is drawn up in accordance with a number of principles. How does this method ensure that the consequences of climate change for vulnerable women worldwide, for girls and women, for flora and fauna, etc., are properly flown? And here too: how are civil society organisations and the Chamber sufficiently involved? In this context, what does the Minister think about global ecosystems, the degradation of global ecosystems and their management? How do we ensure a more global approach? As I said, climate has everything to do with everything. I'd like a response. When it comes to development cooperation, we are also talking about issues such as SRGR, land rights, sanitation, women's rights, climate adaptation and so on. It is crucial to recognise that one cannot be seen separately from the other. You can protect girls and women from genital mutilation, but without education and work they can't move forward and have hardly any prospects. We've been talking about it for a while. The policy coherence that we have to apply is not just about this minister's portfolio. Let me give you a few examples. In Somalia, things are getting a little better after a long time. The Netherlands has actively contributed to this in many ways. The economy in Somalia would now benefit greatly from increased foreign investment. But companies also look at things like the travel advice of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when taking stock of their options. This is currently negative for the whole of Somalia. However, in some areas safety has improved considerably. Can the Minister and her colleague, Mr Blok, see if the opinion can be updated so that economic developments and investment can get back on track? Another example is the Africa In Motion Foundation, a company that connects investors in Africa with civil society organisations, in order to create new opportunities for employment in local economies. In short, it would support the Dutch business community if we sought more connection and cooperation with people from the diaspora in the foreign trade policy. How does the Minister see that? What has become of the Smaling motion, which also aimed at cooperation with groups in the diaspora? Another example is the participation of Dutch companies in the large-scale clearing of the Amazon forest for the benefit of the soya corridor in Brazil. The Dutch diplomatic post actively supported companies with fun leaflets and fine theme afternoons about international corporate social responsibility. However, in projects in which Dutch companies operate on a large scale, rainforest is cut down, the environment is polluted and human and natural rights are violated. In short, there is policy inconsistency. Is the Minister prepared, together with her colleague Mr Blok, to communicate clearly to all diplomatic posts that support should no longer be given to the activities of companies that facilitate large-scale logging in the rainforests? And can we now open up a place for civil society organisations in trade missions that can help the cabinet set the agenda for promoting corporate social responsibility? Mr. Chairman. Trade promotion and trade are good, as long as it is about sustainable and fair trade, of which not only the Netherlands but also the rest of the world gets better, or at least not worse. This means that, in future, trade missions must make it clear that Dutch sustainable and fair investment will only really start if the recipient countries create the right framework conditions. That is also why I tabled a motion earlier today to encourage the Prime Minister to use his conversation with President Duque of Colombia to make that clear. Dutch companies may want to, but it must also be made possible by the recipient countries. In this way, we can better put Dutch business on the map, but now in a sustainable and fair way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u78	There are a few more questions, so I'll give you some spare time. First of all, Mr Van Haga. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u79	I agree with the framework conditions that countries must create in order to receive Dutch companies. I'm not quite sure what you mean by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u80	If you assume that the good in man is what I do in most cases, then you would assume that according to Dutch policy, the Dutch government expects Dutch industry to act internationally socially responsibly, thus implementing the OECD guidelines and adopting the UN guiding principles as a carrier for its policy. Those companies go abroad, in this case Colombia or Brazil, for example, and get into a pedigree how do I say that nicely? This is a rotten system where there is corruption, where there is tax avoidance, where there is nepotism and where there are atrocious violations. Then it is of course very difficult for such a Dutch company to say: I am not in. 'Cause if you don't join in, then there's just a company coming from another country. So I can understand that. I understand it's happening. That is why we must help those other countries to get things in order, to lift the whole thing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u81	Then I'm really curious how that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u82	Well, such an example...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u83	Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u84	Oh, excuse me. An example like Colombia. That's what I found interesting about the motion. Prime Minister Rutte, of course, will talk to the President of Colombia. In principle there are two people at the table, but it is of course clear in that conversation that when Rutte talks, the trade power and power of the Netherlands is behind it. That means that you have a lever to stimulate others. I let it be kindly formulated to do the right thing. So that was my point of the motion. If you are going to question that with a country like Colombia, there are dozens of other countries where it is not going well, and if you say that trading for Dutch companies is really going to be a lot more difficult if they do not do anything about corruption, violations and so on, then you could probably pull some loose. That was actually the idea behind the motion I tabled tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u85	Thank you. Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u86	A very nice story from my colleague from GroenLinks. I think that Mrs Diks raises a number of issues that I think are very important. I therefore have a very simple question for my colleague from GroenLinks. Can you tell me how much money you have made available in your own counter-budget for OS?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u87	In our...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u88	Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u89	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. That's not nice of me. In our counter-budget, we have retained the cabinet money. So we kept the money the cabinet had estimated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u90	Isn't it true that GroenLinks hasn't released any extra money? You list a lot of topics that you think are very important. As far as I know, you have not released any extra money or any additional resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u91	No, I'm just telling you we didn't. Yeah, you can. I was just thinking, are we going down this path? Yeah, we're gonna do that. You have, however, provided extra money in cabinet policy for, for example, migration. A very large part of the extra money you have arranged in the cabinet is about matters relating to migration. Let me put it this broadly, because it is also explained by the cabinet. Border surveillance and all sorts of things are paid for. Of course, we have had this discussion before. The objection I have to this is that if you look at the development of societies, of groups that are still really lagging behind, the cabinet is wrong about this discussion. Every euro you take away from development aid, in my opinion, may cause more people to drift, more unrest, more chaos. Last time I said, it's gonna be a snake biting its own tail. What you're trying to avoid, you organize with your own policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u92	Thank you. The intention of an interruption is a short question, but the answer may also be a little shorter and more concise. Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u93	I will be brief, indeed. You were talking about biting your own tail. Indeed, you do not have any extra money, so that is a good observation. It's true that extra money will be released. There are very large sums of money going into education, reception in the region, refugees and climate, and indeed a very small part of migration goes into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u94	Then it might be that we have a different assessment of the word'small', because we do think that too much of this budget goes to migration. I just explained to you how we think it is. We're just disagreeing on that. We've already seen that twice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u95	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. I would now like to give Mrs Kuik the floor. Mrs Kuik speaks on behalf of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u96	Mr. Chairman. Am I my brother's keeper? The global political climate is increasingly "own country first" and aimed at raising an imaginary wall, but poverty, conflict, climate, terror, population growth and irregular migration are all interrelated. Trafficking in human beings, diseases and consequences of climate change, they don't stop at the border. So not only morally we should be involved, but we actually are. The world is connected. It is important to address at different levels the root causes of people's suffering and flight, something that this minister has also shaped in her policy and in this budget. For years, a record number of people have been on the run. 40 million refugees live in their own countries and 80% in neighbouring countries. Reception in the region is therefore taking place on a large scale. In Lebanon, for example, one in six residents is a refugee. This cabinet is committed to improving reception in the region. One of the focus countries is Lebanon. When you realize that refugees are on the road for an average of 17 years, away from their familiar environment, you know that facilities in the region, a safe living environment, health care, education and work are crucial to build a future. The CDA considers it important that the Minister intensifys access to education in refugee camps and also in the region itself. In this context, the local population, who suffers from the large numbers of refugees in countries such as Lebanon and Jordan, must also be given special attention. The CDA therefore wants a greater role for the EU there. Would the Minister care to comment on this? Together with the Christian Union, I have tabled a motion to increase the ARC Fund, Addressing the Root Causes of Migration. We want to promote access to vocational education and work for young people. A new fund, the Challenge Fund for Youth Employment, will be set up for this purpose. For the CDA, it is important that this fund should become permanent and that we give priority to young people in the future in their own country. Can the Minister explain the objectives of this fund? Then I come to the position of civil society. We note that the space for civil society is under pressure, while their involvement is important for sustainable development. How does the Minister intend to ensure this? I also want attention to be paid to our society. Does the Minister also see that there is an OS bubble and does she intend to involve Dutch people and thereby increase social awareness? For example, the CDA is thinking of achieving involvement by sharing our expertise in MBO and thus involving young people in development cooperation. We often use professional jargon as SDGs and gender equality, but ask what this means on the streets. Gender equality, we're not talking about bullshit like gender-neutral toilets. This is about essential matters such as security, being raped by gangs and then being evicted at home. It's women and girls who are the most vulnerable in conflict. I am also thinking of people with disabilities, who often do not even receive basic help. I also tabled a motion on this during the debate on the policy paper. Where do I see extra attention for people with disabilities in the budget? Are there, for example, a number of specific programmes for inclusion criteria in 2019? Reception in the region should mean a safe environment for women and girls. In refugee camps, girls and separate enclosed areas must stay overnight in order to be safe. I would like to draw particular attention to combating sexual exploitation and prostitution among refugees. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion tabled by the CDA on this matter? Then there are the growing reports of sex tourism, where children are being abused on a large scale. There are child marriages and refugee children disappear from camps from Italy and Greece. They're screaming for action. I would therefore ask the Minister to draw up an action plan to tackle child abuse more effectively. Finally, on this subject. Still 80 million girls in the world don't go to school. Girls who have been educated find better paid jobs, marry later and have fewer children than girls who haven't gone to school. Their children are healthier and better fed, reducing child mortality. So education for girls is not a decadent spending at all. I'm joining the Climate Fund. The newly established Climate Fund aims to address the consequences of climate change. The CDA believes that we should mainly use the 40 million in the fund to use the expertise of the Netherlands. Is that also the Minister's commitment? Can the Minister continue to focus on the Climate Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u97	I heard Mrs Kuik say that she wants to tackle the consequences of climate change. Climate change has led to more rain in the Sahel than in the previous 40 years for 15 years. So climate change is causing enormous greening, especially in the region where they are having such a hard time. So why would you want to oppose that, I ask Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u98	On the other hand, of course, there are also serious consequences for areas where floods occur and where there is drought. I'm curious how the PVV looks at that. We do see the consequences of climate change, which is causing crops to fail, causing entire populations to drift and flee. So I do see climate change as a problem. I also see that these consequences go beyond national boundaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u99	That was not an answer to my question. In the Sahel, climate change causes greening, larger harvests and increases in livestock. Why would we fight that? That's a good thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u100	I can't just fight those effects one-two-three. Let me be clear about that. But we do see that climate change has serious consequences, causing entire tribes to drift. Of course, it may happen that it rains more elsewhere and that it is beneficial in that respect, but overall, of course, it has a huge impact on a very large area. In the end, that's gonna hit all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u101	I don't think I'm gonna ask this question. Didn't expect you to, did you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u102	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u103	I was curious, because you were at the end of your Climate Fund piece. I myself asked the Minister how she looked at the fact that the Climate Fund is now being placed in a single tender with one implementing party. Just out of curiosity, how does the CDA view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u104	We do think it is important that we can also include the Dutch expertise in this. That is why I would ask the Minister to explain this a little more. Mr. Chairman. I'm a fucking ambassador. I want to eradicate tuberculosis. Son of a bitch, TB, may sound rude in our ears. I deliberately use this word choice because it demands serious attention. With 1.7 million deaths, it is the most deadly infectious disease in the world. Resistance to TB poses a major threat to global health, and diseases do not stop at the border. There has been an opacity of cases in Europe. The Netherlands plays an important role in combating TB in the world. As a first step, I have therefore tabled an amendment to disseminate new, successful diagnostics developed by the Netherlands through the WHO. I would ask the Minister to pay particular attention to TB when she talks about health issues. Diseases such as TB do not stop at the border, but neither do opportunities such as trade and innovation. That is what my colleague Amhaouch is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u105	Thank you, but I see another question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u106	Your amendment on TB is of course beautiful. We support that, too. You call it a miserable emotion. I actually like that, because you use very big words to add a little strength to it. Do you think that it has an extra effect, that it receives extra attention or that it benefits your amendment, if you use that term? I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u107	Well, you gotta stir up a little bit to get the attention. This is the most lethal infectious disease, but a lot of people don't know that. In this way we are getting more attention to that, so in that respect I think that is good for the purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u108	I listened to Mrs Kuik's contribution with a great deal of support. I agree with her that we have to do what we can to help. The Party for Animals wants a slightly higher budget for development cooperation, but shit. Before moving on to Mr Amhaouch's contribution, including from the CDA Group, I would like to know whether the CDA Group as a whole recognizes that there are two components. What misery do we see and what can we do to help? And we should. So, what do we do ourselves? How does our way of life contribute to the deterioration of the situation of many people in the world? I wonder how that debate is going within the CDA group. We are doing so much damage because of the way we live here, that all the good initiatives mentioned here by Mrs Kuik cannot solve them. How's that going inside the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u109	I am not going to invite you to our group meeting. I think that's going a little too far. It's two components. I indicated in the introduction that very bad things are happening in the world, and that we need to be involved in order to provide solutions. But there are also opportunities for Mr Amhaouch to deal with this later on, for which we take responsibility for doing business in a responsible manner, to see how we can take development and innovation a step further in countries where things are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u110	I do not mean to be unkind, because I also like Mr Amhaouch very much, but I can see that it is not just a budget for the CDA and a number of parties with two faces: I am very happy to help, because there are also parties who do not want to help at all, but do not want to change themselves. Leo Tolstoy said everyone wants to change the world, but nobody wants to change themselves. I think that changing ourselves is the challenge; that we ensure that we do not make it even more difficult for people in areas that are not so easy anyway. I would ask you to encourage Mr Amhaouch to take this into account in particular in his part of the CDA Group's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u111	Well, I leave Mr Amhaouch his own text. But we have had a debate about, for example, the sexual abuses that are taking place because we are helping. We have said that we must ensure that it is properly designed. That needs attention, we need to get better at it, and those things shouldn't happen. It's definitely a point we're all going to bet as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u112	Mrs Kuik has indeed used a number of terms of strength in her contribution. Mr Van Haga said what he thought. I ask Mrs Kuik what she thinks of Mr Van Haga's proposal, which was full of terms of strength. What is the CDA's view on Mr Van Haga's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u113	Then Mr Kuzu will have to help me by telling me what proposal we are talking about. I am not going to analyse Mr Van Haga's entire speech. I don't intend to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u114	Does Mrs Kuik really ask what Mr Van Haga's proposal is about? I'll help her. It is about the proposal he made last Monday at Pauw on the idea of profitability in development cooperation. He said that we should use the money for birth control and that we should lower the priorities of all the other things we do for development cooperation. You know very well what that was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u115	Thank you for the explanation. Mr Kuzu has also been able to see that an amendment has been tabled by D66 and the CDA, along with the spirit of how we stand in it. This is about self-esteem, freedom of choice and human rights. The explanation given by Mr Van Haga at Pauw and in De Telegraaf runs counter to the CDA's view. That is why we have responded with an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u116	Thank you. You said you were at the end of your speech. So I would like to give the floor to Mr Amhaouch for his contribution, again on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u117	Mr. Chairman. The CDA speaks with two faces. You can interpret that in different ways, but we try to speak with one voice. Mr. Chairman. Trade relations and multilateral relations change. Especially the changed relationship of the US forces us to make choices and take initiative. On the other hand, there are investments by China in the European economy and infrastructure that have an impact on the resilience of our economy. In addition, digitalization changes the markets and reduces them to the world. These developments offer the Dutch economy opportunities and risks, which need to be properly mapped and on the basis of which policies can be adapted. Can such risk analysis be part of the Spring paper, so that we can make use of it next year in the budget? The CDA stands for fair trade, fair free trade. By concluding trade agreements, we can bring our own high standards to the world. It is also important to deepen the relationship between Europe and Africa. There is a great economic potential in the connectivity of the European and African markets. Africa, of which large parts are French and English-speaking, is strongly linked to several European countries due to its history. Connecting the African market to the European market will improve the African economy and strengthen European competitiveness vis-à-vis China. China lays a railway line from Beijing to Düsseldorf. Europe must work for a contiguous infrastructure between Amsterdam and Cape Town. The Netherlands, with a strong position on innovation, should therefore support the proposals of the European Commission and Germany and actively contribute to the development of a strong, economical, equal partnership between Europe and Africa. I would like a response from the Minister to the question of the opportunities for the Netherlands in an economic partnership between Europe and Africa. What steps are being taken on this? Mr. Chairman. Trade agreements must be promoted and measured more widely in order to increase the benefits of our companies. The postal network needs to be strengthened with economic attachés. Economic diplomacy is an important key concept for the CDA. In addition to the effective use of resources, the strengthening of economic and diplomatic relations is an important priority. In a changing geopolitics, this can be a success factor for a small country like the Netherlands. The CDA has already tabled a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u118	We have just heard from Mr Amhaouch about the importance of civil society. As you know, this theme is also close to our heart. We have tabled an amendment calling for a strengthening of the imvo-diplomacy, to strengthen civil society in countries where we are stepping up the trade relationship and to allow it to go hand in hand, including those two faces, with a strong imvo-policy, including from our posts. I am very curious to see what Mr Amhaouch and the CDA are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u119	I'll get back to that in my input under the heading imvo. Could you wait for that? I can do that now, but I prefer to refer to it. I shall come back to that in detail. Perhaps Mrs Van den Hul will be allowed to ask that question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u120	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u121	The budget should clearly show how the Minister can step up trade policy when it generates more economic profits, taking into account economic opportunities to realise societal challenges worldwide. The use of human resources must be made more flexible in order to respond to opportunities in different markets. The initiatives of the Minister and her ministry on trade are good but need to be sharper. The world is moving and requires chess on different plates. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister also focuses more on opportunities for the internationalisation of SMEs. This is mainly about providing information and supporting small businesses to gain access to markets. The CDA would like the Minister's commitment to organise SME support per region in the Netherlands. Then use trade as a means of achieving OS targets. The CDA is convinced that the commitment to fair trade and business has an increasing impact than traditional aid. Countries are developing and demand for trade and activity is increasing. The Netherlands has excellent expertise and a strong ecosystem in many areas. These must be used to open and connect the markets. Providing economic perspective often involves practical opportunities, such as supporting youth initiatives, using new technologies such as internet banking or access to insurance. How can the Minister improve such support? Then the start-ups. During a working visit by the BuHa-OS committee, we visited the Smart Agri-Food Innovation Hub at Berytech Agrytech in Beirut, Lebanon last year. I was very impressed. In addition to the measurable impact of the programme, it gives hope and energy to promising young people with good and smart ideas. The program is known at all universities in Lebanon and does a lot of outreach through events and social media. Furthermore, strong connections have been made with Dutch ecosystems such as Wageningen University and Foodvalley. For a period of three years, from 2017 to 2019, the Netherlands has allocated €3 million to the agri-programme. The CDA wants this programme to serve as an example for launching new initiatives in other countries in the designated focus regions. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. Then for Mrs Van den Hul, and also for others of course: imvo. Social responsibility is more than the conclusion of agreements. I assess companies not on the basis of quantity, but on the basis of quality and impact. Best practices should give rise to whole sectors to follow the lead. The impact of one large company is much greater than that of many small companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u122	You see your time, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u123	Yes. I'm gonna finish up. So we should not force SMEs with all kinds of difficult rules, the impact of which is low, but let large businesses pave the way for small businesses. This is not a call to dismiss SMEs from responsibility, but rather a call to make them do the right things. We need to work together and work together in Europe to create a climate for more corporate social responsibility in third countries. I call on the Minister to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u124	Thank you. Mrs van den Hul had already asked a question, but she would like to ask a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u125	Yeah, I haven't really answered my question yet. How does the CDA view our proposal to strengthen imvo diplomacy in posts, precisely in order to ensure that the trade agenda is certainly accompanied by a solid imvo story? That is certainly important because we see Mrs Kuik just now said that civil society is under increasing pressure and that there are countries, such as Bangladesh, where trade union freedom is under pressure. At the same time, we see Dutch companies investing, importing and doing business in countries where civil society cannot operate freely. So how does the CDA view our proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u126	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u127	We've just had the opportunity to have that discussion. Mrs Diks talked about making demands from the Netherlands. A lot of countries in the world, I think that most of them aren't quite as big as the Netherlands. As a committee, we have visited Ethiopia, Uganda and Lebanon. Then you see that very nice things are done by Dutch business. Take the visit to Florensis. That is a beautiful Dutch company, a flower grower, which has 800 people working sustainably. So a lot of things happen on their own. To bet now on separate imvo-diplomats, as I hear now, is not our line. We are committed to economic diplomacy: how can we make an economic contribution in these countries? I like that. I say, and I think Mrs van den Hul said just now, that the 54 African countries are no longer the countries of twenty years ago. They're not all banana republics. Every country is also getting firmer. In that sense, I think it would also be good if we started thinking with the social field and with the NGOs about whether we could retrain people within these NGOs to do imvo, to make an economic contribution, so that they could develop their activities even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u128	We see in many countries that they are companies that are violating human rights. We see in many countries that it is companies that are bothering environmentalists. We see in many countries that they are companies that make sure that no living wage is paid. The same applies to the countries which Mr Amhaouch just mentioned. That is why it is so important to monitor such a healthy civil society and to ensure that it receives enough oxygen literally and figuratively, so that it can continue to do its job. That is why, in relation to what his colleague has just said, I would ask Mr Amhaouch to take a closer look at the proposals we are making to ensure that imvo is more than just a marketing talk, that it really cuts wood, that companies not only say that they think it is important but also really show that they care about human rights, the environment and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u129	Of the thousands of companies in Africa and other countries, you will always be able to identify companies that are not doing well. We've also seen companies doing well. I just mentioned a number of flower companies. We also saw Heineken. Heineken has also made mistakes in the past, but has also shown how it can be done: setting up a sustainable factory, with local products, with local barley, and training young people with perspective, for decent jobs, such as process operator. It doesn't have to be all over- and over-guided. That doesn't change the fact that we have to take imvo seriously. I think a lot of companies do that. The textile industry is leading the way. We also had a debate on this today. Is that enough of that Bangladesh deal? Companies have been able to solve 80% to 90% of all problems. There is still 10% to 15% to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u130	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u131	So I think we're doing a lot in there. Of course, I want to focus on imvo, but more on creating jobs in those countries, because that has helped the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u132	I think even I can agree to that last sentence. But I actually wanted to go back to imvo and the relationship with other countries. I paraphrase a little bit, but I think you just said that the impact of one company can sometimes be greater than that of a lot of little ones. In this context, can you reflect on the Dutch commitment and input to the soy corridor in Brazil, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u133	You mention the soy corridor. I'm a little more at home in the palm oil and the RSPO. You can see that Dutch companies and large companies such as Unilever only import RSPO palm oil. The Netherlands is indeed one of the largest palm oil importers. That is a good example of a company that takes palm oil from Indonesia or Malaysia and does so in a good way. Even the World Wildlife Fund is involved in this. But of course, there are always NGOs that say it's not good enough. That's what I've said in the Imvo-AO. But let's also look at what's going well. I would like to emphasise that. Big steps are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u134	Of course, it's always good to be optimistic. So is a party like GroenLinks. We too are optimistic. We also want to make an effort to change the world. You are now trying to express optimism about the deployment of a lot of Dutch companies, but it also leads to an enormous amount of damage being done abroad. I understand that the example of the soy corridor doesn't come out very well, because the Netherlands really jumps out quite negatively. You must be very optimistic if you still want to enjoy it with all the violations of nature and human rights and the violation of the rights of indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u135	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u136	And all the time Mr. Amhaouch comes up with the example of palm oil. Are you still convinced that the RSPO system is working?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u137	Firstly, the CDA is the party of hope and that is why I am optimistic. We can all get acidic, but I think the Netherlands is one of the leaders in terms of sustainable imports. Again, you can always comment on it. But I think we're doing really well. You can be proud as the Netherlands that you do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u138	You can be proud when Dutch companies do good things abroad. That is a party like GroenLinks. But let me say it a little louder, because it is a debate if, as Dutch companies, you cooperate in organizing a pubic behind which terrible things happen, from which great violations of nature and human rights arise, then that is not the variant I see for Dutch business. I'd rather work on a truly sustainable and honest world. So I would really like to call on you to review and think through this whole RSPO story, because it is more wrong than you seem to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u139	I think there is another separate debate on palm oil. The Netherlands also works with NGOs. I just mentioned the World Wildlife Fund, which, I think, also participates in the RSPO. It says it happens in a good way. Because of this certification we have just taken steps, we are also taking steps in Indonesia and Malaysia. Of course I can do better. I bet you can do better than that. Maybe there'll be a RSPO 2.0 later. It's possible. But don't get all sour and tell me that we didn't take those steps. There are a lot of countries that want to learn from us in this area. And because of that palm oil we can still put Zeeland Girl on our sandwich at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u140	Of course, we fully support your good ideas about improv agreements. We're all gonna do good things within these improv agreements. This varies from women's rights to climate issues to child labour to wearing a helmet at work. Do you think that there is also a priority to be placed in all the good things we are trying to do and in which, of course, I fully support you? If so, what is the priority in all the good things you're going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u141	Mr Van Haga must make what he means more explicit. Priority in what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u142	Well, in all the good things we're trying to accomplish in those covenants. Are there any things that you say you need to do first and that is less important?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u143	The most important due diligence in the imvo is that companies even know where their stuff comes from. We've talked about that before. Whether it is cocoa or textiles, we all want to prevent child labour here. Can you do that all the way from here? No. That is why I have often said to the Minister: we are doing imvo bottom-up and we also want to make agreements with countries. I've talked about cocoa a lot. We will also have to make agreements with Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana to prevent child labour. Those are certain goals, values, which we meet here together about things we want to avoid. I shall come back to the Dutch companies we have seen in Ethiopia and Uganda. They handle their drainage water properly. That's what they're reusing. They're not just making a mess of things. That image is being created. Let us not deny that in the past Dutch companies have done great damage, whether in the oil industry or elsewhere. We do not have to deny that, but let us also make positive use of the steps forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u144	I'm gonna try one last time anyway. I fully agree with you that it is all important, but you cannot deny that there is a certain priority in all the good things we do? You must, for example, consider the climate more important than wearing a helmet at work, and find child labour worse than anything else. You've thought about that, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u145	I've been doing imvo for three years now, so I think I have a pretty good view of what's going on. And I think it is also in the specific sectors where they can make their contribution. We talked about the textiles and we talked about the gold mining. Every company or sector needs to see where it can make its contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u146	Then let's take the test case of palm oil, with the two faces of the CDA so far. It's true: two spokesmen so two faces. So far I found Mrs. Kuik's face a better story to tell. Because palm oil is accompanied by the cap of very precious rainforest, which we need to stop climate change. Now the University of Queensland has done an extensive study on certification. Could that be a solution? They found that there were no significant differences in sustainability between certified and non-certified palm oil plantations. Is the CDA therefore at least prepared to say that this might not work very well and should we opt for an approach that will at least reduce the import of palm oil into the Netherlands and Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u147	First of all... In addition to any university research you take, you can always do another university research. You're gonna hit a good chord here with the certification. I've talked about that before. Certification says something, but not everything, and that will also go for RSPO. I don't know if you've read the book on Tony's Chocolonely. He tells us in that book about the certification of his chocolate and says: we do our best with local small farmers for sustainable cocoa, but we know that on the way maybe all those cocoa beans, sustainable and unsustainable, end up in one pile. A company makes a maximum effort to take steps. Does a certification like that mean anything to you? No, but I am confident that RSPO palm oil has a minimal base that you can assume. The World Wildlife Fund does agree and that is not the smallest organization. Again, that doesn't mean this is a terminal. I'm not saying that, but we do have something that works, which works. Of course you can say that it is not enough, or never enough, and that we have to stop with the whole palm oil, but we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u148	Then let's see if we can find a way out. Does the CDA fraction at least recognise that companies in the food angle see palm oil as a cheap filler? Does the CDA recognise that this replaces raw materials in products we eat? Take knäckebröd. It used to be just rye, water and a little salt. Now there are many variations of palm oil. That's not necessary, but it's in there because it's convenient for those companies. Is the CDA at least prepared to recognise that it is a filler in our food industry that is far from always needed? Of that we can say: shall we see how we can stop? This reduces the demand for palm oil and helps to preserve the rainforests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u149	If I pulled that line, I couldn't eat peanut butter anymore, because I don't know where the peanuts came from. With cocoa butter, I don't know if it's sustainable enough. I do not know whether sugar cane sugar involves certain people in certain circumstances. So if I go through Mrs. Old Hand's line, my sign's empty. Let's agree that everyone can eat and everyone can make choices. But let us make sure that the chains are sustainable, whether they are chocolate, palm oil or other things. Let's work on that together. I think the impo-convenant is a component. I keep repeating that imvo is more than just the covenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u150	We'll go to a very sad conclusion tonight. It started so nicely with Mrs. Kuik's contribution. But basically the CDA says that food companies can simply look for what suits them best. They can indeed replace peanuts with palm oil. You used to be able to eat peanut butter, because it was all peanuts and salt. And now there's palm oil in it. So the CDA says that that's fine, because that's the market model, the earning model. The CDA says we're gonna get to work with imvo and a little bit of those mosquito tables. As with the climate agreement, there is also a nature organisation at the table, but they are simply blown away by the big boys of industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u151	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u152	That is all we are trying to do to limit the damage caused by palm oil production. That's actually what the CDA is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u153	Between the words, Mrs Ouwehand says something I absolutely disagree with. I don't think that's right. It calls the imvo tables where trade unions, government and industry sit to make agreements for the food industry too, "mostribble tables." Call me a number of countries in Europe or in the world that sit at the table with those different parties and try to get the best out of it to make the chain more sustainable. What other countries have these tables?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u154	We are not going to ask each other questions, but I can see that Mrs Ouwehand wants to ask her eighth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u155	Well, the Netherlands, with the climate agreement. That's been polded off to these kinds of tables. We have to conclude that the vested interests have a very high profile and that the civil society organisations that actually do the work that the cabinet has to do, namely stand for the public interest, are simply blown away. LTO says that we have won the climate agreement, so the negotiations at the climate tables. That's evidence number one. And it's not just about palm oil. You can see it in soy, too. There's Monsanto. That company has very important interests in the continuation of genetically engineered soya that is poisoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u156	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u157	You can guess who wins at the table with nature organizations. The conclusion is that the CDA wants to help people when they are in need, and I appreciate that, but also that the CDA looks away from the problems caused by climate change, human rights violations and the use of poison on the plantations. I can tell Mr Amhaouch and Mrs Kuik that so you don't hurry up and these people are not at all the worst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u158	Two things. I believe there has been a cabinet that has introduced a climate law, and that is this cabinet. So that's a very good basis to commit them to those goals. That's one. You are indeed talking about pesticides. We have beautiful companies in the Netherlands. We ran into Koppert Biological Systems again in Ethiopia and Uganda. These are innovative Dutch companies that are taking steps to get rid of the bad chemical pesticide; and in a biological way. You must be proud of that. Mrs. Ouwehand must be proud of that, mustn't she? The bees are used for... You must be really proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u159	Thank you. Your point is clear and you are not going to challenge Mrs Ouwehand any more. Mrs Van den Hul, your eighth question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u160	I was triggered while Mr. Amhaouch walks back through something he said. He said: we are the party of hope. Now I myself am by nature an optimist, so I like to go along with that, but the figures sketch a different picture. We see that only 30% of all companies comply with the OECD guidelines. We can see that there is still a very big difference between what people in the south get paid, which is often absolutely impossible to get by, and the price we pay here for our food and for our clothes. There's a huge rift there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u161	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u162	So I also hope that we can be optimistic, but the reality is different. That calls for realism. Does Mr Amhaouch agree with us? What is he going to do to ensure that these companies finally comply with the OECD guidelines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u163	I would ask Mrs van den Hul to be patient. If you compare the continent of Africa with South Asia a x-number of years ago, they were both very bad for them, South Asia has made progress with decent economic growth, bringing millions of people out of poverty. Growth there is between 60% and 70% and people benefit from it. Unfortunately, what happened in Asia failed in Africa. That is why the CDA is calling for attention to be given to this, so that we can take that step. By creating these economic developments, by creating jobs, you're getting those people out of poverty. And of course you can refer to OECD guidelines, which I believe everyone is committed to. If that is 35% today, then we will have to take steps to get that higher and higher, but I think that because of the strength of the Netherlands, because of our expertise, there is a prospect of a contribution that will also bring African people out of poverty, with good jobs and good jobs. The Netherlands can make a huge contribution to this with innovative strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u164	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. That means that I would like to give Mrs Karabulut the floor. It speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u165	Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing there's money coming in for emergency aid. This need is high, very high because of the climate problem, permanent war, inequality and failing world leaders. The capitalist system beeps and cracks on all sides. The result is that more than 65 million people are displaced and drifting. They have no home, are on the run: the modern slave. Does the Minister agree with us that the system of free trade with flash capital, unfair taxes, fossil industry and militarised foreign policy will have to change if we are to achieve sustainable development? Why do countries, including the Netherlands, still supply arms to the Middle East, which has a shortage of everything except arms? Why does the Netherlands support the permanent war that brings humanity more insecurity? Why contribute to the insecurity, an arms race and millions of deaths and refugees? Why are multinationals, billionaires and wealthy elites being used, while poverty reduction is the goal? Yemen is currently facing enormous famine as a result of a dirty war. Saudi Arabia is bombing on its own and the arms industry is making a huge profit. That's gotta stop. Is the Minister in favour of a Dutch arms embargo? Did you know that six of the largest life insurance companies in the Netherlands invest in the five largest arms producers in the world, which supply Saudi Arabia among others? It is EUR 3.6 billion. It seems to be no problem for these insurers to invest in this industry which is co-responsible for the greatest crisis of all time. What are the possibilities of banning these investments? Will the Minister at least talk to these insurers to discourage investment? Does the Minister share my view that I already know the answer, but do I ask that human rights be universal and should therefore also be binding on multinationals? An example of how a Dutch multinational, Shell, contributes to increasing inequality, environmental pollution and human rights violations, I see in Ogoniland, Nigeria. Shell not only behaves in Groningen as godfather of big money, here in the Chamber, but also in Nigeria. They have put the profits into their own pockets, the local population bears the costs, whole parts have been completely depopulated and fishing and agriculture have become impossible. Babies die twice before. Has the Minister already put the fist on the table at Shell that the company should really clean up the area and that the company should put money in the fund for that purpose? I'd like an answer. Mr. Chairman. Because this cabinet is committed to combating the root causes of forced migration, I imagine a woman from Ogoniland, Nigeria. It can no longer survive on its own land, which is not being cleaned up and for which it is not adequately compensated. She decides to leave. What perspective is there for her? Employment has been created by Heineken. She can work as a promotional girl and be exploited. She can migrate to Nigeria, where inequality is so great that the richest man gets enough interest on his ability to bring 2 million people out of extreme poverty. Corruption is still a major problem. One of the solutions would be a fair tax system. Is it true that Nigeria has signed the convention against international tax avoidance? And is it true that that treaty does not provide a solution to the existing possibilities for tax avoidance in the existing treaties, such as the low withholding taxes, which means that little tax is paid in poor countries? This is how people make money and poor countries miss money. I told you, Africa is a rich continent, but raw materials and profits are being extracted from it. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that this is no longer the case in future treaties? Is the Minister prepared to conclude fair agreements without imposing a system of free trade and hardly taxes on multinationals? If Africa keeps its wealth, can develop itself and get the chance to do local business, it can also feed more mouths. Not the importance of the e.g. the Netherlands, the e.g. Germany or whatever which should be at the forefront, but the importance of people, in this case Nigerians. I'd like a response. My wife from Ogoniland can migrate within Africa, as most people do, or she can go to the Netherlands where more billionaires live than ever, but she starts her journey in Niger, our new neighbour according to Minister Blok. Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world. Strict legislation is now tackling trafficking in human beings at the request of the EU. But the question is, why are people dependent on smuggling? Now that that has been wiped out, the question is what prospects they have to avoid fleeing their country. How is it that a rich continent like Africa is too poor for African peoples? Is the short-term focus on the ring of instability and deals of European leaders with African countries and sometimes with African dictatorships not a dead end, a road that contributes to fortress Europe in the short term, but which still does not regulate the right to a dignified existence in its own country? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This lady can also get to Libya when she flees, of which we all know the horror stories. If it succeeds in crossing Libya, there is a good chance that the Libyan Coast Guard, funded by EU funds, will return it to terrible conditions. The success story is now often that migrants from Libya are helped to return to the country of origin, back to Nigeria, from our tax money again, but what is waiting for her there? Most likely she was raped, she suffered hunger and pain and she still returns to Nigeria without a future perspective. According to the Minister, what agreements should be made with African countries so that people can build a future in their own country? There is a lot of talk about Africa, Mr. Van Haga wants African women to have fewer children, but where is the African himself, where are the people themselves in this whole story?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u166	That gives Mr Voordewind the opportunity to ask a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u167	I have listened to it for a moment, but I hear 'fortress Europe' and 'Europe's ridiculous policy towards Africa'. The Netherlands would do too little, but has Mrs Karabulut read the budget correctly, because we are allocating an additional 2 billion in this period of government to combat precisely those root causes of migration? Minister Blok has just been to Niger and it means that extra investment will be made in the source countries from which the migrants are now coming. What does this have to do with fortress Europe, I ask Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u168	I also said at the beginning that I welcome the additional resources for emergency aid, investment in development and a contribution to the poor countries. I support that. What I am concerned about is that the Dutch policy is aimed on the one hand at removing the root causes of forced migration and, on the other hand, at contributing to these root causes. You know as well as I do that foreign policy and defence policy are decisive in this matter. That's one side of the story. I mentioned the permanent war that has put a lot of people on the run. The other side of the story is something I have reservations about and questions about. That is that I see more and more resources disappearing in militarisation and/or stopping. At the moment, I am completely unclear as to what the funds we provide through the EU for so-called aid to Africa... My question is: what is actually being done about the root causes? Stopping isn't fighting root causes, and that's what my questions are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u169	Thank you. Your point is clear. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u170	Mrs Karabulut talks about the causes and wars that would sustain the Netherlands, but she has advocated here an arms embargo towards Saudi Arabia. I think we had that debate with the Foreign Minister last week. Mrs Karabulut then heard that the coalition parties and even the Foreign Minister say: yes, we are going to argue that in the Security Council. So that's where we're doing our part. Mrs Karabulut knows that we are releasing money, extra money, for the reception of refugees and displaced persons in Yemen. We're trying to get the ports back free so we can get food in. So I ask Mrs Karabulut once again: where is the cabinet doing it wrong now? We're on the same side! You have a lot of criticism. You are critical of Europe and, to some extent, I agree with it. On the other hand, Europe is also trying to regulate migration and stop irregular migration. That's where you're on the same side, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u171	I'm on a number of points... You're right, we hang out. We certainly do, but an arms embargo in the UN context is something other than an arms embargo from the Netherlands. Goods are still going to the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u172	It's much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u173	Sure, but we don't have that plea for each other yet. But we are dealing with the Netherlands ourselves. I'd appreciate it if you'd back that up. Of course good things are happening! And this minister is doing good, too. And the intention is undoubtedly also good, but my criticism is that we always have to do it! If we say that we want to prevent people from fleeing, we want to go after the Americans and NATO. You know as well as I do that, despite all our good intentions, we are participating in wars that have been going on in the Middle East for 17 years now. And is it gonna be safer there? No! What we do see is that people are coming this way. I pointed that out, and we think differently about that. Two. The further militarisation of foreign policy, on the one hand through permanent warfare and, on the other hand, the pressure of NATO, and the new cold war, mean that a great deal of money goes to militarisation, including in Europe. I do not think that is the way to combat poverty and inequality. Three. If we look at the global system and also at the role of Dutch multinationals in it and to the Netherlands as a tax haven to evade taxes, then that can be even better. Four. Europe undoubtedly has good intentions, but I really do not have any keenness, Mr Voordewind, in how we are going to ensure that we match the needs and wealth and development of Africa. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u174	Thank you. I say again: an interrupting question is short, but the answer may also be brief and concise. Mr Voordewind, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u175	As far as I am concerned, the SP is perfectly entitled to self-sustainment and to blame all wars on the West, but I would remind Mrs Karabulut that in Syria, for example, the West did not intervene. That's where the people fled from the terrible bombs of Assad. That is not the fault of the West. I remind Mrs Karabulut that there was the 9/11 attack in America, where more than 2,000 people died in the Twin Towers, and that Al-Qaeda was behind it. The Taliban kept Al Qaeda under control, and the international community had to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u176	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u177	On the one hand, these have been wars that we have not waged and, on the other hand, they have forced wars to combat terrorism. Mrs Karabulut can therefore blame the West for anything, but it is not the case in Syria, and in Iraq we had to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u178	The Iraq war has been an illegal war based on lies. Afghanistan? Afghanistan has indeed started a war and we are still there. Al Qaeda is there, the Taliban are more powerful than ever and the country is more unsafe than ever. I just happened to speak to an Afghan last week. Girls, I hear Mr Voordewind say. You know what this Afghan pissed off about? Of this argument, of the fact that, with the argument that we are going to save girls, we have been participating in a permanent war on the part of the Americans for 17 years, in which things are completely different from girls' safety. That, Mr Voordewind, has not brought us more security, has brought us not less terrorism, but more terrorism and more insecurity. And yes, we differ fundamentally on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u179	Mrs. Karabulut...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u180	You also know, like me, that in Syria there are also groups supported under the guise of a clean war and of non-lethal assistance...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u181	Mrs Karabulut, may I ask you to continue your speech? And you speak through the chairman. I ask Mr Voordewind to do the same. But continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u182	Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with my final questions. Part of the development cooperation money is guarding Europe's external border, but in what way does stopping people actually mean development? Does the Minister agree with us that development funds should be used for development, not for border control? What about the contribution we are making to the EU? With the OS money, so-called root causes are addressed, but how do we know if this has the desired effect? What are the conditions for these efforts? Is the Netherlands seeking to join, for example, existing initiatives involving civil society and the countries themselves? Mr. Chairman. Civil society is under attack everywhere. I would therefore ask that we continue to support the Shelter City in Costa Rica and the CICIG mechanism in Guatemala. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u183	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Alkaya. You too speak on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am focusing mainly on the trading part of this budget. Dutch companies import many products and export many products. The volume of trade in relation to our entire economy is among the highest in the world. There are also many Dutch companies that invest in all kinds of business abroad, in infrastructure projects or in agriculture, and this makes a lot of money. As a socialist, I am, of course, keen to see that money shared fairly with the workers who ultimately do all the work. But that's not my only job. I also think it is a task of all of us to ensure that the tens of thousands of Dutch companies operating internationally from the Netherlands are also controlled in other countries. Even though legal standards in many countries are not as strict as they are here, we should be able to expect from our companies that they do not deal differently with employees in Bangladesh than with employees here, and do not deal differently with nature in Brazil, for example, than with nature here in the Netherlands. Fair trade means, as far as the SP is concerned, that efforts to minimise production costs must never be at the expense of decent wages, good working conditions and nature. This must not happen here, nor must it be done elsewhere in the world. The present budget confirms the policy of this cabinet in the field of trade, and that hardly deviates from that of the previous Cabinets, and so justice and fair trade are still far from being sought. For example, measures for corporate social responsibility remain voluntary and the number of companies operating under the OECD guidelines remains low. The government wants 90% of large companies to sign up to the OECD guidelines and act responsibly in 2023. But it is unclear how this indicator will be monitored. Without supervision, this ambition is not worth much. So I ask the Minister which organization is going to check whether the companies agree to the OECD guidelines and how they do so. More importantly, are we going to check that they comply with these guidelines? At this point, I am considering a motion. Fair trade doesn't happen on its own. Products are still produced in unsafe factories. People are still being driven from their land and nature is being damaged. And still the far too low wages for many companies are the only reason why they produce abroad and not in the Netherlands. Is it not time to put a stop to this kind of practice? Because as long as it's cheaper and legal to pollute instead of sustainable enterprise, and as long as it's cheaper and legal to expel people from their country instead of respecting their rights, and as long as it's cheaper and legal to exploit workers, not pay liveable wages and let them work in unsafe factories instead of offering them decent work, it's naive to think that multinationals will make themselves decent. In the end, they are only concerned with one thing, and that is profit maximization. So the Minister for Trade in a country like the Netherlands with many multinationals has a global responsibility. A responsibility to lead the way and set a good example in the world. A responsibility to oppose unfair trade agreements with countries where labour standards and environmental standards are still very different from those with us. And a responsibility to keep our companies that are already operating in such countries to their obligations, to the standards and to the laws that we have fought so hard here. Is the Minister prepared to shoulder this responsibility despite this conservative budget and the right-wing government agreement? Mr. Chairman. That this cabinet will go into the history books as a servant of big business, that's for sure. The only question is whether this minister wants to be an exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u185	Thank you. Another question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u186	Very big words from Mr Alkaya of the SP. I know the SP always stands for jobs. You always want to create jobs, even for your supporters. People want to work. How do you want to create the jobs for your supporters? You are talking about our multinationals and you are not making any nuance at all; you are wiping them all off the table; they are all doing badly. Then you ask the Minister how she intends to achieve certain things. How does the SP want to create jobs for people here in the Netherlands? Today there was news again: KPN probably wants to send out 1,500 people. They're getting fired for automation. How does the SP want to create the tracks at the front and not at the back of the gate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u187	That's a very broad question. Let me confine myself in my reply to the part we are talking about today, namely the international part, the trading part. The cabinet often talks about the locational climate. Let me start with the things we can invest in, which not only make the location climate more attractive to these multinationals, but also to the citizens. I call it improving education and infrastructure. These are all things that are good for the companies, things that companies take into account when they think about where they're going to set up an establishment. But perhaps an even more important point when we talk about jobs is this. If we allow companies to produce abroad for nothing and not to take into account the environmental standards we know here, not to pay the workers a living wage and not to guarantee safe factories, then we create unfair competition and then make it more attractive not to produce here in the Netherlands, in a safe and sustainable way, but to move those factories abroad, or to do business with companies and factories that are abroad, and to import cheap products. That's just how you destroy jobs. That is what we have seen in recent years with the neoliberal cabinet: jobs have been destroyed. We have become the service providers of the world and the industry has been completely wiped out. That only gets worse if it's up to this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u188	Thank you. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u189	If I went through your reasoning, Mr. Alkaya, I'd think the SP would be the most selfish party. You say that all jobs must go back to the Netherlands: here we are going to make everything. Actually, you say about creating jobs, whether in Africa or in Asia, we shouldn't do anything. As a small country, as a trading country, the Netherlands exports a lot and creates jobs on all sides. We were just talking about it. Your colleague, Mrs Karabulut, was just talking about helping people out of poverty. Isn't that what you do by creating jobs? Then you are not going to say that we are not going to trade with any country, that we are not going to trade with any country, that we are not going to trade with any country, that we are not going to trade with any country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u190	I have already stressed that we are in favour of fair trade. If a Dutch company sits in a particular country to produce there, because it can be more efficient or better, and then brings the products to the Netherlands, then there is nothing wrong with that, if it respects working conditions and environmental standards. Maybe the laws there aren't so strict at all. However, I believe that our companies must comply with this. I also do not mind if companies sit there and deal with the people in a decent way, to serve the local market. This is also sustainable in order to get as close to that market as possible. But what we should not have are companies that could actually produce more efficiently, better and more sustainable in the Netherlands and operate the Dutch market, but settle elsewhere because it is cheaper to employ exploited workers abroad and not to respect environmental standards. That's what happens when we get our clothes made in unsafe factories in Bangladesh. I'm against that. That is economic growth that they are not waiting for in Bangladesh either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u191	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bouali. He is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u192	Mr. Chairman. Development cooperation works. Development cooperation has brought millions of people out of extreme poverty, significantly reduced child labour and given vulnerable people rights. All these people were given a chance for a better life and their children for a better future. At the same time, there are challenges. They are still immense, because almost half of the world's population lives below the poverty line of $5.50 a day. Tens of thousands of children in Yemen are starving. Almost 70 million people are on the run. Climate change leads to extreme weather conditions worldwide. Human rights are under pressure and civil society, as we hear more and more, is silenced in many countries. Mr. Chairman. That is why my group is so pleased with the considerable investment made by this cabinet. After years of austerity, development cooperation is back on track and the government invests over 2.6 billion euros in four years. The road to the international 0.7% standard has also been found again. D66 shares the commitment and ambition of the Minister, whom she has finely expressed in her policy paper. The SDGs are the guiding principle. These objectives together constitute a universal agenda for international cooperation. I myself pay particular attention to SDG 5, equality for men and women. After all, we live in a world where the world news is literally within reach. A world in which you take the train to Berlin as easily as the plane to Beijing. A world in which we import cars from Germany as easily as from the United States. The rapid developments in this world offer enormous opportunities and opportunities, but also create challenges. Old trusted alliances are under pressure. The United Kingdom is heading for a Brexit. Popular leaders at home and abroad think they can close the borders and build walls. In that world, D66 is committed to increasing the earning capacity of the Netherlands. In that world, D66 wants the EU to act together as one block outside. In that world, D66 also wants to offer an extended hand to our international partners. Not to seek out the conflict, but to connect. Not to fight, but to have the conversation. Not retreat behind the dikes, but trade and promote our values. This means concluding specific trade agreements, for example, investing in international institutions and supporting the Dutch business community if they want to do business across the border. This also means preventing harmful side effects of production and trade, i.e. sustainable trade chains, combating environmental pollution and combating child labour. Mr. Chairman. I've had the privilege of studying at the Europa College. I have always been a supporter of the European ideal, but I have been more active since that training. This European ideal also includes responsibility for the rest of the world. To people who don't have it as well as we do. I myself am thinking primarily of the southern neighbours of the European Union, the MENA region. When I was a young student at that Europa College, the then Rector Otto von der Gablenz once addressed me. He said you're gonna build bridges between Europe and North Africa, that's why you're here. And that was right. From that point of view, I am also here today in the House of Representatives. My commitment in politics is to build bridges, as I did when I was a diplomat before I was in the Chamber. My bet and my party's bet isn't dividing, it's connecting. I oppose populism, polarization and the messages of presidents like Trump, Erdogan and Bolsonaro. Me and my party are committed to equality of opportunity for everyone, wherever your cradle stands, whatever your origins and whatever language you speak. Everyone has the right to education, because education is the key to development. Everyone has the right to a decent life. We need to make an extra commitment to vulnerable groups that are systematically oppressed or exploited. That is why I am always personally very keen on women's rights, in particular the position of young girls and the right to be completely free. Mr. Chairman. Now that you know my motivation and the opportunities and challenges I see in the foreign trade and development cooperation policy area, I would like to go into more detail about the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u193	Before you do that, Mr Kuzu has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u194	Mr Bouali is therefore opposed to populist leaders, but I have not yet heard how he acts against populist coalition partners. So I was wondering what his position was on Mr Van Haga's plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u195	Mr Kuzu has seen very well that we have made a new proposal, together with my colleague Anne Kuik from the CDA. That's what she said before. In this we give extra vision, how we look at contraception, for example. We have put women's rights and women's rights at the heart of this. We have presented that now, so that is my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u196	That's what I've been able to see. In the newspaper, a VVD spokesperson says: we take a great deal of distance. I would also like to challenge Mr Bouali to distance himself from Mr Van Haga's proposal. I have seen your own amendments, but how are you going to distance yourself from Mr Van Haga's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u197	I have just indicated that we have come up with a completely different proposal, in which we have made it very clear where the interests lie and where the accents lie, namely that girls and women can make their own choices. There's just another proposal. That seems to me to be a very clear mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u198	I still think it's anointing words. On the one hand, use this stage to indicate: I, Mr Bouali of D66, take great distance from world leaders who divide and are populist and so on. But your own coalition partner would not dare to speak and you would hide behind texts such as: we have tabled our own amendment. That's what the D66 people buy, and that's what the people who want to appeal to Mr Bouali don't buy at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u199	I didn't hear a question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u200	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg for her question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u201	I hear Mr Bouali say that he has made a completely different proposal, together with Mrs Kuik. I am looking at his amendment and the amendment under which only Mr Van Haga now stands, No. 22 and No. 14. But that's exactly the same amendment, isn't it? What's the difference? Or is it just that you don't want to be on one list with Mr Van Haga anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u202	No, that's not the point. If you are able to read correctly, I will take you with me. You will see that there are indeed very clear differences of emphasis. We have made it very clear where we stand with regard to contraception. We want to put the role of girls and women at the heart of this. Freedom of choice is a very important point. Moreover, we do not want this to be at the expense of education, education, vaccination and that sort of thing. So that's all very clearly in it, and you probably read it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u203	Yes, there are a few rules in the explanatory statement. That is true, but you could have just said that orally here in your speech: well, the explanation was not entirely ours, but the proposal is exactly the same. I can enjoy such a fratricide within the coalition. Very amusing. But I have a question for Mr Bouali. Isn't it common knowledge that VVDs express everything in money and in return? Even our prime minister controls the Netherlands as an annoying interim manager. You knew what you were getting into when you joined a coalition with the VVD, didn't you? Where is D66's famous tolerance for the cultural differences with the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u204	I just helped you read the play. I'll help you listen one more time. So it is true that there are differences. I just mentioned it. We pay particular attention to this equality of opportunity for young women and girls, and it is not at the expense of education, vaccination and health. So that seems very clear to me. Shall I continue, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u205	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u206	I indicated that I wanted to go into more detail about the content. I have a number of questions on a series of subjects. Firstly, I have tabled a number of amendments. The first amendment, in part No. 18, is about the position of women and especially young girls. The figures on the number of child marriages are shocking. If we do nothing, 134 million girls will be married out in the period 2018-2030. Together with the CDA, I want to fight this. We want to support organisations like Save the Children and UNICEF and an alliance like Girls Not Brides. Much remains to be done, particularly in countries such as Mali, Niger and Nigeria. Education is the recipe for development and progress, so studies show. I look forward to the Minister's appreciation of this amendment. Mr. Chairman. My second amendment, on the part of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15, it's about the assistant expert program. This will help both Dutch young people and young people from developing countries. Thanks to their expertise, they can contribute to international challenges and work with international organisations. The Netherlands benefits greatly from a strong international structure. That's why D66 wants extra bets on that. Here too, I look forward to a response from the Minister. My next question is about climate. Thanks to the coalition agreement, extra money has been made available for a better climate. I am therefore very pleased that the VVD has tabled amendments on this very point. I wholeheartedly support that. As far as D66 is concerned, we should focus on climate adaptation and mitigation in the low-income countries. This money could also be used to combat deforestation, for example by focusing on renewable energy. Does the Minister share this? Does it see the possibility of linking climate improvement and combating deforestation? In this context, I would also mention France's initiative to boycott imports of soya, palm oil, wood and other products related to deforestation from 2030 onwards. How does the Minister judge that? Is it prepared to follow this example and work together with European partners? Yemen is experiencing one of the biggest humanitarian crises of the day. With all of us, the images of emaciated children are burned to the retina. Since the outbreak of the war, 25,000 children have died of hunger. I thank the Minister for the extra emergency aid she has given to Yemen. Can it comment on the use of the money and the Dutch commitment to end the famine in Yemen? And then another place where there is a tragedy: Myanmar, which has recently been visited by the Minister. She had a difficult conversation with those involved about the drama there. Meanwhile, the repatriation of the Rohingya seems to be failing. Can the Minister take the Chamber with her in her findings on that trip? What's the next step? What can we do as the Netherlands and what can the EU do? Another country that always has my attention, as the loyal listener knows, is Colombia. The Colombians are working incredibly hard to put the difficult past behind them, but they have a new problem on the agenda: the reception of more than one million refugees from Venezuela. That puts enormous pressure on the facilities. The Prime Minister is on a trade mission to Colombia today. I encourage those kinds of visits, too. It would be nice if the Prime Minister in Colombia could also discuss the issue of refugee reception and make a gesture to the Colombians, possibly with his European partners. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Women's rights: it is a broad concept. We talk about that a lot here in the Chamber. It is about combating child marriages, strengthening women's leadership and increasing the role of women in politics, as well as economic independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u207	Before you proceed, a question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u208	As far as women's rights are concerned, I, together with Mr Van den Hul of the PvdA, have prepared an amendment to increase humanitarian aid for the Rohingya refugees in the camps in Bangladesh. When I listen to Mr Bouali's speech, I can count on his support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u209	I look forward to the amendment. I'll look into it. We await the Minister's response and then we will hear my response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u210	That amendment has been circulated. I know Mr Bouali as a hard-working MP. I think he has certainly also studied the amendment, but just to briefly give it its content: EUR 2 million for helping refugees in Bangladesh. Of this 2 million, 1 million will be devoted to improving the position of women and girls in refugee camps. The remaining 1 million, general aid, is for improving the position of Rohingya refugees in those camps. You've kept a wonderful story about the Rohingya. You're worried about that. Will you also get over the bridge by supporting this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u211	That is what you are asking Mr Bouali. It's through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u212	Yes, and not to the Minister, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u213	No, but that goes through the chairman. Thank you. Mr Bouali. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u214	Let me satisfy Mr Kuzu, because he wants some sort of qualification. I think it is a very nice proposal, but again, we have a lot of amendments here. I await the Minister's response. I think it's a nice proposal. We are waiting for the answer and we are going to look at the overall package of the amendments that are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u215	Mr. Kuzu, we agreed before this debate... You want the last question? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u216	I welcome Mr Bouali's sympathetic attitude towards the amendment, but in order to be able to make a judgment, he does not necessarily have to get permission from the Minister. He can just say, "I think it is a nice amendment and I will go along with it?'. In this case, Minister Kaag's permission is not necessary, I ask you to ask Mr Bouali, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u217	You, like the PVV, have a little trouble listening, I think. I didn't say I wanted to ask permission. There are many amendments. We're looking at them. Once again, I think it is a nice amendment. If the Minister has replied, we'll look at the overall picture and I'll give you an opinion. Mr. Chairman. We were talking about women's rights. I also wanted to mention the importance of strengthening sexual and reproductive health and rights. At least that means that women are also in charge of their own bodies. That ambition is explicitly stated in the Minister's note. That is why I am surprised that the budget for SRGR is falling in the coming years. Does the Minister agree with me that this is a strange and worrying development? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the Global Fund, which is working hard to eradicate AIDS, TB and malaria. I understand that the Dutch contribution to that Global Fund for the period after 2019 is uncertain. That's right, I'll ask the Minister. Does the Minister intend to continue this contribution? Madam President. I'm gonna finish up. Development cooperation can combat poverty, eradicate hunger and promote women's rights. Trade enables us to achieve growth, as well as more jobs, prosperity and social development. My group therefore welcomes the extra resources from the coalition agreement and the unbridled commitment of this minister. Together with partners at home and abroad, we can help the world a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u218	I see Mrs Ouwehand standing, but we had agreed eight questions, and that is what you are already dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u219	Then Mr Bouali is lucky.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u220	Thank you, I say in the direction of Mr Bouali. Then I give Mrs Van den Hul the opportunity to speak. Mrs van den Hul speaks on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u221	Mr. Chairman. Exactly a year ago, I started my contribution here about Amal from Yemen, a heroine who stands up for the rights of women and girls who, like her, were married out as children. The situation in her country has not improved since then. 18 million people now need immediate help, including a lot of women and children. That's more people than living here all over the Netherlands. Human dignity is also at serious risk elsewhere, in Myanmar, Venezuela, Congo, Burundi, South Sudan, the list goes on and on. More and more people are fleeing and inequality is growing worldwide and within countries, while space for activists is shrinking. Be sure of a fair world in which we strive for fair opportunities for everyone to make something of her or his life and in which we stand together for the most vulnerable, there is still a long way to go, but it can. It can be done if we share the profits of large companies fairly across the entire production chain, if we invest in food security, education, peace and security, if we invest in women and girls and as trade union leaders, human rights defenders and environmentalists. Worldwide, they are increasingly and further under pressure. Their freedom and space are restricted by repressive regimes and ruthless multinationals who do not see themselves constrained by laws and regulations, even until death. Last year hundreds of human rights activists, environmentalists, women's rights fighters and other heroes and heroines died who were not silenced. They deserve our support. From Burundi to Bangladesh, too often the role of the EU is reactive when activists get into trouble. Earlier, following my motion, the Minister agreed to explore the possibilities of a European alert system that would allow the EU to intervene more quickly if activists were put under pressure. Can the Minister give us an idea of the situation in the meantime? Mr. Chairman. Next year the programme Consensus and Consensus will be evaluated. The organisations involved have spent a lot of time building confidence in recent years. We ask the Minister to give these organisations the opportunity to build on this important work together with their partners when developing the new framework. I would also like to stress once again the importance that small, local organisations also have access to funding. This is certainly not always self-evident for organisations representing marginalised groups, such as lhbtis, people with disabilities or migrants. In this light, I would ask the Minister to pay particular attention to this in the phase-out focus countries, such as Indonesia, Benin and Uganda, where civil society is also under pressure. Mr. Chairman. Trade is frequently celebrated as a motor of development tonight and at other times in this house. But in practice it also often has a negative impact on people and the environment. If the counter forces in a country are under pressure, companies operating there must take an extra step as far as we are concerned. We want more attention to be paid to civil society at embassies and a better understanding of what we expect from a company operating in a country where there is no union freedom. I have therefore tabled an amendment on this point, together with DENK and GroenLinks, to strengthen our imvo diplomacy, because we often see that large multinationals in particular are failing to comply with local regulations. Corrupt and weak governments sometimes just let this happen. The EU then does too little to hold these companies accountable. At the same time, we still see too often that what we give with one hand, we take away with the other hand. Aid and trade need to be linked much more clearly in order to be truly effective. Fortunately, there are companies that show how it can be done. A number of frontrunners within the covenants even explicitly require a fairer playing field for a fairer world. But there are too many left behind who don't want to join. As far as we are concerned, where there is no will, there is a law. That is why the Van den Hul/Diks motion adopted called for a binding mechanism in trade agreements with regard to sustainability chapters. Only with better protection of labour and the environment can we be sure of fair trade. Can the Minister state what progress has been made on this? Mr. Chairman. The sustainable development goals, which have already been mentioned tonight, are an important point on our horizons. As far as we are concerned, these objectives are in good hands with this minister as a coordinating director. But we also see that sustainable development goals are not equally high on the agenda among all of her colleagues. We are therefore looking forward to the introduction of the SDG test, which should change that. Coherence in policy is crucial if we are to achieve these goals, including in our own country. That means looking critically at taxes, export credit insurance and climate objectives, and as the adoptive mother of SDG 5, I naturally add gender equality to that. Today, therefore, I launched the Gender Multi-Party Initiative with Dilan Yeşilgöz, because the world is not going well until we are all better. Mr. Chairman. Everyone must be sure of a roof over her or his head, of safety, of enough food and drink, but also of education and care, certainly vulnerable people. Never before have so many people been displaced and dependent on emergency aid. Sitting still or looking away is not an option as far as we're concerned. Many refugees are still living in inhuman conditions in detention centres and shelters. The Minister has previously expressed her horror at the situation in Libya. Have the people in the camp in question been brought to safety? This cabinet invests a lot in care in the region. How is the cabinet going to ensure that this reception is truly humane and meets the requirements of the UNHCR? Is there any indication of where this is already the case and where there are still shortcomings? Mr. Chairman. Women and girls are extra vulnerable. One in five are victims of sexual violence during their flight or shelter. Unfortunately, sexual violence is frequently used as a weapon of war. Yesterday we discussed this extensively with Nobel Prize winner Dr Mukwege. He advocated, among other things, a fund for victims of sexual violence. We wholeheartedly support his plea and hope that the Minister will do the same. We like to hear how she sees it. For it is precisely those whose trust has been violated in such a gruesome manner that deserve to be seen and heard, not only during the sixteen days against violence against women, not only when the Binnenhof colours orange; they always deserve recognition and satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u222	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Voordewind, who speaks on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "This is hell. Please get us out of here." A heart cry from the migrants we spoke recently as a committee on migration in the detention centres in Libya. The minister himself has been there. Will the Minister continue his efforts to close these terrible detention camps? I'd like a response. Mrs Van den Hul also mentioned it. Mr. Chairman. I also spoke to a boy from Nigeria. He told me that he had been traded as a slave in Libya, lost his friends on the flight in Niger and now hoped that he could return to Nigeria, away from the hell of Libya. Those are very poignant stories. And then there are currently 18 million people living on the verge of famine in Yemen. Colleagues have already said that 85,000 children are now starving. We are not talking about the many millions of displaced persons in Syria, Iraq, South Sudan and Somalia. In addition, there are many impacts of climate change that lead to increased drought, food shortages, floods and further migration for the poorest. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore right that this cabinet should give an extra EUR 2 billion to combat the misery in the world and to support the poorest in the world. To emphasise the emphasis on refugees, I have also tabled an amendment, on behalf of the CDA, D66 and the VVD, to increase the contribution to the Dutch Relief Alliance by EUR 10 million, precisely in order to strengthen reception in the region. Mr. Chairman. Civil society is indispensable for social cohesion, the creation of resilient societies and the promotion of minorities. Worldwide, the space for citizens and organisations committed to democracy, human rights and development is shrinking. The Netherlands has a good reputation for supporting these civil society organisations and civil society, but the Christian Union is keen to see this strengthened. How can the Minister achieve this in addition to the Consensus and Consensus programme? What further action will the Minister take to strengthen these civil society organisations and civil society organisations in developing countries in particular? Mr. Chairman. Then faith-based organizations, the so-called FBOs. They can play an important role in strengthening civil society. Working with local and national FBOs requires knowledge and sensitivity about different religions and the place that religion occupies in people's lives. The Minister regularly states that she is aware of this, but what is happening in practice? Is that knowledge and sensitivity sufficiently supported at the embassies and at the ministry? What more can the Minister do to increase this religious literary service at the embassies and the ministry? Is the Minister also prepared to increase the attention given to religion in training? I'd like a response. Mrs Kuik said that a motion from both of us was adopted at the end of last year. We call on the Minister to continue investing in the prospects for African youth by promoting employment projects and entrepreneurship. We explicitly ask the Minister what she will do when it comes to involving or involving civil society organisations in the implementation process. The new fund is called the Challenge Fund. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. We also believe that civil society can be better integrated with culture and religion in a country, which will make the approach more effective. Mr. Chairman. Then trade. Unfortunately, an estimated 152 million children worldwide work in child labour, of which 85 million work under very dangerous conditions. Child labour leads to a vicious circle of poverty and deprives children of the right to education. I have therefore tabled an amendment to give more money to the Child Labour Fund. A combined, area-oriented approach, we have talked about this before in the Chamber, with child labour-free zones, child labour-free production chains and education has produced very positive results in the past. This is also evident from the evaluation of the out of work and into school programme. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another subject that I regret to have to discuss over and over again: the perverse incentive in the Palestinian welfare systems for prisoners or relatives of prisoners or killed terrorists, who put an extra premium on making as many victims as possible. Despite the fact that this has been discussed so often and the Palestinian Authority has often been called upon to do so, the Palestinian Authority refuses to stop this system. For the sake of clarity, we are not opposed to benefits to prisoners or their family members, but rather if the amount of this benefit depends on the number of victims that have been made. It is high time for the Dutch cabinet to send a clear signal on this point and make a reduction if this perverse incentive does not stop next year. The Palestinian Authority spends about 7% of the total budget on these benefits. I therefore think it is not unreasonable that we should cut 7% of the contribution to the Palestinian Authority, which amounts to approximately 1.5 million. I am seriously considering tabling a motion in the second term together with my colleague from the VVD. I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u224	I see Mr Kuzu as well, but we have agreed on eight interruptions. You're already through that, Mr. Kuzu. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u225	That's too bad. That is the disadvantage if you are one of the later speakers in the queue; then the interruptions are gone. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The budget for development cooperation should actually be 0.7% of GDP. I'm afraid it's not. The Christian Union has the ambition to further grow this, but not only the Christian Union, but also this minister has previously expressed his desire to restore the link with the 0.7%. We have just had the debate here on the defence budget with the Minister of Defence. The Minister also expressed the ambition to grow to 2.0%, the NATO standard, when it comes to spending on Defence. I ask the Minister how she sees it. What is her ambition to possibly take the first steps to grow back to that 0.7% during this cabinet period? What can she do for that? Mr President, so much for my first contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u226	Thank you. You have another question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u227	The Christian Union is a party that has never made it a secret that if it is needed it also supports laws to force companies to take social responsibility. The coalition agreement doesn't rule that out either. It states that if the evaluation in 2019 indicates that the covenant policy has not worked and that therefore not enough companies have taken socially responsible action, compelling measures can be followed. Would Mr Voordewind not think it wise to start working on that now, to sort it out, and to prepare legal measures already, so that we do not have to wait any longer after the 2019 evaluation, and then step out of the cabinet in which she has not been able to deliver a promise, namely legal measures for companies to take social responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u228	Mr Alkaya knows that we would rather have made such a law yesterday than today. However, in the coalition, we agreed that we should first carry out an evaluation and then consider whether, as stated in the coalition agreement, binding legal measures will be followed. But Mr Alkaya is right: thinking does not have to stand still. That is not the case with us either. We are specifically looking at what such a law might look like. We already have the examples of France and to a lesser extent of England. Those laws have already been made. In fact, that law has already entered into force in France. We can't see what the effects are yet. In America, they have a similar law. We are therefore busy to see which elements should be included in such a law. I know that Mr Alkaya likes to be involved in this process. So it may also be that we come to a note, 'in preparation for'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u229	I'm really glad to hear that. If Mr Voordewind says "we," I think he is talking about the Christian Union. But could we not send a message to the Minister together today or tomorrow: if the Christian Union and the SP are already doing so, would it not be wise if the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs had such legislation in preparation? There is a good chance that the evaluation will indeed show that only a small percentage of companies have taken social responsibility thanks to the agreements and that the majority of companies are still doing just as much as a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u230	I still assume that there are very smart people in the ministry, who are also not sitting still and who are probably still thinking about what to do after the evaluation. Anyway, that's not up to me. That's what the secretary's about. I would, of course, like to hear the Minister's answer to your question. But at least we Christian Union do not sit still. We are working to see which elements should be included in such a law. If there's any input from the Ministry for that, I'd love to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u231	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, who speaks on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u232	Thank you, Mr President. I'd already spilled it a little bit in my interruptions. The core of my story will be a statement from one of my favorite writers, Leo Tolstoy. He said, "Everyone thinks about changing the world, but hardly anyone thinks about changing themselves." That is often the key to changing the world for the better. First of all, I would like to join with all the fine words of many of my fellow Members, Mr President, in expressing my sincere satisfaction at the fact that development cooperation is working. I also found Mrs Kuik's contribution really inspiring: we have a moral duty to help. I very much agree with that. The Animal Party would like us to spend 1% of our gross national product on development cooperation, but the Minister knows that. So there is no doubt that the Minister really wants to do so where there is misery. Thank you also for the emergency aid to Yemen. We all feel so powerless. For God's sake, let's do what we can. I trust this minister: she actually does. But then it seems like a two-faced budget. On the one hand, we are trying to reduce and mitigate the suffering, help people who really need us and improve conditions for girls, women and other vulnerable people. That's noble and good, and it's nice that we do that. But we seem to look a little away from the damage we ourselves do to the living environment of these people and the conditions in which they have to live. So here comes the Minister's trade agenda, which just seems more dominant than her commitment to achieving the goals we have all agreed on, the Sustainable Development Goals. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has adopted a motion to take the Monitor Brede Prosperity and to involve it in the elaboration of the Minister's note. This monitor shows that the Netherlands is a rich country, but this is at the expense of people elsewhere, of people in the future and of our natural resources and climate. I therefore hope that the Minister will work intensively on the motion, but we do not yet see much evidence of that. So we have to conclude that this budget is not only a two-faced budget that wants to help on the one hand but on the other hand to do a lot of damage, but also a budget that is heading for 3°C climate change, that is to say, 3°C global warming. And this minister at the SDGs recognises that climate change needs to be addressed and that it is one of the risk factors for people in vulnerable areas. Mr. Chairman. What could the Minister possibly do? We've already talked about palm oil. Palm oil is disastrous for the rainforest. People are driven away from their land and have to return to the plantations as guilt slaves, a lot of poison is used and the last habitat of the orangutan disappears. Do we really need that palm oil? Is it good for us? Is it healthy? Are we all gonna drop dead here if we stop eating palm oil? No. It just isn't. So if we have been trying this moderate approach for 14 years, with those tables to make it a little more sustainable, and the situation is still sad and we are still losing rainforest, can we not once conclude that that approach is too little and that we also have to do something else? Then we will not give up those tables, but perhaps we can also reduce the import of palm oil. Again, we don't need it for anything. Peanut butter is fine to eat without palm oil in it. Is the Minister prepared to do so? And how does she see it with soy? Mr. Chairman. I also saw this two-faced approach when, in the last autumn recess with a number of fellow chamber members, I was invited by the Foreign Minister to work at the UN headquarters. If you walk around there, you can see that the UN is really doing its best, with all the people who work there, including the Dutch delegation, to bring about a positive change. And you read that the human rights rapporteur of the UN Human Rights Commission on the right to food says: in the rich West we must at least halve our meat consumption or eat even less meat, otherwise we can forget about feeding the world and fighting hunger. But then you walk into a cafeteria that's just full of meat and dairy. That's what made me think, how does it go at the State Department? What are the food choices there? We know that the important institutions of the United Nations itself, the human rights rapporteur but also the UN Environment Programme, say: if we continue to consume meat and dairy products in this way, it will never work. Is it too much to ask, at least, to act on its own? So is the Minister prepared to make vegetarian the norm, for example, when she invites people to dinner herself? At least her colleague from OCW does. Let's see what we can do to reduce meat and dairy consumption, because that helps everyone. And the UN Human Rights rapporteur doesn't say it for nothing. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. I also have good news, because in Australia there have been elections and the Australian sister party of the Party for Animals seems there... Oh, there's a question first, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u233	Mr. Van Haga, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u234	I'll come back to the palm oil anyway. I think we are all in agreement on that, but we do differ on the order of magnitude and on what we should focus our approach on. Does Mrs Ouwehand agree with me that if she starts eating less palm oil, its impact on total palm oil production is negligible? If we use our Dutch, our Wageningse, techniques to probably triple the production of palm oil per hectare, this has a much greater impact on palm oil production. Then we won't have to cut down any more forests. That would be a much better approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u235	The problem is that this has been going on for 14 years. If a dynamic is going on from a search by the big food industry for the cheapest raw materials in the world, then one has to conclude that the interests of protecting natural ecosystems and human rights are not central and nothing is even a healthy food pattern for the whole world. This is mainly about the financial interests of industry. I've told you a few times that palm oil is cheap. It is a useful raw material that is very often not needed. In addition to the approach that has been being tried for 14 years now with these tables and with production as efficient as possible, can we not also opt for a change in our consumption patterns and in our biofuels policy? Because why are we putting palm oil in the tanks of our cars? Mr. Chairman. I have some good news, too. The Australians already have a Party for Animals in the New South Wales Parliament. They have now also had elections in Victoria and it seems that the sister party of the Party for Animals has also won a seat there. This means that both from the Dutch Parliament and from the Australian Parliament we can ask critical questions about the negotiations on a trade agreement between Australia and Europe. Is it or is it not going to contribute to the reduction of animal suffering and to tackling climate change? I'm asking the Minister right now. Can she clarify which agricultural products would be included? For it seems mad to me to drag meat from Australia to Europe. It's not like we're producing too little meat here. This also applies to other foods that we can produce very well here. The other good news was that there was a party in parliament called the Shooters Fishers and Farmers Party of Victoria. They had two seats, but they seem to have lost them. I think that is good news, because these are just conservative politicians who are not so much in favour of climate change. So maybe it's still going the right way. But then we have to do our best on this side too. What about the negotiations on the EU-Australia trade agreement? Can the Minister shine her light on that? Is it prepared to allow the climate targets to guide all negotiations? Because how is it that we are still talking to Brazil about Mercosur, when Brazil says: we are no longer going to participate in the climate agreement. That's impossible, isn't it? The same applies to America. Can we not agree here that we are not concluding a trade agreement with those countries that are not going to comply with the Paris climate agreement? This would create enormous distortions of competition, as producers from these countries would not have to meet climate requirements. We are trying with pain and difficulty to achieve it in our economy and then you would simply have your border open to products from those countries. I don't think that's fair. It also seems to me that this does not bring the climate targets closer. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u236	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u237	Mr. Chairman. I have not informed Australia whether an SGP has been established there, but I will inform it tomorrow. You never know! Mr. Chairman. Somewhere I read: the world looks like an orchestra without a conductor. Indeed, world politics often sounds more like a cacaphony than a symphony. But that doesn't necessarily lead to chaos. Because if we know how to deal with unpredictability and uncertainty, we will also find ways to promote good business. Mr. Chairman. First of all, this calls for a sufficient budget. Without money, you don't do anything. Unfortunately, we have to note that unexpected disasters and crises put great pressure on the Dutch budget for regular or official development cooperation, ODA. As far as we are concerned, this pressure must not become too high. Unfortunately, the international agreement to invest 0.7% of gross national income in ODA will not be met by the Netherlands. Our question is therefore what the Minister's commitment is to reverse this downward trend. Can the Minister indicate what percentage of ODA is used as leverage for private investment in developing countries? How is this further stimulated? The SGP Group considers it very important that development aid reaches the poorest countries, both in the middle income countries and in the least developed countries. At the end of 2016, the government indicated that the Dutch ODA rate for least developed countries was expected to reach 0.26% of gross national income for 2016, while 0.24% and 0.21% were expected for 2017 and 2018 respectively. What has this real relationship been in recent years? Can the Minister indicate which part of the ODA is currently reaching the poorest? I'm going to clean water and sanitation. As the patron of SDG 6, together with Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS, who unfortunately cannot be here tonight, I doubt whether it will be possible to provide 12 million people with additional sanitation by 2020. Mrs Diks van GroenLinks has already spoken about this. We think it is right that last week the manifesto 'Everyone has the right to a clean toilet' was submitted. Good health, but also economic self-reliance, cannot be without good hygiene. I therefore ask the Minister to work on a credible plan to achieve the goals set. Does it want to provide insight into the budgets needed and reserved for this purpose? If necessary, I have a motion for this with Mrs Van Brenn. Mr. Chairman. I would ask the Minister to actively support initiatives to bring in Dutch water works and infrastructure companies internationally. I'd say bring in the Dutch. In the spirit of my predecessor, who was standing here last year, it was one of the last debates he had done. I also put my finger on SDG 2: putting an end to hunger through enough and healthy food. I would like to stress that there can be no cuckoo-one-singing approach here. We need to combine our knowledge and expertise with local knowledge and expertise. I would particularly like to draw attention to small-scale farmers. Self-sufficiency, better food and access to finance and local markets are very important for them. Our question to the Minister is therefore to work on a clearer context and a target-specific approach. Will the Minister respond to that? Mr. Chairman. Enough food and drink is a blessing, but it doesn't do you much good if you have to fear body and limb. That too has already been appointed by others. A major global problem is and will continue to be impunity, resulting in criminals getting away with abuse, abuse and oppression. As a result, countless people, including minors, are stuck in dangerous factories or obscure brothels against their will. No one can hear their cry or see their tears. One of the most important ways of combating this is good governance and a well-functioning rule of law. In line with SDG 16, the Netherlands can and must contribute to this through both public authorities and civil society organisations. Our question to the Minister is whether she wishes to make this explicit for all diplomatic posts and, where necessary, to provide broad support to relevant NGOs, such as International Justice Mission and Terre des Hommes. Mr. Chairman. Then people with disabilities. Last summer I was in Uganda in Africa. Through Light for the World the people were sitting in the gallery earlier, I came into contact with people in Africa with a restriction. My eyes have opened there, I must say. I think it is very important for the cabinet to keep an eye on people with disabilities. Like the CDA, I would also like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to draw up special criteria for involving people with disabilities within the subsidy frameworks for NGOs and companies. Mr President, then aid and trade. Another important issue is the sensible combination of aid and trade. It is a question of coherent policy. Let the right hand know what the left hand is doing, so to speak. It is recognised that trade is good, provided it does not result in depletion of natural resources or exploitation of people. We discussed this recently in earlier AO's. That is why I would like to confine myself to one question: how, also by RVO and FMO, is it directed towards the sustainability of trade and production of internationally operating companies? Then one more point before I come to an end. Speaking of sensible helping and acting, I note that this Minister is making a substantial contribution, even extra, to helping Palestinians. Unfortunately, however, I do not see how it is ensured that the Palestinians are quickly and effectively independent of this foreign aid. Our question, also to the Minister, is: does Dutch and EU aid contribute to economic development and employment for the Palestinians and the transfer of UNRWA facilities to the Palestinian authorities? And is it also essential for the Minister that the Palestinians learn to stand on their own feet? What is the concrete approach and what are the means to achieve it? Finally, Mr President. Some people compare the world to an orchestra without a conductor, but others prefer to speak of a chessboard, a billiard table or an arena. No matter how we see the international playing field, we all need a good dose of wisdom and game insight. That is what we, as SGP, wish the Minister and all those involved in the implementation of the policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u238	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Kuzu and Mr Kuzu, on behalf of the DENK Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Many Dutch give to charities and in our society, fortunately, there is a lot of support for people affected by natural disasters or suffering from humanitarian crises. We must continue to stand up as a country for others who urgently need help. When studying the budget debate, this year but also last year, on development cooperation, my group expressed the feeling that development cooperation is being used as a disguised anti-migration policy. And last Monday, it became painfully clear. We saw VVD member Van Haga stuntelen at Pauw, in which he wants to reduce the theme of "development cooperation," the aid for the most vulnerable in the world, by introducing yield thinking: €1 in and €42 out. At the VVD they have the idea that everything should only be expressed in numbers, money and return, with no regard for human measure. Because in 2016 we also took note of the intentions of VVD chamber member Taverne and actually colleague Bouali of D66 could have known this. Mr. Chairman. African women's freedom of choice to decide for themselves how many children they want to have must be taken away from them, because all these Africans will eventually come to Europe. And that's why the VVD wants to hand out condoms and contraceptive pills to limit births and that's too disgusting for words. Speaking of unfree countries! The conclusion is that the VVD's dirty tengels should stay away from African women. I ask the Minister to speak out strongly against Van Haga's disgusting idea, and if she doesn't, I regret to note that the cabinet and this D66 minister are giving free space to legal populists. And I'm sure she won't. Mr. Chairman. Development cooperation is a concrete contribution to providing hope and prospects for a dignified existence. More than 135 million people worldwide needed humanitarian aid in 2018. At present, more than 68.5 million people are fleeing war, violence and persecution. The need is high, but what does the cabinet do in the meantime? Already during the formation of Rutte III, the additional resources for development cooperation were heavily fought. They have been used, among other things, to close a number of gaps in the forthcoming budgets, which were the result of Rutte II's cash slides. This budget makes it painfully clear that this cabinet's investment in development cooperation is not enough to reverse previous cuts. The internationally agreed standard of 0.7% of gross national income for development cooperation has not been met by the Netherlands for the third year in a row. All those parties who pride themselves on achieving the NATO standard of 2% of gross national income for spending money on weapons should be ashamed of themselves. Mr. Chairman. Every day we are confronted with reports of long-term conflicts, natural violence, famines and diseases. Does the Minister agree with us that, in times of unprecedented humanitarian needs, the Netherlands should spend more on humanitarian aid compared to previous years? I will therefore begin with the starving Yemen. The biggest humanitarian crisis in the world is now taking place here. Every day, children balance on the edge of death. Children are more at risk of starvation than bombs and bullets, children who are so malnourished that they do not even have the strength to cry. How does the Minister intend to implement UN Security Council Resolution 2417, Conflict and Hunger, on the eradication of hunger as a weapon of war? Mr. Chairman. What was once one of the richest countries in South America now shows a parallel with the situation in Syria. The ongoing consequences of the crisis in 2015 are well visible in Venezuela. According to the UN, there are over 3 million Venezuelans on the run. The possibility of receiving refugees in the region is under pressure, as the willingness of countries in the region threatens to decline, such as in Brazil, where the sister party of the PVV, the very right-wing populist Jair Bolsonaro, won the elections. DENK wants to call on the Minister to increase aid for countries within our Kingdom, Aruba and Curaçao, which are currently dealing with the flow of refugees from Venezuela. I ask: is this Minister prepared to do so? Let me be honest: I have been bluntly captured by the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations, and I have also been bluntly captured by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. But I'm counting on this minister's heart. Is this Minister also prepared to provide emergency aid to Venezuela? Mr. Chairman. Then on the announced repatriation of the Rohingya. More than 700,000 Rohingya fled last year to neighbour Bangladesh, after the Myanmari army increasingly used violence against them. The United Nations investigation has shown that the Myanmari army has committed genocide. My group is therefore deeply saddened by the announcement by Bangladesh and Myanmar that both countries want to repatriate Rohingya. Neither Bangladesh nor Myanmar's civilian government can guarantee the safety of the Rohingya and their homeland Rakhine. That is why three questions to the Minister. Does the Minister agree with my group that the Rohingya must not be forced back to Myanmar? Two. Are you prepared to exert pressure on the Government of Myanmar to ensure a dignified, safe and humane life for the remaining Rohingya in Myanmar, in the framework of the United Nations Security Council and within the European Union? Three. I would like to ask the Minister how much extra resources she will use to improve Rohingya's position in refugee camps. I have tabled an amendment on this with Mr Van den Hul, and I would like to receive a response. I hope that Mr Bouali of D66, because he likes it, will advise his group to vote in favour. Mr. Chairman. Then about the UNRWA and the hostility of Trump and the Christian Union. At the beginning of this year Trump already scraped 65 million of the planned contribution to this UN aid organisation. Now Trump goes one step further. The UN aid organisation for Palestinian refugees is not getting another penny from the United States. Now you see that the same thing is about to happen in the Netherlands. With the Christian Union at the forefront, we are once again chasing the United States, while, according to our cabinet, UNRWA is, I quote, "essential for reception in the region by providing basic services to over 5 million Palestinian refugees." We should not politicise humanitarian aid, and that is really disgusting to me from the Christian Union. UNRWA provides training for hundreds of thousands of Palestinian children and manages hospitals and clinics. It also provides assistance to 5 million poor Palestinian families in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Lebanon and Jordan. Mr President, I will conclude. The Netherlands should return more quickly to a contribution of 0.7% of gross national income. Instead of only in 2030, the Netherlands should actually return to that contribution of 0.7% by five years at the latest. Greater investment is needed to meet the complex global challenges and to invest structurally in the future of the poorest. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u240	Thank you. With your contribution, we have reached the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. That means I will suspend the debate in a moment. This debate will continue tomorrow evening. Then we will be the first to respond to the Minister in the first term. Then we'll keep, finalizing, the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-15.u241	At the end of the day, I think it is so nice to thank the Minister for being here. The same goes, of course, for Members of Parliament, for our support as well as for the Minister. This also applies, of course, to the care of us. Thank you very much.
