ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on benefit fraud by Polish migrant workers. I welcome everyone in the public gallery, the MPs and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, and I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In early September, Nieuwsuur reveals that there is large-scale WW fraud. Polish migrant workers receive a massive WW benefit while not staying in the Netherlands. They're messing with addresses, fake signatures and fake applications. On September 24th we see new revelations. Notifications of fraud are not picked up by the UWV. There is talk of a road-view culture. Moreover, we are told that the Court has not or has not been informed of this fraud. So we have three serious problems: large-scale fraud, a cover-up culture and not informing the Chamber. Does the Minister recognise that these three issues are absolutely unacceptable? And does he also share my view that if you open the borders to cheap labour from Eastern Europe and at the same time do not control benefits, you tie the cat to the bacon? Mr. Chairman. In his letter of 1 October, the Minister writes that, looking back, the approach to fraud did not have the necessary urgency, it was a nice understatement, among other things, because of huge cuts of no less than 500 million euros. Does the Minister recognize that austerity was too grim? Partly as a result, a structural approach to fraud remained lacking. Targets had to be made. "Condemned is cheaper than maintaining!', It was said. All processes were also automated. Personal contact was abolished. As a result, anyone behind their laptop can apply for benefits. Rightly or wrongly, that doesn't matter; the UWV doesn't check. That's deadly for the support of social security. The Chamber was not properly informed. The Minister writes that the provision of information should have been more "proactive" and yet another nice euphemism. Let me summarize the letter in my own words. It's been a mess at the UWV for years, and it's bizarre that no measures were taken. Last Monday new revelations came to Nieuwsuur. Migrant workers appear to be applying for structural WW benefits while there is still plenty of work. We are talking about welfare tourism. How is that possible? Because the UWV doesn't control that either. Mr. Chairman. The question arises: is this minister still in control? Does he recognize that the UWV has structural problems that haven't been brushed away with some patches? It's not the first time. I remind you of the Bulgarian fraud with surcharges, the ongoing problems with ICT, the expensive new building with golden cranes on the toilet, and the top salaries of UWV drivers. How does the Minister view this series of misses? Does he share the view that supervision of the UWV should be much better? There must be independent supervision of such a megalomaniac body. What is your opinion on the functioning of the UWV summit? The Minister is responsible, but he must be able to hold the leadership to account. Do you share the view that their competence is seriously under discussion? Do you agree that we should be given all the information about the creation of this WW debacle, and that we as a Chamber have a duty to examine this fundamentally? That is why I propose that we organise a parliamentary interrogation so that we can hear those responsible under oath. Then it is about the UWV summit, but also about the minister and his predecessors. For we must have an answer to the question of how it is possible for years to be cheated and that this was known within the UWV and the ministry, but that they refused to intervene? Let us be clear: we are not standing here because the government has informed us; we are standing here because Nieuwsuur has discovered this thanks to good journalistic digging. It is important to get answers, for the Chamber, but also for the people, because they do not understand and I fully understand that. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions. Does the Minister agree that the UWV should no longer use its own address files but should make full use of the municipal address data, the so-called Basic Registration Persons? Will the Minister make every effort to recover the wrongly paid benefits? Does he use the advice of ICT experts, such as René Veldwijk, who was also on display in Nieuwsuur on 9 October? Finally, does the Minister agree with the SP that the bottom line should emerge, that we should know the exact extent of this fraud and that those responsible should be called upon to account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 3 September, Nieuwsuur announced that there had been large-scale fraud with unemployment benefits for years. In particular, Polish migrant workers would use false signatures, fake applications and address fraud with the help of intermediaries to receive a benefit they are not entitled to at all. And what's pale? The UWV knew about this fraud for years, but did not inform the Ministry until 2016. The then Minister Louis Asscher then decided not to inform the Chamber. The current minister did not seem to know for the first time with the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, witnessing his shocking reaction in Question Time the following day. That doesn't get a pretty picture. On September 22nd, again News: there is a culture of looking away from the UWV. Employees are discouraged from condemning fraud involving benefits. They are constantly under pressure of time, and signals are hardly doing anything. Finally, last Monday, the UWV paid unemployment benefits without checking whether people were actually fired. Consequences: large-scale fraud, possibly even larger than we thought. This is shocking, because it undermines the support for our social security system. But what I also find bizarre is that, as a Chamber, we are constantly informed by the news of these abuses. Over and over again, we must be provided with our information by journalists. As GroenLinks, we are committed to journalism, but we would really like to receive information about such large-scale fraud from the minister himself and not via an item in Nieuwsuur. That is why I would like to know from the Minister how he feels that we, as representatives of the people in this dossier, are always dependent on journalists. How is that even possible? I can see two flavors myself. The first is: the minister also knew nothing about it and was as surprised by Nieuwsuur as we are. Or the Minister knew but chose not to inform the Chamber. Both are bad things. From the answers we received this morning, I understand that the first is the case, so the Minister did not have the signals either. That is fair from the Minister, and that is commendable in him, but that does not make it any less regrettable. I would therefore very much like the Minister's reply to this in detail, because as far as GroenLinks is concerned, the last word has certainly not yet been said about this. Mr. Chairman. Then the contents. We are dealing here with an implementation organisation that is not doing its job well; at least everything points to that. Maybe she can't do her job right. As GroenLinks, we have been talking about the public sector a lot lately. Then we talk about education, care and people who work in the police, but also the people who are responsible for implementing our social security system and who are implementing the safety net that we as the Netherlands should be proud of, belong to that public sector. That public sector is in crisis. Today we see yet another example of this. The last cabinet and coalitions have cut so much that the people at UWV can hardly do their job anymore. They ended up in a production plant with targets and performance agreements, when they would actually just want to help people get to work. They also want the signals about possible fraud they are passing on to be taken seriously. I am curious to see the Minister's views on this and I would ask him to respond. Maybe there's too much savings on the UWV? Have we destroyed our implementation organisation so much that she can barely do her job anymore? Does the Minister think that the extra money from the coalition agreement is enough to solve this? GroenLinks has serious doubts about this, so I am very curious about the answer. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks wants clarity and clarity for all involved. That's why GroenLinks wants an investigation by the General Court. The key question of this study must be whether the WW benefits are legally and effectively paid. It should be taken into account what is the situation with regard to the direction of the ministry. We must also look at the effects of the cuts in recent years. I sincerely hope that the House and the Minister will support this request so that we can make the right decisions on the basis of the right information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we have a nice social system. The minute you lose your job, there's a benefit for you. Then we'll catch you. The moment you get sick, there's a benefit for you. We'll get that. We'll all pay for it. That's very good. That is the solidarity in our system with which we take people when things don't work out. This month, we're freaked out. Through various broadcasts from Nieuwsuur we heard that our social system and benefits are under pressure because of fraud. I find that very worrying, because fraud affects solidarity. That affects the confidence, because like everyone else I pay my premium and assume that this will be done properly. So I think we can say in broad terms that this fraud is unacceptable. I have four main points for this debate. Firstly, the extent of fraud. Through Nieuwsuur we get the shocking impression that this is a large-scale fraudous export of WW. My main question today is how big this fraud really is. I remember a work visit at the UWV. That's when the Chamber received information. The UWV says that out of the billions it pays out, 99.2% is well paid. How does this 99.2% relate to potential large-scale fraud? What kind of information is there? What am I supposed to base myself on? What should the Chamber base itself on? I'd like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	I thought the PvdA might have fewer questions, because she had two social affairs ministers in the cabinet before that. They were responsible for that. The fraud happened during that period. I thought the PvdA might have a little more inside information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	I have to disappoint Mrs. Van Brenn. I have no prior knowledge of this debate. That is precisely why I am asking these questions to Minister Koolmees. In Koolmees' letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	From the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. The letter from the Minister for Social Affairs states that the previous Minister was informed by the UWV in 2016 about possible problems with the export of the WW. The current Minister for Social Affairs, Koolmees, writes that measures have been taken and that the UWV has begun an investigation. How big is this fraud? In the end, that's what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	That was the Bulgarian fraud back then. We now see where this has led and how dramatic it all is. Do you blame the minister's predecessor for bringing about the present misery?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	If this is going to be a debate about who did it, I will not be part of it. I think the Netherlands has a right to see how we can resolve this as quickly as possible. It is particularly about solidarity in our system. Where did it go wrong? What goes wrong with the UWV? What goes wrong between Social Services and the UWV? So I'm not playing that game. I think it is important that we resolve it as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. Then it's about size. The Minister writes that he will investigate the situation in the UWV's data systems. But will the minister also look at the past? Does the Minister have any way to recover it? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the relationship between UWV and Social Affairs. The Minister for Social Affairs is responsible, but there is something strange about the relationship between the UWV, which is an independent administrative body, and the Minister for Social Affairs. Of course they're in agreement. But now it appears that there have been large-scale problems at the UWV for years. So the Minister must get to work quickly. Is the affair still going to be okay? Does the Minister perhaps need more instruments than consultation with the Management Board if there is evidence of large-scale fraud? How does the Minister see that? In the answers to the written questions I have asked, the Minister states that the relationship is good. But, yes, if this leads to a further discussion with the board of directors, when it turns out that there is something wrong with the ratio, I would nevertheless like a somewhat deeper answer from the minister to the question of how to improve that relationship and the grip on the UWV as a politically responsible. Mr. Chairman. Then the culture within the UWV. I found it distressing that employees of the UWV only dared to speak anonymously at Nieuwsuur about the culture of fear. A culture of: I actually saw it for years, I received those reports, but it was said above all that we had to pay those benefits and, above all, did not have to look too far and too deep. That says something about a culture in an organization. How is the Minister going to pay attention to this? This also has to do with the first question, namely: does the Minister not need more instruments to ensure that culture is improved? Is the UWV capable of that? I would like to remind the Minister that it might be wise to put a number of people outside the UWV for a while, precisely to keep that culture and the fight against fraud from outside in an open mind, with no interest. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the role of temporary employment agencies. The broadcasting sector still plays a separate role in this, because it seems to be a earning model from time to time. 80% of migrant workers work through temporary employment agencies. 75% of Polish migrant workers are at work in the first period, the phase in which you do not yet build up a pension and further rights. There seems to be some kind of model that you get fired after that first phase and then get WW. This creates a pay model for temporary employment agencies. Does the Minister see this danger? I also see that the Minister is going to talk to the temporary agency. I think that would be great. But is he also willing to take an extra step? In the Belgian model, temporary employment agencies and employers are obliged to report when a migrant comes in and when he leaves. Isn't that an idea to gain more control over the flows from Eastern Europe and to impose that obligation on temporary agency agencies? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	How does the Labour Party see the role of former Minister Asscher in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u14	It is a bit of a repetition of Mrs Van Brenk's question. The current Minister for Social Affairs has described that the Minister from the UWV has been kept informed several times. He has taken a number of measures, including personal guidance. At the time of the Rutte I austerity at the UWV Werkbedrijf it was said that the digitisation had gone crazy and that one had to go more towards personal guidance. During Rutte II, extra money was added in collaboration with a number of opposition parties, in times of crisis. And a further investigation has been launched through the UWV. In this I see a role that suits the Minister for Social Affairs. But my question is more fundamental: is the division of roles between the UWV and the Minister of Social Affairs future-proof, if you see what is happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u15	That's all true. Only, my question was actually about informing the Chamber. The choice was made by former Minister Asscher not to inform the Court of Justice about this, although it is very serious. Now my question to Mr Van Dijk is whether he agrees with me that there should be a parliamentary inquiry. Interrogations, Court of Auditors, all fine, but there should be a parliamentary inquiry into how things could have gone so wrong in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u16	I am not in favour of that, because I want it to be resolved now. I see a Minister of Social Affairs who's scared of signals and picks this up. At the heart of today's debate is: does the Minister have sufficient instruments to actually solve this major problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr President, thank you very much. Today we are discussing the total chaos at the UWV, a chaos the UWV has known for years and has done virtually nothing about. An unprecedented mess that the ministry knew about a long time ago, but the Chamber has not or hardly informed about. A huge blow to our social security system, whereby 10,000 Poles could commit undisturbed fraud with the WW, where a cover-up culture could arise, where employees reporting fraud were dismissed, where the UWV did not give priority to combating fraud, where 370 million euros of WW fraud could be committed, and only 2.4 million euros have been recovered, where Polish migrant workers were not entitled to it, who received a benefit and could spend our money on holiday. All of this to a large extent under the supervision of former chairman of the board VVD'er Bruno Bruins. With his €220,000 a year he could fail on UWV salary as much as he wanted; it didn't matter at all for his position. 'Cause he didn't quit, and he didn't get fired for his mischief. No, he got promoted and is now a minister in this cabinet with all the state-law benefits free of charge. So he can now hide behind Wouter Koolmees without being held accountable because he is the Minister of Social Affairs and is politically responsible for the UWV. Mr. Chairman. So that's how it goes with the VVD. If you mess up, if you look away from a cover-up culture, if you don't make the fight against hundreds of millions of euros of fraud a priority, then you don't have to quit, you don't get fired. No, you'll get a big paid job as a minister. I don't understand. Bruno Bruins must be thinking, "I'm getting away with everything." It can't be that all of us here in the Chamber can find that, can we? He's been misdirected. It can't be that when an ordinary Dutchman accidentally misfils a form, he can often count on a tough approach that threatens to reduce benefits, but that when you know the right people, when you're boyfriends with Mark Rutte and you can get a nice minister post, you can get away with your previous mischief? It can't be. We therefore want this cabinet to ensure that, as long as Bruno Bruins is a minister, his salary is at least halved. He must really feel that he's been wrong. Mr. Chairman. Then to this minister. He has to take action. That is why the following logical points need to be taken up directly and which it is really bizarre that it is not just policy in practice already. Mandatory the UWV which is checked by default when applying for a WW benefit whether the applicant is entitled to a WW benefit at all. Mandatory the UWV to maintain the requirements and conditions for receiving WW after issuing the benefit. Make every effort to repay the amount of fraud to the last penny plus fine and legal interest. At the same time, make sure that the progress is not too long, that it cannot be that in five years' time people will be free, in the sense of: I have committed thousands of euros of fraud and I do not have to pay it back. Let the former driver justify himself, including the current drivers who knew about the abuses within UWV and have done nothing. Don't let them get away with it. Fire them when they're still there and at any rate call them to account. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I hope, of course, that this Minister will accept our points, but in any case, further research is needed into this unprecedented UWV debacle. We therefore call on the Chamber to agree to a parliamentary inquiry. This issue is too important to take off in a few hours' debate. Let us conduct a parliamentary inquiry into all of this. I will also table a motion for that in the second term, and I hope that it will be a majority of this House. Mr President, the final point. Just before this debate began, we received a letter from the Minister. In it he indicated that he does not see the policy that has been pursued in recent years as a mispolicy. He says: fraud, so many millions, cover-up policy, not a priority in the fight against fraud, I do not see that as a malpractice policy and I am not going to fire anyone. This can't be happening. I would like a response from the Minister, whether he can take back those words and simply take action at the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are having this debate today. Our country has a lot to be proud of. A very important element in this is the safety net that we have when it's against, if you can't work temporarily or even for a long time. That safety net also requires care, especially because the money that is needed for it is brought up by the rest of society, by people who work hard and at the same time understand that life can sometimes be against it and that you have to be there for each other. The same people saw at Nieuwsuur that these benefits, which they have worked together, are being cheated on a potentially large scale. I cannot explain that, and we cannot explain this here, all of us, that our WW payments are being misused to celebrate holidays or to do additional jobs in Poland. Whatever I think of that, in the Netherlands you are also entitled to unemployment benefit as a migrant worker as soon as you have been working for at least six months and become largely unemployed involuntarily. But if you want to bottle things up, the approach can't be firm enough. I hope the Minister agrees with the VVD too, because that is what this debate is about. We have to deal with the safety net carefully. In recent years, the VVD has not repeatedly questioned the Minister about the risks of fraud, warned about the vulnerability of our social security, the role of Europe in it and also called for an approach to this. But what happened to that, I wonder now. For I have to say that the Minister confirms that this approach needs more urgency. We have also tabled various motions in recent years in order to understand precisely what is going on and how we anticipate it. Apparently, we didn't do that right. I blame the Minister for that. So we need to do this more carefully and better. I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u21	The VVD always has a big mouth when it comes to combating fraud, always taking firm action and you name it. But in the meantime, there was a VVD in the top of the album called Bruno Bruins, who has failed it all. Now my question to Mr Wiersma of the VVD is what he thinks of that. Does Mr Wiersma agree with me that he should have assumed his responsibility, that he should have quit, that he should have been fired and that he should not have gone away now that he is a minister and that he must feel that he has failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr De Jong and I are sitting here, he may not think it very close together. He has just drawn attention to a number of points that he says we should really do it more firmly: check by default why someone has become unemployed, maintain, actually check if someone is really entitled to it when the WW has been paid and do everything possible to get those fines back. We agree on that. But at this point, I find that too easy. Because the chairman of, in this case, the UWV is a former politician who then becomes a politician for the VVD again, I understand that Mr De Jong likes to link that to the VVD. But it's really too easy for me, even ridicul, to say he's responsible for that fraud. When I read the Minister's letter, I see that a lot of steps have been taken. Is that enough? No, that's not enough. We're critical of that. I didn't call the Minister to the Chamber twice for nothing. And that's what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u23	That's kind of crazy. There is someone from the VVD who earned €220,000 a year when he was responsible at the UWV for the way fraud was handled. There has been malpractice, as Mr Koolmees' letter pointed out, because the fight against fraud has not been given sufficient urgency. That's just what the chairman of the board is responsible for. I don't know who else should be responsible for it than the one at the top. But what I especially find crazy about it is that at the ROC Leiden fifteen ex-drivers were later called on the mat. Then the VVD here in the Chamber said, "Hit those people hard! In fact, they have to turn in their ribbons if they've got a ribbon. Turn in the ribbon! I agree, because you have to deal with malpractice. Now it's a VVD man who's been misguided at the UWV and now the VVD in the Chamber doesn't give at home. You can't explain that, can you? Just make sure Bruno Bruins takes his responsibility and he can't get away with this. And support that he at least has to turn in half his salary and that he has to answer for the malpractice he has committed at the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u24	It's not at all true that anyone gets away with this. I am very firm towards the one who is ultimately responsible for this and who is accountable in the Chamber: the Minister. I am not only firm with the minister, but also with the UWV. I have asked a lot of questions about this, perhaps most of them, because I am very critical. But we also need to be honest. The chairman of the UWV also operates independently. He does so under the responsibility of the Minister, but he does not do so on behalf of a political party. If he's wearing a blue shirt, you'd like to hang him here on the gallows. But what if he's wearing a red or a green shirt? So that doesn't matter. The point is that he does things that the minister has to answer for and that we all have to ask a lot of questions about. I hope that we can get the right answers and take an approach. I'm gonna go for it to solve the problems. Fortunately, I have seen that we are very much in agreement on this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u25	So the crazy thing about this is that, just because it's a VVD guy, Mr. Wiersma is now withdrawing his bullshit when it comes to tackling drivers. When it comes to the ROC Leiden, the VVD has a big mouth here in the plenary room and then the drivers who have been misguided even have to turn in their ribbons. But now it's a VVD minister in the current cabinet who doesn't answer, but hides behind Wouter Koolmees as minister, and he doesn't have to worry. That's double standards, isn't it? The VVD can't be taken seriously anymore, can it? You can't say that the moment someone is responsible for malpractice and for so many hundreds of millions of fraud and nothing has been recovered, it's the party you have to count on to deal with that? That's complete bullshit. You let Mr Bruno Bruins get away with it, and that is a great shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u26	No, we're not. What we're doing is being very critical of what happened there. But not only on what happened there, because the UWV has also done a lot of things. I don't recognize him in the "malpractice" qualification either, because that means you're not doing anything, you're sleeping and you're not taking any action at all. I see things have happened there, but I notice immediately that there has also been cuts in the UWV. I do not run away from that, because that has had consequences, including for the deployment of capacity. But it must never be the case that fraud pays and that we do not deal with it. However, I have also seen an increase in the number of migrant workers in recent years. The VVD has always been very critical of that. The use of facilities, the WW, also increased. The VVD has been very critical of that. We will remain, but we also say that this approach has not been strong enough. We have even tabled motions on this in the past year. Then I am very firm: we have to learn from that, the UWV has to do something about it and the minister has to be in control to get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u27	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u28	That's in the basic error. At the moment when EUR 370 million can be cheated and only EUR 2.5 million recovered, when 10,000 Poles can simply go ahead with WW fraud, when a cover-up culture is created at the UWV, the VVD says: I do not call this a malpractice policy. If you don't call that a malpractice, if you don't think so, then the VVD doesn't give at home. Then the VVD won't do us any good, because they'll never go through with it. Because even a former UWV executive who was responsible for this can now hide himself because he is a minister in the current cabinet... he has not been dismissed but promotion..................................................................................................................................................................................... And the VVD just agrees. You are no longer to be taken seriously when it comes to combating fraud. You don't call it malpractice. It's a hell of a scandal, Mr. Chairman. It's a hell of a scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u29	The PVV excels in qualifications here, but I have not heard many solutions. I support what I have heard, but I would like to see more real solutions, I would say. Besides, I'm not in politics. No, I'm working on solving problems here, and I'd like to address the Minister. I'll be firm on that. I have told you that; you can count on me to do so. I doubt this is solid enough. I have a lot of questions about that. I'll say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u30	"Strong approach," says the VVD. That welcomes 50PLUS. But shouldn't Mr Wiersma of the VVD acknowledge that the UWV has been handled too firmly and that there has been far too draconian cuts? That we got into this mess because of this? And that this is also due to Rutte III, after all these years of austerity, the result?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u31	I also said that there were cuts. I'm not running away from that. That's right. But saving means not allowing fraud in my dictionary. In fact, if you don't let that happen and you act hard, you get money back, you collect fines, and maybe even higher fines, that's a lot of money. If we did that, we might have a lot more money. So I would say: yes, and then this is reason to do it even more firmly. If we didn't, I blame the Minister, we should do it, I see good incitings. Are we there? Well, no, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u32	Isn't it just because there are far too few people? That there is just too little FTE for that very good control, which is very much needed, and that it should just come? And that we can count on the VVD if the VVD needs more manpower and means to make sure it goes well? Because indeed, now we're getting a lot of money leaking away, when, if we were to invest in front, maybe we wouldn't have this shit at all. I'm charging the VVD for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u33	I can imagine you looking inside the UWV at wherever you think the priority should be. And it would be nice for the Chamber to be included and to be able to find something about it. Then it might well be that we are saying together: this enforcement, that is actually one that should be much more accentuated and what more people should do. But do I say that this is not possible with the existing resources of the UWV? No, I don't see how that wouldn't be possible. I can see that there are people who know ICT, who say: I can do much easier with a very simple programme to visualize fraud, and also tackle it, and track people down. If it doesn't happen, it's not gonna happen, and of course that's weird, when it can. So I would say: I think it can be better there. Sharing cooperation in personal data, the BRP much better. In recent years, we have had a lot of discussions about this. Why don't we take care of that right? And linking these systems with each other a lot. I think it's a lot more in there than just here, in human power. If the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has also read his letter correctly, I would say in reply to Mrs Van Brenk, saying that this strengthened approach can now also be applied within the current resources, then I would say that we should have done so earlier. Anyway, let's do it. And with everything that's needed, I'm sure I'll encourage the Minister too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u34	The VVD wants to tackle fraud and I very much agree with that. But we have now also been given the opportunity to say that the UWV has completely failed in dealing with this fraud. There was talk of a road-view culture. If Mr Wiersma were to say: we should get the bottom stone up, we should know how this could have happened, and that is what we are going to investigate as a Chamber? If you don't want to, you're a little suspicious of keeping certain people out of the wind, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u35	That's why I think we're here today to investigate this. But you seem to have your judgment ready, and when I hear it like that, I don't think you need much more. If you do, I hope you are interested in the questions I ask the Minister and the tightening up I want to see in the approach. Then at the end of the day we'll take stock of that. But I don't recognize myself in the image you're sketching, "Nothing happened at all." You make it very black and white. You say the UWV is shaky. I don't think that does justice to all those 18,000 people at the UWV, who row with the belts they have. Those belts were sometimes more limited in recent years. Fortunately, however, we have been able to add money to this last year, and this cabinet is also going to put resources back into it, in order to offer more personal guidance to people who are in the WW. And I would rather look at the solutions that we are implementing now, to make sure that we do this more firmly and that this does not happen anymore than you say: it is in there or in there. And yes, I would say: if we can learn lessons from that, then we should do it most of all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u36	What a weak bite. You only want to look ahead, of course, because you do not need to be confronted with what has happened in the past, and under whose leadership that was. But I agree with all those who say that the VVD wears big pants to tackle fraud. That is what we read on all the posters: "tack and don't back down." And the moment we have a major fraud on our hands, the VVD is now walking away from it to say, "We're going to investigate, we want to know exactly who's been ducked for his responsibility. Who said within the UWV: "Don't report fraud, it just takes time?" You should want to know that as a VVD. I haven't heard the Minister say that. The Minister also wants to look ahead. But what does the VVD want? Would you like to examine this with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u37	I've asked a lot of questions because I want to know. I call the Minister to that. You say something about those responsible; that is the Minister in this matter. You cannot agree with state law, but in the end the Minister has to answer for this. The UWV has a lot of information about that, that's what they've given. That's true; I've read entire pages of documentation from the UWV, with a lot of information about what they've done in recent years. Is that enough? No, that's not enough. I am very critical of that, and I would like you to address me to that. I hope you also understand that I want us to deal with that and I will talk to the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u38	Let me quote the following from the UWV website: "An executive organisation like UWV constantly monitors the balance between service provision and control." Now I'm leaving out a lot. The following is: "The two aspects of this balance sheet are time-bound; they follow the size of the budget and political changes in the legal mandate." My question to Mr Wiersma is as follows: do you agree with me that in recent years the balance between service provision and control has gone too far towards service provision and that it is now necessary to turn that into control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u39	I think that's a good question, because that's exactly what I just said in my plea. We think it is important that if you have such a good system with each other, that it is not only there to provide benefits to anyone who wants it, but there is above all for anyone who needs it at the time and can claim it legally. That is why we have been so critical of the Minister in the past as to how we do it now. We see that the number of migrant workers is increasing, we see that the number of constructions is increasing to claim benefits when you are not actually entitled to them. You can also see that we are changing rules in Europe. They're gonna make that even easier. We are critical of that. In fact, we do not want those rules from Europe that make it even easier. We want this fraud to be detected, and I will say something about it in a moment. In this way, I have a number of solutions, which I think are easier to do than how we are doing it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u40	So on my question whether that balance should turn from service to control, is your answer "yes"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u41	The signal to the Minister is that I think we should do better. The answer is definitely "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u42	Then I have a follow-up question. I understand that the VVD says that we need to do more checks, because in the past it does not seem to have gone so well. But if this is to be done within the current resources, are you not afraid that this will be at the expense of the service? Do we not all agree that we need to invest extra in this particular area?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u43	We agree with the latter. We also invest in the coalition agreement. There's 70 million going to that personal service. We did so immediately; Mr Smeulders can put that in his pocket. On the other hand, yes, I find that quite exciting. You can see here that speed has sometimes gone beyond care. Then you get what Mr Smeulders also mentioned: that perhaps we do not check too often and go after someone's blue eyes. That cannot, of course, be the intention, because that undermines the basis of what we consider so important together. That's the axe at the root of this social system. I listened carefully to Mr Smeulders' solution and I think we can find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u44	I am pleased that Mr Wiersma is bringing the 70 million out of the coalition agreement, because in every debate we are currently having on social security, the coalition says: we are solving the problems with the 70 million out of the coalition agreement. I would like to know from Mr Wiersma what the 70 million is actually based on and whether he can support the fact that the 70 million actually solves the problems. We have serious doubts about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u45	It's always good to be critical, especially from the opposition. This will take effect on 1 January. I assume that the Minister is going to inform us exactly how he is going to shape this. Yes, I can imagine that we are looking very closely at whether those resources actually lead to what we want, namely more personal help in particular at the beginning of such a period, so that you can give people a push to get back to work instead of giving them an easy push towards a benefit. I would therefore like us to use this money not only for personal guidance to work, but also for personal guidance to people who do not actually deserve that benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u47	If that's enough, we'll see. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the drop, as long as the bucket hadn't turned. News hour suspects that thousands of WW benefits have not been tested for culpability in the event of dismissal and may therefore be wrongly obtained. Madness. Checking that someone is entitled to a benefit is a fundamental core task. Speed in helping people to benefit from community money as quickly as possible sometimes seems to go for care. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to come together with the UWV to a strict check on culpability. The Minister proposes a pilot, which is already getting a bit firmer in yesterday's letter. But that is not enough, because I cannot explain a test for the core task of the UWV and I hope not to explain it to the Minister. So we really want to see more here. I would therefore ask the Minister to deal specifically with this point and with a number of points which I will mention now. I ask him not only to repeat what is in the letter, because we have read it. I really have some very sharp questions that I want to see in the approach later. The first is as follows. The Minister remains vague about the extent of the fraud. Mr Van Dijk also mentioned this. We see samples, but then we see elements from subpopulations and then there's a sample and then there's 100 and then 30% of them may have done something wrong. Can't we just look at the whole population? At some point, 9,000 cases are mentioned. Can't we re-check the entire population? Shouldn't we be able to check retroactively for the job application obligation? The law states a period of two years on which you should be able to discuss what you have done about applications. Couldn't we use that here to get that money back? That would also help, because fraud shouldn't pay off. If we see what was cheated between 2011 and 2018 at a total amount of 370 million within the WW, that is not mild. When we see what is actually being recovered, that is very little. I hope the Minister agrees with us. There have been 1.1 million fines imposed, but these have not always been paid. Apart from the recovery, how big is the whole amount of fraud? Do we have all the possibilities of getting the money back in the picture or does the Minister see any other possibilities? Can we do more? Are the rules we have sufficient? When I hear that we can apparently set up a system in ICT that enables us to turn on ticks that are now off, I wonder how this is possible. Can we solve that faster in the systems? Mr. Chairman. Then the proposed approach to register the intermediaries...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u48	You need to finish up, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u49	Yeah, I'm rounding up. In our view, this proposed approach is really not enough. If we've managed to make it so that our systems can only be understood by intermediaries, then of course we're not doing something right. In addition to the white list proposed by the Minister, I would also like to come up with a black list. I'd like to see if you can distinguish between the legal acts that have been done and the translation with the help of an interpreter. An interpreter we understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr. Wiersma, like everyone else, you have five minutes of speaking time and you're over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u51	I have heard Mr Wiersma correctly, but I have not heard anything about the possible role of temporary employment agencies and the possible wage model. In the first phase, phase A, in which people come to work through a temporary agency in the Netherlands, they do not yet build up rights and pension rights. In that sense, they are cheaper. After that period, they leave. Does Mr Wiersma also see the danger of a possible income model?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u52	I see here that broadcasters complain that nothing is being done with the information they transmit. That's what I'm worried about. If you're just getting it done that these broadcasters are doing it very seriously, then you also want it to be rewarded. I can see that problem. I also see the problem mentioned by Mr Van Dijk in the European context. I am, hopefully, very concerned about that with Mr Van Dijk. We get other rules in Europe, so you may already be entitled to WW here from one month on the basis of your work history. I hope that we will fight this together, because I see that as a much bigger problem than this problem with the employment agencies. We just got it on the road. I see the Minister is talking to the temp agencies. I think it is important that we continue to do so, but not just with the temporary employment agencies. The problem of not checking is much wider than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mr Wiersma is right, but because 80% of migrant workers are employed through a temporary agency, it is an important group. I have a follow-up question. Mr Wiersma sees the danger and that is why I am referring to the Belgian model. That's where you're registered. Temporary agencies and employers register and report that a migrant worker is coming in. That's what they'll do when he leaves. Isn't that an idea to strengthen our system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u54	A brief response, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u55	All the ideas that can strengthen it, help. The deployment of temporary employment agencies must be appreciated. They'll do their best to report it when they see it goes wrong. Then you want that report followed up. At the moment, I consider this report to be more important in dealing with fraud. In a broad sense, I see the risks mentioned by Mr Van Dijk, also specifically in seasonal work, but I see those risks coming mainly from Europe. Shouldn't we be looking at our entire system of social security...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u57	... given the fact that there will be more migrant workers, given that new methods of fraud are being devised? We need to look into that to see if we're prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr Wiersma praised temporary employment agencies. Yeah, I'm sure they're helping, but unfortunately we also have examples in which they cooperate in constructions. There was a whole article in De Groene this week about the butchery sector. With all kinds of constructions, temporary employment agencies ensure that people do not get a permanent job, especially in the case of migrant workers. Does Mr Wiersma agree with D66 that you should see where temp agencies can help, but that you should also be very critical when they cooperate in constructions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u59	We always are. And we see that concern. We not only see them there, but we also see them in truck drivers, for example. Constructions are being devised to avoid working conditions. I think we have all been very critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u60	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a great compliment for the investigative journalism of Newsuur. I think it's appropriate. There have been a number of broadcasts that show very much that things are just not going well. There is abuse of WW benefits, where there are people in Poland, pretending that that is the Netherlands and then pretending to apply through intermediaries. The same was true of this week's report, which showed that the control is inadequate on the really involuntary unemployment of someone entering the WW. Valuable investigative journalism that shows how important it is, also for the proper functioning of democracy. The frauds we have seen are, of course, unacceptable. It is said in different words throughout the Chamber. And rightly so, because we in the Netherlands have a good unemployment scheme for when you lose your job. This is a traumatic experience for people, and we are ensuring that there is good living security. The same applies in case you become disabled, which is really horrible. It's just then that it's important that we deal with people who are really hard on bottles. Mr. Chairman. News hours have found, first of all, that there has been real fraud through intermediaries. I welcome the fact that the Minister has announced decisive action on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u62	I'd like to go into this point. Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of D66, says that the investigation of Nieuwsuur is good for the functioning of democracy. I couldn't agree more. But isn't it true in our democracy that we have a minister who has to inform us and that we shouldn't be dependent on investigative journalism?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u63	Yes, but I find this criticism a little strange, to be honest. I am very pleased with this investigative journalism, but Mr Smeulders is of course quite right that this also raises questions about how we are informed as a Chamber. I'm gonna ask those questions like that. Now that he is challenging me, I found it very unfortunate that there are apparently broader fraud signals that have not been reached in part by the Minister and that have not reached his predecessor. That's what worries me. Furthermore, I find it worrying that we are apparently being informed on such broad lines that we, as a Chamber, cannot keep our finger on the pulse of common and growing forms of fraud. The Minister's suggestion that we should be informed every year, as is the case in the area of care, of the large amounts of fraud and the types of fraud that are emerging, is very good to me. In the past, too much has been said "let's be careful not to give people ideas," which I don't want either. But this has to be done better, and the Minister has quite rightly announced this as far as I am concerned. That doesn't affect my very heartfelt compliments to Nieuwsuur.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u64	I understand that D66 has an interest in defending the minister and defending the solution that was devised at the ministry here. I just wonder if we can rely on that. This morning, the Minister honestly indicated that he did not know these signals at all. Does D66 agree with me that if the minister doesn't get the signals, he can't inform us either? Does he agree with me that we should therefore have a strong debate here on whether the Minister has sufficient control over the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u65	First of all, I think Mr Smeulders is making it a little bit of a policy by immediately starting with coalition/opposition. I'm gonna be asking all these critical questions here. I fully agree with Mr Smeulders that we need to see why some signals have not reached the Minister and his predecessor. I even think that's what I said. But I believe that we in this Chamber have a duty to control the cabinet. So the insinuation he himself wrapped in there, I leave it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u66	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u67	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Apparently that's the new style of GroenLinks. Then I would like to talk about what we are now providing as information...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yes, that was of course... Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u69	I do object to that last remark. I'm just asking a question. Mr Van Weyenberg can simply answer that. I will ask whether Mr Van Weyenberg can take back the words 'this is apparently the new style of GroenLinks', which he spoke at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u70	I note what Mr Smeulders is doing as far as I am concerned. That's up to him, but I thought it was rather small politics to tell you, now that we're talking about big questions, that I'm not asking any critical questions, when I've been working for about less than a minute. I was just about getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr. Chairman. The discussion is partly about a real structural problem and about looming errors when it comes to the control of migrant workers who are not in the Netherlands, but abroad, and the role of intermediaries. I understand that sometimes people need help, for example because they find the procedures at UWV complicated. This applies not only to migrant workers, but also to many people who live permanently in the Netherlands. But the information shows that the Minister does not know a great deal either. What does the fact that some things have not been reported to him for the information between the UWV and the minister, so I ask him, looking at Mr Smeulders? My second question is: how big is the problem now? I note that the Minister says on many issues that he needs more insight. I think the Minister is not vague about this, as I heard someone say, but he is still looking for it himself. My question is how he's going to strengthen that vision. Because only then can we act. And what role do temporary employment agencies and employers actually play in this? I have tabled written questions with Mr Heerma, for example on the report in De Groene on slaughterhouses. There you see under the direction of broadcasters simply construct to let people in and out of the WW and ensure that they do not build rights. Are there specific sectors where this is most prominent? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to this week's news. Are people even unemployed against their will? Do people use the WW as a paid vacation? That's unacceptable. The Minister has just sent the Chamber all his first answers to her questions. I think we have to note that, in the crisis, we have indeed put a very strong emphasis on providing people with early benefits, and rightly so. I do not recognize myself in Mr Stoffer, who says: then perhaps we should do less and maintain better. I think we should both do it at the same time. I hope, by the way, that he agrees with me. The service must be good. If you have to appeal to the WW, you should be able to go there. But it seems that very little has happened with signals from temporary employment agencies or employers that people who suddenly apply for a WW could have just kept working. Can the Minister say more about that? I read in the answers: yes, that's privacy. But on the macro level, so about all the total numbers, the Minister can say what follow-up has been given, how many times has that proved right and how many times there has been enforcement against these people? Shouldn't we also look at ourselves as politics? A number of colleagues have already said that. My answer to that question is: yes, we should. Yeah, things go wrong at the UWV. At the same time, we have made very substantial cuts at that club. The number of enforcers has decreased by more than a quarter in recent years, while there were many more people in the WW. So I would really like to ask the Minister to take a very good look at that. We can expect much from the UWV, we can expect more from the UWV, but we also have to help them, where necessary. I shall come back to that in the second term. And yes, I am glad that I do not think we have entered a general government cut in decades as the first cabinet. And that, when it comes to mediation, in addition to the previous cabinet, we also make a lot of extra money available. Finally. In the past, as an employer, you simply had to check "Is this person unemployed or not?" I don't want to go back to that old bureaucratic system. The Minister is not for that either, I read in the papers. I'll share that. But shouldn't we be doing more customization here? Shouldn't we see if we can better understand risk sectors? We don't want it to go wrong. Finally. I also saw the ICT expert at Nieuwsuur say: "We can get more out of the existing system, we can see better fraud there." I'm always a little hesitant when someone says they can solve that with half a day's work at ICT, but the question is impregnant. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u73	Something really went wrong at the UWV. It's widely shared. The Minister is taking all kinds of measures to restore it now. Nevertheless, I am curious to see D66's opinion on the fact that we should learn from what happened and that I think it is a very healthy response from a Member of Parliament, who controls the government and who stands here for society, that he wants to know what happened in the past. The Minister is responsible; I very much agree with you. But as a Lower House, we can still ask questions to the UWV Summit about how they operated at the time? Why didn't they take care of the fraud back then? Do you agree with me that we should investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u74	I very much agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that we need to have much more insight into what happened there. We've already been briefed on that. I have asked a lot of questions about this, even in my speech. And all of this in a way that we do not have any ideas for fraudsters, but that is not the aim of Mr Van Dijk either. I really want to think through with him about the form in which we can do that and look back. I only get the impression that he now wants to have Mr Bruno Bruins in particular in front of the bench. I've heard him say that quite explicitly. I find that less pure. I would like to look together with him for forms to get information better in the Chamber and also look back. I also think that a lot of people will love to talk to us about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u75	I hadn't said the name Bruno Bruins today. That's another one. It's my job to learn lessons. That is why I think it is very good to hear those responsible, not just Mr Bruins who said at the time: you do not have to report fraud, you do not have to do anything about it. I am very pleased with Mr Van Weyenberg's answer and that he says: yes, it is our duty as a House of Representatives to get the bottom of it and I am happy to watch with you how we are going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u76	Certainly, in which I agree with your colleague Gijs van Dijk, or my colleague Gijs van Dijk, from the Labour Party, that the form I have heard you mention so far is not the appropriate one as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mr Van Weyenberg challenged me a little: shouldn't you bring both control and service to a certain level? We can all agree on that if we had a world where there would be unlimited budget. But you can see that this organization, the UWV, has to make choices within a limited budget. My feeling is that in recent years at least too little control has been chosen. So that balance they're talking about, in my opinion, should be a little bit different now. My question to Mr Van Weyenberg is: do we agree or should we continue to go on with this balance towards services, where control seems to be too little? Well, it turns out we were, 'cause otherwise we wouldn't be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u78	I fully agree that we need to make sure that we do that control much better. By the way, the people who help in conciliation at the front can also play a role in this. If they have more time to help people, if they talk to someone, they might also see an alarm ring earlier: this story is no good. In your story, only some kind of contradiction seemed to arise. I think we can get very far by letting those two walk together. I agree with you when it comes to enforcement. I mentioned myself the sharp decline in the number of people at the UWV enforcement club. I have concerns about whether with more and more people in the WW they can still do that part right, let alone if there are signals coming in that remain. But I would really like to do both, for all those people who are against their will and who really benefit from a very fast and good service. If you become unemployed, you also want to get that benefit easily and quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u79	I am very pleased with Mr Weyenberg's reply just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u80	From Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u81	Van Weyenberg, excuse me. We are deeply concerned that we are sufficiently committed to enforcement. That's what you're saying. We read the Court of Auditors' report, which is also concerned about human power and resources. If it turns out that we really need more, is D66 willing to spend more on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u82	I'm gonna come up with a motion in second term to get a lot more insight into that. If you really think it is too little and you think it should be more, then I want to know if that can be done by people sitting at the front of the UWV, for example, Mrs Van Brenk knows what I mean to give a big role as well. Is there a need to reschedule? Can we do something with a business case? You'll hear the same thing from me in the second term. I find it very difficult to finally answer the question with yes, because I really need to see the Minister's investigation first. But let us be clear: I do not think that anyone in this Chamber is saying that we should just let the fraud go, because we have no capacity. I think we'll all find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mrs. Van Brenk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u84	At least I don't hear a clear no, so I think that's very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u85	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u86	And I would like to ask if D66 is also open to intensive research. I hear you say that you are not in favour of a parliamentary inquiry, but would D66 like to support an intrusive good investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u87	In my opinion, Mr Jasper van Dijk spoke mainly about how we in the Chamber could get even more information. I've asked a lot of questions about that. If there are other forms, I'd like to look at them. I think it can be done in other ways than as proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. In addition, I see that the Minister has announced an entire battery of investigations, including at the UWV. I am going to await his answer as to whether I have the feeling and confidence that we have responded sufficiently to all the critical signals that you and I have both heard, or whether something else is needed. At first, I really need more answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u88	I have a very brief question for Mr Van Weyenberg on the Belgian model. We have Europe, so we have migrant workers from other countries, who will only increase. We have seen this in recent years, in which employers and, in particular, temporary employment agencies are obliged to report when someone comes in, when someone leaves and how long it takes. Does Mr Van Weyenberg see this as one of the possible solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u89	Mr Gijs van Dijk knows that I find everything that is a Flemish or a Belgian model interesting to look at. But without fooling around, I would like to look a little more broadly at the broadcasting sector. I have asked questions about this with Mr Heerma, because I am concerned that they are sometimes the reporter of constructions at the UWV, but unfortunately sometimes also the cause. I will be very serious about any suggestion that could contribute to countering the fraud we are discussing today, including those that Mr Van Dijk has just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr. Chairman. If we do not act harshly against fraud in social security, the system will become untenable. Fraud undermines the acceptance and credibility of the social system. It will be very bad if, on the one hand, fraud is widely tolerated for many years and goes unpunished, and, on the other hand, benevolent people who rightly have benefits are sometimes dealt with hard on a small administrative error. How is this gonna be explained? Mr. Chairman. Automation and austerity appears to be a deadly combination. 50PLUS believes that it is important to put an end to the worrying outcome of this: the six-month work-off and three-month benefit, although it does not really matter whether you are fired or leave voluntarily. You can get a paycheck, a piece of cake. Due to a sharp increase in WW requests, rigorous cuts and automation, the UWV has become a difficult split. Personal contact with the WW applicant was minimal. The smooth handling of many WW requests was paramount and not the care of handling. If a runner gets an unrealistic goal, he won't run any faster, but rather cut off a turn. That seems to happen at the UWV. As a result of an almost impossible combination of ambitions and resources, we are now in a state of crisis. How could it have gotten this far? Why has it been noticed that there is a lack of structural enforcement of rules at such a late stage? Has the UWV board been sleeping? Do employees have too few powers? What went wrong with the communication between the UWV and the ministry? Mr. Chairman. This Minister is in a positive position. We have now received two letters with many good intentions. It is also nice that the Minister is satisfied with the work experience of the UWV. But again, how is it possible that the many distressing signals from those same employees have not led to systematic action by the minister or the leadership of the UWV before? For that, the broadcast of Newsuur was really needed and a stream of negative publicity. For 50PLUS, the most shocking thing is that UWV employees were even discouraged from exposing fraud. So you'd better look away when you see abuses. How demotivating is that? It is also incomprehensible that the ICT system builder at UWV was flagged back with his proposals to optimize the fraud detection system. According to him, fraud wasn't an issue at the UWV. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS believes that, as with the Tax Administration, the entire automation, the work processes, the governance culture and the ICT summit should be thoroughly vetted, as far as we are concerned, by external experts and that action should be taken, including against those responsible, where necessary. The structural, organizational control of the functioning of the UWV needs to be improved. Is the Minister going to take care of that? A lot of fraud can be traced. As far as we are concerned, fraudulently obtained benefits must be repaid. Is the Minister going to take care of that? Does the Minister also assume that an ambitious, intensified fraud approach should be possible within the current UWV budget? We want to see that well-founded. Mr. Chairman. In this morning's letter, the Minister sees no reason to change control or distance from the UWV. How does it exist? Why not? I've got one more point. In the answer, the Minister says: "The UWV has informed me that in monthly reports and quarterly talks between the board of directors there is also attention to fraud. These include signals from employees. However, they have not led to any further investigation.' How does it exist! How disgusting is this? Can the Minister explain this? And can the top of the UWV explain this to the minister? Finally, Mr President. Big cuts have taken their toll. In fact, tolerance is cheaper than maintenance. As Professor of Supervision Femke de Vries last said in Het Financieele Dagblad: "It is time for a good and possibly difficult discussion between the minister and the UWV about ambitions and resources. Setting ambitious targets is simply not free."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A WW benefit is intended for people who lose their jobs against their will. It is not meant to knowingly stop working, to sit abroad for a few months while through a questionable intermediary the appearance is kept high that you are very busy applying here. This deliberate form of fraud, which, according to Newsuur's broadcast, we have had to assume on a large scale, is harmful and undermines our social security system. It directly affects the sense of justice in society. For someone who really loses his job against his will, is really applying really hard I heard several colleagues quote the examples of this and get a fine for turning in a form one day late, someone who knowingly sees that the system is being lifted by people, wonders: why am I being checked and are they getting away with it? Fraud seems to pay off and trying to follow the rules doesn't. That's devastating, but it's also unacceptable. The Minister writes in his various letters that "any form of fraud is too much." That's right, of course. It is also true that these are small and large cases. But precisely because this seems to be a large-scale case of people who are going to be abroad, who have worked here for a few months and who, through these intermediaries, are avoiding the responsibilities that an ordinary job seeker has here, the impact of this is also a little greater in society than in any individual case of fraud. In his letter of early October last week, the Minister indicated various measures he intended to take to punish benefit fraud more severely: a better system of address registration, a less large role for intermediaries, better checks on those addresses, more checks on intermediaries, closer cooperation between other enforcers, better and more often inform the Chamber and, in my opinion, vet the UWV with an external test and an internal audit report on how fraud signals are picked up. These are good steps, but the question, which everyone has already said here, remains why this has not been done before, for example on the issue of address registration. This is not the first debate we have on this subject, is it? So that part of the discussion is not entirely new either. In fact, I believe that there have been announcements earlier that this would happen more. Turns out that didn't happen. So my question is why this has not happened and how we can ensure that it is now going to happen really and carefully and how we are informed as a Chamber so that we can keep our finger on the pulse in that process. To qualify for a WW benefit, actively applying is very important here. The Minister writes in his letter yesterday that this is difficult to control in practice, but I think it is necessary. In addition to better registration of addresses and better cooperation, can we not also consider whether there can be more personal contact, especially with regard to those groups at risk? I think an anonymous UWV employee suggested that. I don't think that suggestion is so crazy. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he can't. I think Mr Wiersma was talking about "a little random" so you can page a name with "you have to come now." But perhaps this could even be structural for those at risk groups. I'd like to hear that from the Minister. Then there is the question of involuntary, non-defeatable unemployment. That is what I have been preparing for this debate over the last few weeks. I know that the SP also asked a question about this in the first written round. How come that doesn't happen? I find myself in this search for a law amendment in 2006, supported by almost all parties in this house. I believe that there was one senator from GroenLinks in two Chambers in the Upper Chamber and in the Lower Chamber, De Wolff, who asked: hey, wait, couldn't this also lead to a WW benefit being given wrongly? In 2006, when that law was being dealt with, it was examined whether this did not involve unnecessary administrative burdens. I understand that, but shouldn't we conclude in 2018, with so many migrant workers, that in addition to providing services, control should have a major role, as Mr Stoffer said very nicely? This also applies to the ex ante check on whether unemployment is indeed involuntary. The Minister wants to do a pilot in the broadcasting sector. I think that's a sector where that has to happen, but a pilot doesn't go far enough for me. I believe that the policy rules for doing this need to be adapted, at least in groups at risk, in seasonal employment, in temporary work and in migrant workers. However, I fear and I believe that there may also be a need for a legislative amendment. I would therefore like to put this question very emphatically, because a pilot is not enough. This must be checked, because it cannot be the case that people choose to become unemployed and then wrongly receive the WW benefit. Mr. Chairman. I know I don't have much time. So let me close briefly with a series of questions. That blacklist for the intermediaries seems to me to be a good thing. I agree with Mr Wiersma. I would also like to say that, in the case of fraud enforcement, should you not also look at administrative enforcement into criminal investigations, and should you not also be able to do so? Finally, that is really the very last one, Mr President-in-Office. I too have the question about these computer systems. Can't we get some more out of it? Is it true that things have been deliberately pulled out? And can no longer be looked back at?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u94	Mr Heerma rightly states that it had been known for years that it went wrong with the UWV, that the ministry was also informed, but nothing happened. You'd almost think, "Would the minister have been squealed by the UWV if that hadn't worked out for years?" How can we help the minister? Wouldn't it be good if we spoke as a room to the UWV summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u95	Mr Van Dijk asks a lot of questions. I also want answers from the Minister to my questions, because I also want to know why we have not been informed of this before. Couldn't more have happened sooner? Hence my question in my term. As far as the role of the Chamber is concerned, I believe that we have a responsibility to keep our finger on the pulse. That is why I am asking to be informed. I would like to add to the reply that Mr Van Weyenberg just gave in the interrupting debate about looking ahead and drawing lessons for the future. The parliamentary questioning, as proposed by Mr Van Dijk, would not be my preferred option either. That is what Mr Van Dijk said, as did Mr Van Weyenberg. But we have to watch each other learn lessons, and how, I very much agree. We have to look ahead and learn lessons. We need to do that as a room active. The way in which I like to talk to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u96	It is not yet clear to me why a parliamentary interrogation would be the wrong way. Anyway, let me see it as a glass that is half full: the coalition agrees that the Chamber should speak to those responsible for this tragedy. That's a good point. Now let's take a look at the address details. The UWV seems to refuse to go to the municipal administration. That's an example. It's been going on for years. There was also a conflict with Amsterdam about this. Mr Heerma knows that. Should we not help the Minister and say: of course, the UWV should use the municipal address information instead of keeping its own dubious administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u97	In his letter, the Minister announced several measures which would make the address administration much better. I was just referring to that. And it will be checked more actively. I think that is a very good thing. My question is above all: is this really going to happen in practice? This kind of thing has been announced in the past, also by previous rulers. So I think it should be done. The administration needs to be much better and more actively enforced. But I would also like to be informed about this so that we as a Chamber can keep our finger on the wrist so that we can check whether it actually happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u98	I know the CDA as a party of values and values, a party with a rich parliamentary tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u99	So much for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u100	Then you must always be careful!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u101	Yeah, that's right. But I am very surprised, or actually I am very curious. What does Mr Heerma think of us as the Chamber, as the highest representative body of the people, having to be informed by the media time and time again and not by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u102	I can only give two answers to this question. There are two things next to each other. Any well-functioning parliamentary democracy requires a good, independent, free press. This has also been recognised in the coalition agreement with regard to investigative journalism. We see in different countries in the world what the lack of such a system does to the democratic system. That should not be underestimated by Mr Smeulders. I am also critical of the fact that things have been going on for a long time and that we have not heard anything about them. I have just asked questions about this in my term. I want answers from the Minister. But that doesn't change the fact that it's handsome investigative journalism and that it's part of any well-functioning democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u103	Finally, Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u104	I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u105	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u106	Of course, that's not the point at all. Mr Heerma knows that too. The point is that we have a minister who does not inform the Chamber. And this morning it turned out that that's because he simply doesn't know either. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that this is just really bad and that we in the House of Representatives should be very concerned about that? And then the most important question: what is Mr Heerma going to propose in concrete terms to ensure that this does not happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u107	You say everyone agrees, but that's not the point. You asked and I answered. I will now answer your second question. I also think that steps should have been taken earlier and that it is strange that we have not heard about this before. The Minister also recognizes this in his letter. If I would then say 'yes, fine, sand on it', would I not ask here whether I can be informed about the state of affairs and whether it actually happens in practice? This is due to the same concern that Mr Smeulders also has. So my request is to be kept informed so that we can check that things are really getting better. If the question is what I propose, then I have just mentioned that as a Chamber we should look critically at ourselves. For we ourselves have in the past adopted legislation which has reduced the active pre-control. The senator of GroenLinks was the only one who asked a question about that at all. That could also encourage fraud. This should lead, if possible, to legislative changes so that we can actively monitor in advance to prevent this type of fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u108	Thank you, Mr. Pieter Heerma. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mr. Chairman. When reading the cabinet letters on fraud involving WW benefits, I immediately noticed that a crucial sentence has disappeared between the first sentences. There is now the following: "Payment fraud is unacceptable. It undermines the support of our social security system." What was the point of that? With regard to the SGP, this is the following: fraud is theft. Fraud is first and foremost stealing from society. And indeed, that can't be explained to people who do their stinking best to get their money honestly. That's been said before. Mr. Chairman. I am not standing here to drill the UWV into the ground, because it is doing its utmost to shape the tension between control and service within the available budget. I can very well imagine what a task every day is. Yet, the culture within the UWV is not well. Employees have been grinding their teeth to ensure that their fraud reports have been ignored. The most worrying thing is that there is already a whole stack of committees, codes, professors and other high-ranking gentlemen to guard integrity. And yet it goes wrong. Can we trust that a new action plan will solve the problem? Shouldn't fraud control be externally invested, as in the past with the supervisory board, precisely because the pressure of austerity and efficiency can be very high? That stays if you put some money in it right away. Monitoring the balance sheet remains a task every day, because the budget will never be unlimited. The UWV writes in the note that fraud should not pay. The SGP considers that to be very friendly. Fraud should cost a great deal, not only the refund, but at least a heavy penalty or fine. Are the penalties that we impose really enough terrifying? Is it true that fraudsters are at least excluded from the benefit for a number of years? Madam President. The Minister announces a whole zip of new measures. That sounds nice in itself, but instead of a better implementation of the rules, we could also examine the rules ourselves. Shouldn't we start at the source? For example, the UWV states that it is legitimate to employ an intermediary, because it is the case that some beneficiaries are not competent in Dutch or not digitive. Why is this an argument to be allowed to use intermediaries? There are already interpreters and Polish brochures, aren't there? Another problem is the right to travel through Europe for the first three months with Dutch benefits. Of course, the SGP sees the benefits of free movement, but haven't we got a little bit out of this? Surely it makes much more sense to grant the benefit in the Member State where you are staying? The only thing the Netherlands has to do is tell the Polish UWV how much law has been built up. Our question is therefore whether the Minister is going to include such points in the negotiations in the EU. Our question is therefore whether the Minister is going to include such points in the negotiations in the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u110	I'm just going to turn to the middlemen, actually criminal administration offices that are being used to help people to deliberately cheat. Of course, that's wrong. The Minister is taking an approach to this. I am listening to Mr Stoffer in such a way that he thinks that this is too little and that only registering intermediaries does not solve the problem. I'll share that with him. Is he also prepared to distinguish between intermediaries who carry out legal acts, who can actually sign signatures, put clients at an address and thus potentially increase fraud, and intermediaries who translate and interpret? Because I don't think that's the big deal. I think it's mainly about having those legal acts. Shouldn't we be stricter on that? So, in addition to the Minister's approach, a somewhat stricter preventive approach to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u111	The answer is yes. Because right there, you're hitting the nail on the head, and that's the problem. I would also like to make that distinction very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr. Chairman. A familiar expression teaches us not to tie the cat to the bacon. The first contribution, by Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP, also mentioned this. That feeling of tying that cat to the bacon also gets the SGP at the basic benefit of three months. Is it not strange that seasonal workers are entitled to three months' benefit after six months' work, so that they can still travel freely throughout Europe? One would almost say that such arrangements provoke the unwanted effects themselves. Is it not time to take a serious look at the status of the basic benefit? The SGP also considers it more logical that workers should first build rights. Especially in the case of foreign seasonal workers, these revolving door payments are unsatisfactory and cannot be explained to those Dutch people who get out of bed early every day, leave the door and just go to work. Mr President, that was my first term, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u114	In my own contribution I have also highlighted the broader impact of seasonal work, for example. I now get the impression that there is a complete focus on migrant workers, but does Mr Stoffer agree with me that this should simply apply to anyone who sits in a sort of revolving door of seasonal work and unjust WW and that nationality does not matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u115	I agree. I am waiting for the Minister's answer, but I have prepared a motion in which this aspect plays a part for everyone. But, of course, I'll wait and see what the Minister thinks first. I agree, but we are talking here specifically about the Polish workers. That's what we're debating right now. But I agree with you that we need to talk about the whole spectrum, because you just don't want to have this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u116	I'm happy with the broadening. Thank you for that. I am certainly also thinking of the case that came to light this week through Nieuwsuur. I really wonder whether this construct is limited in some sectors to migrant workers or Polish migrant workers. I'm afraid to answer that question with yes. I asked the Minister that question, because it could be really wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u117	Mr Van Weyenberg and I are both very curious about what the Minister is going to say in the first term. So, as far as we're concerned, that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u118	That's right. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-5.u119	I'm suspending the meeting until 1:40 p.m. Then we will first swear a new colleague, Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. Then comes the settlement and then the Minister gets an opportunity to answer.
