ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is a legislative procedure on the Transparency of Financial Markets Act. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. We have several speakers who have signed up for five to ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u2	As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. As a sparing Dutchman, you would like to be aware of problems with an Icelandic or Belgian bank, the ship's CV you put your money into or the teak plantation in which you bought shares. Financial supervision has been strengthened in many ways in the Netherlands after the credit crisis, but one point is still not sufficiently regulated. The Dutch Financial Markets Authority and De Nederlandsche Bank may not or hardly use their information to inform customers, ordinary Dutch people, about abuses. So it helps if AFM and DNB are able to clearly raise issues. You want to be able to decide what you invest your money in, but you also want to be sure that you are not bottled by patjepeeers. This bill provides for AFM and DNB to be able to warn against all violations if necessary to prevent damage, to decide on urgent publication and to make certain core bank data public. The VVD welcomes the bill, which is partly the result of a motion by my colleague Aukje de Vries. I think we found the right nuance. On the one hand, the legislative proposal is a bit shattered by the principle of confidentiality in supervision, as the Council of State points out, because the market players share a lot of detailed information and, of course, they do not want it to just go out into the street. On the other hand, this proposal solves a number of real problems. It is not for nothing that reference is made to the parliamentary financial system survey. Nevertheless, there is one point of principle which I would like to raise. In the Netherlands, we take the starting point that the civil liability of the government is not assessed differently than that of private parties; it is now being done for lawyers. But anyone who suffers damage by the government, for example through a tort, can simply appeal to it. That is precisely the principle that we set aside in 2012 for our supervisors. With an article in the Financial Supervision Act, we generously changed DNB and AFM for liability for all doing and leaving in the exercise of their tasks and powers. That was logical in the light of the financial crisis, because after all these nationalizations, of course, we would not have wanted to get involved in lengthy legal proceedings for many years. But still the link to this bill: suppose a bank suffers great damage due to an incorrect warning from a supervisor. Then where can that bank get its rights? That's really not entirely imaginary. The AFM has recently been criticized for the supervision of auditors. This was a subject on which the AFM had explicitly come out and questioned the reputation of large offices. We have a separate debate on this, but let me give you an example. You really want to prevent the bill we have before us from causing that kind of damage. My question is whether the Minister would like to reflect on that. Perhaps he wants to do a hand-out and promise that the issue of liability will be evaluated in a few years' time. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr Van der Linde started with strong lyrics about the importance of transparency and that the Dutch saver should also know when he has to deal with what he even called "patterns" and when it comes to good institutions. Now, in the legal process, the analogy with the auditors has finally been deleted, that research reports may also be made public by the supervisors. I understood in the previous legal treatment that the VVD was very much in favour of this and now Mr Van der Linde says: a good balance has been struck between transparency and secrecy. What's with the turn?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u6	Well, Mr. Chairman, I don't know if it's a turn. But it's a little give and take. I understand the balance that has been sought. The moment you publish a lot of data from banks to prevent a bank run from happening, I get that reluctance. If you remember, then, that there is legislation in the pipeline from Europe, I think: let us wait for it. So, yeah, we might have wanted to move on. At the same time, I think there is a balance here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u7	Well, why it's a twist is because your colleague Aukje de Vries' motion went much further. It also made the analogy with the accounting sector itself. I understand the European debate, but what I understand from the written preparation is that nothing is happening in Europe and that this debate is about to end now and here. And I'm kind of sorry about that. Does Mr Van der Linde agree with me, and I shall say something about this later, that the Minister and the Ministry of Finance should be looking for ways to go beyond what is now possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u8	I would say: let us now take this step. Look, we listened carefully to the Council of State, which was very critical on this point. Then I think, well, here's the nuance. That is why I say: nuance, it is a balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u9	I find it particularly striking that the VVD here says that this bill came about because of a motion from the VVD. But just that motion of the VVD didn't ask for a bill, but simply asked for it as soon as possible and at the latest this autumn, so it is a little later to come up with a bill to make it legally possible for supervisors in the financial sector to report on their findings per company, as is also done in the accountancy sector. And just that part, so making reports public by company, has been taken out. Then what does the VVD think of European rules protecting banks better than auditors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes, but that's why I'm referring to the disadvantage that exists in the form of a bank run and unwanted effects that no Dutchman gets better. Just back up: what is the common Dutchman's point of view? He'd like to be warned of wrongdoing. I think we've settled that properly now. You will not be happy if a bank run is created and your savings are lost, and then you will have to get that money back through the deposit guarantee scheme. So yes, we have been sensitive to the critical attitude of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u11	Yes, Mr. Chairman, this is not an answer, is it? You can prevent a bank run in many ways: smaller banks, higher buffers, separate all kinds of commercial business from utility cases, actually all the lessons we received from the parliamentary survey on the financial system, which has not been whistled and which is completely out of control in Europe. It's free play for the banks again. And if you're chasing and then you're a patjepeeer, and the supervisor finds that, then that shouldn't even be made public. Then what kind of bill do we have here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u12	Now I don't know where Mrs. Leijten has been for the last ten years. We've put banks back at the centre of their customers in every possible way, we've nationalized, we've imposed extra rules, we've built additional buffers. Then Mrs Leijten isn't going to tell me that nothing happened for ten years and that the banks are just going back to business? I mean, we have to stay critical...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u14	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u15	We need to stay critical, you know, all of us. And we have to make sure that the ordinary saver is just properly served. But don't tell me we haven't done anything in ten years. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u16	Final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yes, Chairman, it is a truly remarkable turn of the VVD. Where they tabled a motion two years ago that said: "Well, it's all done with reports that contain crucial information that should simply become public, here again we have the defender of secrecy for commercial organizations that make mass profits and that can speculate with the savings of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. A brief final remark. That's how we do it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr Van der Linde should protect the consumer and not the banks. And where have I been for the last ten years? Here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u20	I've been here for the past five years, and I've had enough. But I'm gonna go back to that ordinary saver anyway. He's gonna be warned by this bill if something's wrong. I think that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Leijten, whom I have seen here for ten or twelve years. It speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u22	The Transparency Supervision Financial Markets Act gives regulators more opportunities to disclose information about banks and financial institutions. The law as it stands now takes a few steps in the right direction, but does not touch the core. What do we need for a secure financial system? Isn't that the guarantee that our money isn't being gambled? Or that you didn't talk about Mr Van der Linde even about patjepeeers being sucked into all kinds of financial products, which you don't understand, which you don't really need and which are only there for the financial sector itself? We have a hearing tomorrow on interest rate derivatives. That's a long-lasting file. If it had all been public in advance, would people have been better protected? I think you should just say: good product authorisation in the financial market, good supervision and when things are not going well, take off products and withdraw authorisations from institutions. We're supposed to be a lot tighter. I ask the Minister for his response to this. Now the Authority Financial Markets and De Nederlandsche Bank can publish warnings if institutions commit infringements. It's kind of weird that it never could. According to the Financial Markets Authority, infringements, such as failure to comply with your duty of care or obligation of information, are not occasional but structural. Then I wonder: how is it that these products are still there and how can these institutions still do so? You can always make a mistake, but the structural character says something else as far as I'm concerned. If this is all transparent in the future, it is absolutely beautiful, but is that the solution to wrong behavior, structural error behavior? The second step that is taken is that a supervisor can respond to false statements or statements by market participants. This means that the Authority can correct Financial Markets or De Nederlandsche Bank if something is wronged by a commercial party. That seems to me to be excellent, and it seems to me to be a good thing that we have supervisors who are more on top of it and who say: best consumer, best saver, best investor, you should not fall for this for a moment, because results achieved in the past are no guarantee for the future. That kind of euphemistic talk, of course we don't fall for it. But I would like to know what kind of situations the regulators would have liked such an urgent publication to have been able to do, and what is now possible if the consumer would have been protected. Can the Minister give us some examples of this? The third step comes from the parliamentary survey financial system, the De Wit Committee, which recommended publishing on the health of key figures of financial institutions and banks. It's kind of weird that it hasn't. Can the Minister let us know when the General Measure of Governance comes, can he be a little strict and just transparent? We don't have anything to hide, do we? The government says we drag all the information from citizens together to do research and to prevent terrorism. They're all potential suspects, but apparently the banks don't have to publish. There may also be risks to the financing of terrorism in the entire financial system, but that is what we are talking about at another time. I think it's okay if we get that published. I welcome the fact that the consumer can look up the risks. I welcome the warning given to the consumer, but can the Minister tell me how he looks at the idea: you have been warned, you have chosen for it and now the government or the financial sector is no longer blamed, should you have chosen better? Where exactly is that line? That actually affects my first question: when are we really going to test financial products properly and take them off the market if they are not good, and when are we actually going to take away their license from financial institutions if they are just gambling with the public interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u23	I'm listening very carefully, but I lost Mrs. Leijten for a moment. Was she suggesting, in a sense, that the current structure of the banks encourages terrorist financing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u24	No, but of course our financial system facilitates this with tax avoidance. I don't know if you've read the Panama Papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u25	Yes, but I'm just looking, because we're talking about transparency of supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yeah, I made a comparison. On the one hand, it is said: "You have nothing to hide, so the government is allowed to drag everything in from you and analyze everything, for imagine you are a terrorist; in fact, everyone is suspected until proven otherwise." That is what happens with the drag law, but on the other hand nothing should become transparent with the banks. It is now becoming a little more transparent, but that seems very logical to me, also because we know that fraud, criminal money and also terrorist financing are obviously carried out through financial constructions. You can't look away from that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u27	I've completely lost you. We have financial supervisors and they know everything about these banks: they can look through everything, see every money flow, and they get detailed information. I completely miss what this has to do with terrorist financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u28	It was a comparison, namely that we are dealing on the one hand with a government which apparently protects the transparency and secrecy of the banks, while at the same time saying to the citizen: we want to know everything about you, because you are actually suspected until proven otherwise. I think it is good that we have transparency, but I do not think we should be naive either. That is why I am on a slightly different course from Mr Van der Linde. He says that secrecy and confidentiality are paramount. No, as far as I am concerned, consumer protection and the protection of the public interest are paramount. When it comes to tax avoidance and its consequences, we have had a lot of debates here about which black sides are involved. It is not just a question of hiding a little money from the tax authorities, but also of making war and trafficking possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u29	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u30	The fourth step in the right direction is the implementation of the De Vries motion, namely the publication of research reports. Where this is very common among hospitals and individual health care providers, I know all about this, it seems that this is not the case with financial institutions. I think that's really weird. The Council of State then says: well, there are European rules and it may be that they do not approve of them. Those reports are already published to the auditors, which is the law, but it seems that the banks and the financial institutions are unable to do so. I ask the Minister: do we see here, in the fact that financial institutions are better protected than auditors, the power of those institutions in Europe at work? And, you know, I don't need to be an accountant here, because we can also have solid debates about that, but I think it's really very strange that, for large financial institutions, it doesn't apply to just publishing a research report. I have tabled an amendment to restore this. That amendment will be distributed if it is properly distributed now, or perhaps in five minutes' time. I think the bill has a good point. These are steps in the right direction, but I find it very strange that you can 'names and shams' with accountants, as it is called, and not with financial institutions and banks. As I said, we are taking steps in the right direction. More information becomes clear, but we are talking here about the small and medium-sized banks, because they are under our Dutch supervision. We are not talking about the large system banks, which are under the supervision of the European Central Bank and which are not controlled by the European Court of Auditors or by our own General Court. That's a problem. Two or three years ago, as SP, we tabled a motion together with the CDA to do something about it. I would like to know how that motion was implemented. I really want us to make sure that supervision of these large banks is made transparent. Mr. Chairman. There is also an entire sector that is not actually supervised: the shadow banking sector. These are bank-like activities of lending or financing that are carried out without being a bank or in any case licensed on the basis of which supervisors supervise. It's 200 billion a year. How can we get a grip on that? Does the Minister have any idea about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. This brings you to the end of your first term. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The draft law before us today can count on the support of the CDA. It gives us greater transparency in the financial markets and gives the supervisors better powers. As Mr Van der Linde said, the mess can be raised. It allows the AFM and DNB to publish, under conditions, warnings in the event of breaches of the regulations or of orders made by or under the Financial Supervision Act. The AFM and DNB will be given more extensive access to an urgent procedure for accelerated or immediate publication of warnings or penalty decisions in response to public statements by the offender. DNB should have core bank figures made public. This is currently done through agreements between DNB and banks and is now required to do so. But we can give the regulators tools to be able to report transparently on financial markets, if the supervisor doesn't have tools to enforce unwanted developments, something goes wrong. That is why I would like to make another point today, which is in line with the AFM's warning last week through its chairman. That warning concerned products where price increases and decreases can be speculated on, such as binary options and also bitcoin futures. In recent years, the CDA, sometimes together with the Labour Party, has called for attention to be paid to the undesirableness of investing in binary options. At least we see binary options as more gambling. It's just gambling. Just like roulette, you bet even or odd, and you get right or wrong. It's more like gaming than investing seriously. This line now continues seriously with the rise of the bitcoin, the so-called bitcoin futures. The AFM does these kinds of warnings for a reason. In the case of binary options or derived products.................................................................................................................................................. You can join with one click. So today's question is simple: what will the Minister do with the AFM's warning? But with warning alone, we're not here. Transparency alone is not enough. The CDA likes to see the line that Belgium uses also apply in the Netherlands. Forbidden that shit, we'd say. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he sees this and what he's going to do about it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr. Chairman. In the beautiful report of the WRR Society and financial sector in balance, the board quotes the International Monetary Fund: "The large number of financial innovations makes the economic system more resilient and stable." How wrong was this finding, which was made in 2006? Not much later, it was precisely these complex financial innovations whose risks no one knew about, which plunged the world economy into a deep, deep crisis. Society had become too dependent on a dominant financial sector, the question being what it actually contributed to the general interest of our society. In fact, the WRR said that dependence should be reduced. The WRR said that the influence of and exposure to financial dynamics is too great. That WRR report is from two years ago and is a reflection of the previous crisis. If you look at the financial markets now, you can only do so with great concern. Due to the persistently low interest rates, capital is looking for return. That brings with it big and new, or old, risks. New technology creates new risks, not only in products but also in the way they are handled. Speed is increasing in markets which are not already hampered by slow decision-making and careful, rational considerations. Mr. Chairman. In this context, I have looked at this law: in the context of lessons from the past and current developments. Then, of course, I agree with the proposals on the advocacy of DNB and AFM to give supervisors more opportunities to publicly warn and publish warnings and decisions with urgent procedures. In this context, I understand that attention is also being paid to the legal protection of the institutions. But still, when you read the file, a number of things stand out for me. The explanatory statement begins with the importance of transparency, how important it is for the restoration of confidence in the financial sector. But it is very soon about confidentiality and professional secrecy, one of the arguments that when supervisors publish too much data, companies will be less inclined to share information with supervisors. I find that a curious argument. That sounds a bit like blackmail, that's what I'm asking the Minister. If you do your job well, then we don't cooperate anymore, is about what financial institutions say to the supervisors. Then I will read the internet consultation again. I see two arguments put forward by the parties in the financial world: secrecy and their legal protection. After the Council of State was critical, I very much admit that to Mr Van der Linde and pointed to the European directives on confidentiality, the publication of research results from the bill was deleted, whereas that disclosure was precisely the wish of the entire Chamber, including through the motion of VVD member Aukje de Vries. I do not see anywhere in the preparation of this bill that concerns the sector about consumers and how the sector can contribute to greater transparency, security and confidence among people. If you look at the input of the sector, it goes into the whole preparation of the bill on their importance, their legal status, their protection and their confidentiality wish. Then I think with a deep sigh: the financial sector still has a long way to go. Does the Minister recognize this sigh? Among other things, Aukje de Vries' motion contained the analogy with the accountants, on which the AFM may publish research reports and where data can be traced back to companies. The great advantage of this is not only transparency itself, it is not just names and shams. The great advantage is also that the sector itself is going to think about its own functioning in society and that it does not avoid fundamental discussions. Of course, the auditors will continue to pull and push, but it will lead to a meaningful debate that can lead to improvements and ultimately to a better functioning sector in which society has confidence. That is exactly what the WRR report was about: restoring balance between the financial sector and society. Then I have two specific questions about removing the publication of research proposals from the legislative proposal. The first question is: is this debate now to end or is the Minister prepared to continue working with the supervisors to find ways to make proposals or to stimulate this debate at European level? Two: I have also looked at the AFM's annual reports and I was wondering whether the AFM or De Nederlandsche Bank itself, or together with all the information on which they may eventually publish, could produce an annual monitor showing how many warnings they have given and how many offences they have detected about which they have or have not published. This is about the overview of the offenders and the seriousness of the infringements, with an analysis by the supervisors of what is actually happening in the sector. In fact, I would ask the Minister to ask the regulators in a creative way what can be published at the end of a year, so that the social and political debate on what role the financial sector plays in society and whether it is better or worse, will be somewhat stimulated. Then we can think again about how we can improve that. Mr. Chairman. This bill shows how complex the supervision of our watchdogs is. I told you, quick changes, a lot of capital and new risks. When I read the documents, I read about waiting times, appeals and legal protection for companies. On the other hand, I am thinking of algorithm trading, bitcoins and financial innovation. It seems as if we are dealing here with two worlds with two dimensions of time: the slow world of sound and careful supervision, which thinks and acts in days, weeks and months, and the fast world of fintech and new innovations, which works in seconds and milliseconds. What does this mean for supervision, especially when you consider that financial corporations tend to constantly seek the limits of the law? For a possible subsequent amendment of the Financial Supervision Act or for subsequent discussions, I would like the Minister and the supervisors to pay attention to this. I'd like a response. Finally, the following question. Once again, we see that the financial innovations are going very fast, as if we were back in 2006, but with even better and faster technology. In advance, new products cannot be tested. Not until something goes wrong, the AFM intervenes. Now, like the Wiffels Committee, the WRR has advised to prescribe institutions and to oblige them to always offer standard versions of products, including complex products. This helps consumers and prevents people from being tempted to invest in overly complex products. Is the Minister prepared to review this proposal again and can this help in the organisation and transparency of the market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66, who joined us a little later in connection with a hearing he had to attend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Madam President. In recent years, confidence in the financial sector has deteriorated considerably. Several people have already said this, and that is a weak expression, because in addition to the crisis, we have had a series of incidents that have undermined the old image of the banker and the accountant as beacons of reliability in our society. I myself served under Mr Nijboer in the Panama Papers Interrogation Committee. That committee examined the trust sector and the tax advisory practice. Tomorrow we will have another hearing on interest rate derivatives. Often enough we find constructions that we think: this cannot be true. This is also the title of a book about the London City. This image also touches the silent majority who is in good faith. Trust is hard to win back. There are many initiatives. The sector is developing a cultural change, but as in any sector, incidents will continue to exist and it is important to isolate them, correct the underlying practice and allow the fresh air of transparency to work. As the progressive U.S. judge Louis Brandeis said in the essay book Other People's Money and How The Bankers Use It: "Sunshine is said to be the best disinfectant." In English: daylight is the best disinfectant. That's why D66 welcomes this law. A strong and effective regulator is an important pillar in the financial sector. We do not want to raise a lion who, when it matters, has to sit on its claws. This is all the more true when a third party in the media presents a picture of alternative facts to help itself. If we want an effective supervisor, then we need to align the force field. And transparency is central to this. It is not for nothing that the entire Chamber voted in favour of Aukje de Vries' motion which gives supervisors the opportunity to report on a company. It is not often that the Chamber is so united. But, Mr President, new freedoms also bring new responsibilities. We know our supervisors as institutions that make careful consideration. It should be, because the effect of naming-and-shaming can be profound. By warning about malpractice in time, harm can be avoided for consumers, but the other side of the coin is that a public ruling by an authority or central bank can also damage the reputation of a company. And that calls for a high degree of prudence from the supervisor himself. The proposal lays down that disclosure should not lead to disproportionate harm, but whether harm is proportionate or not should be assessed by the supervisors themselves, just as they should consider whether or not to proceed with an urgent procedure in the social interest. Even though we see a supervisor who feels responsible, we must keep an eye on the vulnerability of putting judgment and supervision into one hand. Justice doesn't discriminate between the police and the judge for nothing. The question is, how does the Minister view this? Does he agree with us that a more objective test can play a role in preventing any appearance of arbitrariness? In concrete terms, does he see room for a test moment before data is made public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u38	There is one thing that has been taken out of the law that I think is very useful, and that is the publication of research reports by financial institution. What does D66 think about this being taken out of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u39	The aim of the law is to improve the position of consumers. We are convinced that this still works with the current version. We would have liked it to remain in the law if it had not been for the Council of State to advise us not to do so and to believe that this would be contrary to European law. Then, of course, there is little point in including this in a law here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u40	Yeah, the Council of State says this could be possible. You can also say: well, we do that to the accountants and we want to do that to the financial institutions and the banks; if that is not allowed by European law, then we hear it and then we amend the law again. Of course you can. Not only members of parliament, but also ministers regularly fail to listen to the opinion of the Council of State. My question is: why does D66 agree that we should do so with accountants, but that we have apparently protected banks in European law because this may affect their commercial interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u41	You're asking multiple questions at the same time. I do not think we are saying that you should follow the Council of State automatically, but it is important to take it seriously. We were, of course, not familiar with the Council of State's argument that this would probably not last under European law. What we are aiming at with this law is, of course, a step towards greater transparency. We are making that step very clear. Naming-and-shaming is possible. This strengthens the position of consumers. We have also supported the motion calling for the research results to be considered. At the moment, the question is whether this can be done at all. We also do not know what the outcome will be. We could definitely reconsider that at a later stage. All in all, including the advice of the Council of State, I think it would be wise not to include it in the law at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer. Mr Nijboer speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u43	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. People need to be sure that if they take a product from a bank or somewhere else, they won't be fooled. That has happened too often in the past. The usury policy affairs of the 1990s are still unfinished. It's a good thing we can get insight into this law now. For example, the AFM can issue warnings if products that are sold by financial institutions are not good. The PvdA therefore supports this law; you can see that from this. But of course this law is not the solution to the problems in the financial sector. We have taken a lot of measures in the area of accountancy in recent years. A predecessor of mine as a financial spokesman, Mr Plasterk, started with the PVV at the time and we, as a Chamber, continued to do so. Higher buffers are required at banks. There is also more supervision and the obligation of care is legally anchored. Often with fresh reluctance from the VVD, especially when it comes to the ban on bankers' bonuses. But the VVD, and I would also like to commend it, has taken the initiative to make the AFM and DNB supervisors public what has gone wrong with financial institutions. Well, that might help a little. So that's why we support that law. I have two more substantive questions about that law. One of them was already saying to Mr Snels van GroenLinks, namely why we are not going to make those investigations and research results public. Mrs Leijten has just asked for this in an interruption. That seems to me to be a good thing. My second question is: what are we going to see as a Chamber of Appeals that are still in the financial sector and fines that have been imposed? Do we get some sort of overview of that and are the AFM and DNB going to publish that too? I did not start this debate with anything else in a broader context, because I do not believe that this law will make the entire financial sector healthy. I don't think any of my colleagues are expecting this either. But there are some abuses that we can do something about. Mr Ronnes already referred to it. Those binary options are just thick shit. You're losing 90% of your inlay. You know that in advance, at least, you might know that, because the AFM warns but doesn't act. The Belgians have forbidden it. We should do the same. Bitcoins are a bit of the same sheet a suit. I will not say too much about it, because we are going to have a separate debate on it, but I would ask the Minister to respond to it. The AFM and DNB warn time and time again: watch out for these products; do not take them off; do not invest in them; do not do so, for things are going wrong. But they're not doing anything about it. They can't do anything about it. Then you can be so transparent and warn, but if you are not allowed to act, there is something wrong. Does the Minister see that, too? Is he willing to see if bitcoin surveillance can be provided? Mr. Chairman. Finally. A number of products have been sold in the past. Tomorrow we'll talk about interest rate derivatives again. They've been sold to entrepreneurs. But there is still no solution to the usury policies either. What is the state of affairs of all those products that have been sold, which the AFM has already warned against? This is already known. When will this finally be resolved? Is the Minister prepared to give an overview of the sanctions that will eventually follow for banks and other financial institutions if they do not comply with the timetable? It's been 20 years with these usury policies. It's unbelievable. With those interest rate derivatives, it runs out every time. There are some other products, a little less large and in submarkets, which are not good either. Honestly, we keep saying things aren't going well, but there's no time frame for sanctions. We don't know when it's over. Is the Minister willing to give it to you? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijck from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr. Chairman. I do believe that the Chamber of Parliament supports this bill. It is a step in the right direction. The PVV also welcomes the fact that the AFM and DNB are given more opportunities to share information and to warn the public about malicious products and institutions. This contributes to more transparent supervision, and that is, of course, a good thing. The PVV does have three comments, first of all on the research reports. Other Members of Parliament have said something about this. We find it ridiculous, of course, that these are not simply made public. That's what the AFM is asking. That is what Aukje de Vries' motion for a resolution, which has been adopted by Parliament. So that motion is not being carried out. The Minister is hiding behind Europe, or behind the Council of State, which warns, but that is, of course, nonsense, because the Netherlands is about its own supervision and transparency. We must protect the Dutch consumer in our way. If it's useful to present research results, we should just do it. The consumer must know that. Naming-and-shaming helps prevent fraud and improve consumer information and protection. That's the purpose of this bill, I think. Why else would you do these tests? The motion by Aukje de Vries and the AFM also prevents a particular sector from being treated in the same way. This is also in the interest of the industry and the institutions themselves. So can the Minister say again why he didn't include this possibility in the bill? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the discretionary power of supervisors. In the explanatory statement, I read that in making warnings public, supervisors can decide whether to do so. I think that's a little weird. Bringing out too much information can cause an institution to get into trouble, because nobody has any more confidence in it. At the same time, citizens must be warned. The question is how supervisors will deal with this gap in the future. Shouldn't this be more grip? How can we prevent one institution from being blamed with a warning and not the other? The danger of arbitrariness. I miss the criteria for this. Can the Minister comment on this discretionary power and whether there is no arbitrariness? Finally, Chairman, we read that in 2016 the AFM issued 22 public warnings, DNB never. The cabinet indicates that DNB is using the warning less quickly because it is less suited to prudential supervision. It could lead to unrest and deterioration of the institution's financial position. DNB therefore does not publish warnings, so it puts the interest of the institutions above the public interest. Mr President, this can never be the intention. And then the DNB also gets the discretion to decide whether to make something public or not. Mr President, how is the Minister going to ensure that DNB also takes its public responsibility by timely warning consumers of abuses, that they are not allowed to decide for themselves and to side with the institution? Finally, the DNB also has a duty of care to consumers in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The SP amendment, signed by Mrs Leijten, is now being distributed. The Minister has requested 15 minutes to 20 minutes' suspension. We'll continue at noon. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u47	I am reopening the meeting and I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Members of your Chamber for the many questions and also the thoughts that have been shared with me. It is a technical subject, but it is quite right that a number of Members, such as Mr Nijboer and Mrs Leijten, have said that it is also, of course, on a number of larger issues. I wanted to continue the line taken by the previous Minister, who started 100% in line with the De Vries motion and then took the opinion of the Council of State to heart and sat down with DNB and AFM again. Reading myself, I had the same tendency, but at some point I stumbled upon the opinions of the Council of State, on which I shall say a few words in a moment. This legislative proposal, of course, contributes significantly to making the supervision of financial markets more transparent and, in my view, also responds to a need of the public, of politics, as expressed here in a motion, and of the supervisors to be more open. Transparency and confidentiality are of course both important for financial supervision. This legislative proposal is also about transparency of the results of monitoring. This is called naming-and-shaming more domestic and in good Dutch. Its purpose is not so much naming-and-shaming as such, but promoting compliance. Public supervisory information can also have an impact on reputation, and in this way it can also influence citizens in doing business with those market players. I think that's exactly what it's supposed to be. It is precisely the anticipation that can of course ensure desirable behavior right at the front. What is the point of transparency? That is confidentiality, which is not an unimportant fact in this debate. This confidentiality and the safeguards that exist are, of course, also linked to the obligations to provide information to the supervisor. This confidentiality, to which the VVD referred, among other things, ensures that institutions are inclined to provide that information and the supervisor can do that work, that supervision undisturbed. An extreme example of this is that you would like to do so in a situation where there is a risk of a bank run. So the bill is looking for balance, looking for a new balance sheet and a new balance sheet. In this consideration, we have come to this proposal, and I see very clearly that on the one hand the Chamber might have wanted a little more transparency, but on the other hand it is also concerned about liability and confidentiality. I think these are both valid points. So that's what we've been trying to find that balance in. In my opinion, Mr Snels van GroenLinks, in particular, accepted that this transparency would run into a number of legal realities, but at the same time asked whether this should be the end of the debate immediately. I can honestly imagine that question, even though I began to read this file myself with the implicit logic of the motion adopted by the whole Chamber in mind. My proposal would actually be to agree that at least on this point I think that there are more points to evaluate the law in a year or two or three to see what this has achieved. We're going to a new situation, changing a few things. I therefore think that we should check whether we have made that balance better and well enough or whether there is room for further improvement. Frankly, I myself am very inclined to question the AFM and DNB again on what this has resulted in. I would like to say this to Mr Snels when it comes to his question whether this is the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr Snels has a question because he referred to the annual monitor. Maybe he'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u50	Certainly, the Minister has now answered my first question. The debate is not closed and I welcome the commitment to look at the possibility of more legislation in the context of an evaluation. My second question was about an annual monitor. There is now a great deal of public information that is being published, a bit at the end of the year, with a big bow on it, a kind of analysis of what is going on with the sector. We are getting a picture of that. That is the analogy with the accounting sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mrs Leijten and Mr Nijboer also asked about this, also in the light of the wider debate. I'll get back to you, also because this has something to do with the AMvB. Then I will find out whether I have answered Mr Snels quickly enough or not. Mr Paternotte stressed that the supervisory authority would be given more powers. I do not see him sitting in the Chamber, but let me answer him anyway. He was wondering about the objective test. It is very important, given the impact on those involved, whatever we think of it, that we do the publication carefully. Therefore, this proposal also provides for appropriate legal protection if a supervisory authority wishes to publish. I call that very explicit. The AFM and DNB must always take a formal decision. If an interested party subsequently considers that this decision has not been properly balanced, that party may seek a judgment from the court. This meets the objective test requested by Mr Paternotte. I think I am now with Mrs Leijten's question on the AMvB. She asked when it was coming, and what exactly is in it. Mr Nijboer also referred to it. The figures that DNB will publish are indeed identified in an AMvB. Out of my mind: I think the internet consultation ended last week. These were a number of important key figures, quite frankly a very sad figure, and we have tried to go to the limit of what we can and can do within the limits of the law. I say this in the direction of Mr Nijboer, because I fully understand what he wants. There's a need for more numbers, but at the same time you don't want to drown in them. We have looked at what we can do in this respect, given the limits of the law. Moreover, at some point, after the AMvB has come into force, you should also want to assess whether this is actually helping, or whether it is the package Mr Snels referred to, which we all think will lead to greater transparency and ultimately better behavior. That too is a possibility, whether that is in two or three years' time, to check again with each other and especially with these two parties, the AFM and DNB, whether it helps enough or whether anything else is needed. Then I will be with the research reports and Mr Van Dijck's question. He asked why this wasn't taken. In my view, that is exactly the question we all started with, at least I am: what about now and what about the opinion of the Council of State? To be honest, the Council of State is not lenient on a number of elements of the initial legislative proposal and is quite firm on the issue of the relationship with European law. The Council of State writes that general powers in the Wft must comply with rules in many underlying European directives. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er in totaal 36.]] It focuses to a large extent on professional secrecy. I don't know if it makes sense for me to mention them all, but it's a relatively long list. These include the Capital Requirements Directive, the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive, and the Solvency II Directive, as Mr Van Dijck knows. So we have really looked at it, but we see no alternative but to take the opinion of the Council of State to heart on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u52	We have also asked extensively for this in the written preparation. At that time we also saw the list of directives and regulations from Europe. It puzzles me, however, when it comes to care institutions, but also accountants, for example, that it is possible to publish supervisory reports per institution. Why is this different for the financial sector, for example, than for healthcare institutions, where you are also dealing with privacy data, professional secrecy and so on? If you keep it in the financial sector, why is it different for the accounting sector than for the financial sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u53	That is a very fair question, which I, of course, had myself. At the same time, I have great confidence in the Council of State. I think we all have great confidence in that. The Council of State says in all objectivity, looking at what the European rules are now and not looking at how we might want the rules: this is going to be an impassable path. This, government, you shouldn't. I think it is right that all my predecessors and then I have said: unlike the intuition we had and unlike the intuition the Chamber had on this point, we have little choice. We want to go as far as we can, but there is no point in building something beautiful, and then the judge says at the first opportunity: go back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u54	I'm in a different game. That is why I tabled the amendment. My question was actually another one. That's what I set in my term. Why is it different for the sectors? What can we make of that? Is the financial sector so much better protected when it comes to commercial interests in Europe than accounting, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u55	Again, it is a fair question, but Mrs Leijten also asks, of course, why the legal history is as it is at European level and why there is a distinction between auditors on the one hand and banks on the other, for convenience. That is a fair question, but it is not so easy to give a very specific answer. The beginning of the answer is that we must acknowledge that they are different animals. They're both walking around in the financial arena, but they're doing something else. It seems that it has been felt that this House has given its assent, where directives have naturally passed here, that certain rules apply to banks and that other rules apply to accountants. I am simply dealing with a legal fact, which the Council of State emphasizes. I do not think it would be prudent from the cabinet to say that we do not really care about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u56	I would like to conclude with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u57	We think differently about how we deal with it. I will explain that in the second term. Perhaps we will come to that when you assess the amendment, although that has actually already been done. It is very strange when it comes to legal protection that one sector has more legal protection than another. Actually, that's what I'm asking. I think it's really crazy. I'm not saying anything about the Council of State and about showing courage and then going to court. That's not the way we judge it. But I think it's so weird. Legal protection still belongs...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u59	In the commercial sector to which both the financial sector and the accountancy should be the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u60	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u61	There's more to the banks. Mr Nijboer has rightly referred to this. Of course, we are still talking about this. In order to take an advance on the remark he made and which I simply endorse, the banks had to do with a great lack of confidence. They have done a number of things, and Mr Nijboer referred to them too, and I think we all say that they help. At the same time, we note that there is more they need to do. Trust has not been restored and we are far from there. I think that's what we're still talking about. At that level of abstraction, I very much agree with what Mrs Leijten and Mr Nijboer have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u62	I find it strange that this Minister should let his ears hang on to Europe and whether or not Europe should. He is responsible for the Netherlands, and the Dutch consumer must be protected. If the supervisor finds certain malpractices and investigates them, then he should be able to share them with the public and say: boys, beware, that institution with those products, don't burn your fingers on them? But Brussels is not allowed to do so now, with all the consequences. We are now still in the post-zero period of the usury policies, the derivatives and so on. In other words, this minister must choose the Dutch consumer and the Dutch institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u63	From the political point of view of Mr van Dijck, I understand that he does not automatically embrace everything that comes from Brussels. I would like to insist that what we are doing here is actually helping the Dutch consumer. Not only do I think so, but I think it is also a majority in the Chamber; that is what the AFM thinks, that is what DNB thinks. That's really important to note. Something else is what you have to do as a government with the law. It seems to me very logical that you should respect that law, especially when changing it is not directly in our power, and that you should comply with it in a new bill. We took a different path at first, but the Council of State said: "Don't do that, we don't think that's wise, because your cabinet, your government is going to run up against the door or against the wall; that's unwise and you shouldn't do that. I think that has been very prudent of my predecessor. I agree with that view, and that is why we are going through the bill in the same way. Then perhaps we will not get the full pound and perhaps we will not get everything that the De Vries motion intended, but we will take some very important steps. I think that's exactly what we're trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u64	No one denies that either: it is a step in the right direction. But what matters is that the industry itself has an interest in it and that it has a preventive effect when that taking and shaming takes place. In that case, the industry will no longer be treated in the same way, but will be dealt with on an individual basis. The industry itself has an interest in this. If the industry wants it, the regulator wants it, the consumer wants it, and if this minister wants it, and the whole Chamber wants it, then we are not going to leave it because it might not be possible for Brussels to do so. Then we are happy to make the way to the European Court of Justice and we are going to bring Brussels to justice, instead of giving Brussels the floor here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u65	I think, as you say so beautifully, it's subtly different. I think I have just tried to explain why we simply have to respect the law and why we are also making the choice we are making. But I also say to Mr Van Dijck what I have just said to Mr Snels: let us agree that, precisely because we are looking for a new balance... We are going to do some new things that we think are really helpful and really sensible, but we also don't know exactly how that will work out. We also don't know exactly how the regulators will find it unpacked. So let us be able to evaluate that in two or three years' time and then see how it works out and what conclusions we should or should not draw from it as supervisors, as Cabinet and as Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr. Snels, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u67	The crucial question is ultimately... I understand the Minister's answer that the legal structure as we have done is there and it says so in Europe, but that transparency of the financial sector is, of course, not only a problem and a focus in the Netherlands. This also applies to other countries, I can imagine. And not only when it comes to consumers. The Chamber would also like to know what is actually going on with the Italian banking sector. Is the Minister prepared, after what he has experienced with this law in the House of Representatives, to take this signal with him to his European colleagues and to turn it into a separate issue? Is he prepared to see if we can also improve transparency in the financial sector at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u68	Here is the question of how many kilos Mr Snels loads on my neck with this. That depends a little on how you interpret that. Look, I very much agree with Mr Snels on this bill, but he also refers to the Italian banks. They also have my interest, for example in the discussions on the Banking Union, but of course there are many more institutions. So I very much agree with him that this is a discussion which we believe should also be held in Europe. So if he dares me to discuss this subject in the various conversations I have, then he and I agree. If he asked me to bet on changing all that European legislation that was the basis of the Council of State's advice not to do so, he would ask something in which I would inevitably disappoint him, even if I wanted to and would spend all my time on it. So I'd like to stay away from that. I hear he means first; then I note that on the growing to-do list that I have in the direction of Brussels. I come to a question from Mr Van der Linde. He asked me to reflect on the liability. Quite rightly, I think, because that is, of course, the reverse of what the Chamber is asking me to do at the same time. That is why I constantly use the word 'balance'. Liability protection has been established to protect supervisors against high claims. That is recognizable, I think, and it is also important to organise good supervision in the country. Let me add one more thing: the liability of supervisors is also limited in the countries around us. We really looked at what that playing field looks like and whether we're doing something crazy here, yes or no. So the introduction of this limitation of liability has been sensible, as far as I am concerned. It has also been established in a well-considered manner, after consultation and also in an international perspective. I would add that this has been relatively recent. If Mr Van der Linde asks me whether I am sure that it will work perfectly in all respects, I would not be able to say yes directly. I'd rather do the opposite. I would like to argue that we have a balanced package here, in which, on the contrary, the limitation of liability seems to play a very good role. But let's also take this with us when we look at this law again, because this also applies: this is a bit terra incognita for all of us. This is new and so we also need to learn from what we are trying to organise now. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a completely different subject, which certainly affects this debate, although it is not primarily about it, but about which many in the Chamber are concerned and so am I. It's about the questions that have been asked about binary options, but actually much more about the crypto coins. Quite rightly, Mr Nijboer asked for this. I talked to the AFM about it this week. It is a recurring point on our agenda. Of course, I have said a number of times about it. The strange thing about that cryptocurrency is that we all see how it fluctuates in a huge way, which reminds me especially of the tulip bulb mania. The AFM has warned about it a number of times. DNB warned about it. I warned you about it. At the same time, the number of people from the Netherlands who invest in it is not falling dramatically; let me say it carefully. I'll give you a broader answer, because it's important to give it a little bit of thought. You can then see that a number of countries, Germany and France, among other things, say: we want to investigate whether we can ban it. The AFM has said: we are warning against it, but we do not yet see how the Minister could prohibit it. You see another movement in Japan and Sweden, for example, where they talk about regulation. I promised the Chamber that I would come up with a letter, precisely because we are exploring these options and these things and also looking at the international playing field. I think we should take those binary options into account. Of course, that's just another thing. They are regulated under MiFID, but I know that ESMA will soon come up with views on this, so I would honestly like to take that into account in that broader context. As far as I am concerned, this is perhaps the best illustration of another point made by Mr Snels, namely to what extent, as a supervisor, you may say: as a legislator, you are always chasing reality. Well, this is a perfect example of it. Because I think most of us a few years ago didn't even know about the existence of cryptocurrencies, let alone things like ICOs. Now we're talking about it every day. So the pattern Mr Snels outlined that the legislator almost always comes after the music, if I may put it that way, is partly a given, but it is a point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u69	It is good to hear how critical this minister is of these developments. That's good. In particular, he mentions the cryptocurrencies. But what's most important to me is the bitcoin futures: derived cowboy products, of which there's absolutely no insight into what they mean to the customer who gets in there. I would like to have more insight into the question of whether we can ban it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u70	I would really like to ask the Chamber for some more time, precisely because I have already promised a letter on this matter. I have repeatedly said and endorsed what the AFM has called for. I have used the words 'think honour you start' several times, because I really think that people need to realize what risks they are taking. This is of a totally different order than investing your money in something else. It just has a high roulette content. Besides, there's no lock on the door, like a deposit guarantee scheme, that you have at a bank. So I very much agree with Mr Ronnes, but I would like to ask for some time, precisely because I think that will improve the quality of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u71	Those binary options are really mess, we need to get rid of them. I would also like you to take that under the gambling tax, and we are done with it, although that is technically difficult. We'll see about that in the letter. Look, bitcoins are something else, of course. I take it we're not going to ban it as a government. Is the Minister's approach that he wants to regulate this in a way that will also be supervised, or DNB, or AFM? Is that the Minister's approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u72	I think we should do some research there, too. 'Cause what's so intriguing about that is this. I very much agree with Mr Nijboer that, even if you want to ban it if the Netherlands, this can still be very complicated. That's what the AFM says. That is why it is interesting that on the one hand Germany and France have made noises that go a long way towards at least the suggestion of bans, while on the other hand I think Sweden and Japan are thinking more about regulating. I think, quite frankly, that few, including those who are very good at matters, can predict which way is most sensible. We're busy investigating this, but let's not take an advance on that answer. Quite frankly, and to be precise, I am going to give that answer to the Chamber, but I suspect that this is a subject where we are all going to learn a lot in the years to come, because there will be developments that we simply cannot foresee yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u73	The line of the PvdA is clear: we think it should be regulated somehow. I do agree with the Minister that we are going to learn a lot in the coming years. At the same time, of course, legislation is always lagging behind such online developments. You can see that now. I would therefore like to press for speed. When are we gonna get that letter? Then we need legislation, which normally takes a long time, while those bitcoins and those other cryptocurrencies fly over the net.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u74	My intention is for the crocus recess. Where we're talking about years, I'm really talking about what's gonna happen later. But an initial answer can be expected from Mr Nijboer before he recesses. That will probably be a very fruitful recess for all kinds of reasons, but that is for another time. Then I have another question from Mr Nijboer, who dealt with the sector as a whole, specifying interest rate derivatives and investment insurance. Those are two ugly things, of course. A few comments on this, starting with the interest rate derivatives. The Court received the AFM's second progress report on 8 December last year. I will also discuss this with the Chamber on 7 February during the AO on the banking sector. As far as investment insurance is concerned, the Chamber was informed on 17 December 2017 about the state of affairs in the post-care sector, but that too is not yet complete. The AFM is now checking the last category for aftercare. The results of this work will be announced by mid-year. Mr Nijboer said, in my view, in a nutshell: but there are perhaps even smaller categories that float in the same pool of misery. I really think it's about those two, and I think we have a relatively good view of that. I will put on paper for the AO on the banking sector what exactly is the state of play at that time or shortly before that time in those two categories and what other dossiers we have to worry about to a greater or lesser extent. Mr. Chairman. I am almost done, but I still have Mrs Leijten's amendment. I don't think I let her down anymore, because she anticipated my answer. That's that I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u75	I think Mrs Leijten is going to ask you why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u76	No, because this point has changed. But I asked the Minister another question. Making supervision transparent is, of course, step one, but reducing risks by being strict on the financial sector and allowing or banning products if they are not good or making institutions more rigorous when, for example, they go structurally wrong is a second. I have not actually had an answer to my question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u77	I think I said, relatively at the beginning of my speech, that it is clear to the Chamber, but certainly also to me, that the sector had a great confidence problem and has a not very much less confidence problem. At the same time, I will also acknowledge that a number of things have changed, both in technical terms, in terms of buffers and in terms of behaviour, whether or not they have been enforced. I am thinking, for example, of the banker's oath. Trust is still insufficient, and that is also an ongoing topic for me to discuss with the Association of Banks, but also with individual banks. I think it is a little too far-reaching to go into that further in the context of this debate. My idea was that we would discuss the banking sector more in detail at the AO. That also depends a little on how detailed the answer that Mrs Leijten expects from me must be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u78	For example, the explanatory memorandum states that the infringements of the obligation to provide information and the obligation to take care are sometimes of a structural nature, which is very important for consumer protection. I have therefore asked whether a border is not being crossed at some point and that action should be taken in a different way. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees it with the supervisors. If we find that such important elements for consumer protection are sometimes systematically violated, then you expect a supervisor not to say: we make it transparent, but that he acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u79	I interpret Mrs Leijten's question in this way: you now organise supervision and possibly a punishment and then you proceed to the order of the day. I think that's her concern. She's right that the bill doesn't structurally regulate anything for this. It seems obvious to me that this is part of the conversation I have with the supervisors. This, too, seems to me to be a point which comes right back to the point when an evaluation is being carried out. However, it is more complicated to now agree on what kind of offence we are going to do in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u80	Is the Minister prepared, of course together with the supervisors, to draw up a plan for this campaign?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u81	To be honest, I would like to turn it around, because if I make a plan for the campaign, I do not think I am doing justice to the efforts of, among others, the supervisors themselves. So I'd like to turn it around. I would, however, like to say to Mrs Leijten that this remains part of the discussion I have with the supervisors. The first question to them would, of course, also be whether that is helpful and, if so, why and in what cases, yes or no? If things were to get really shocking out of that, it is obvious that I will return to the Chamber before the evaluation I have already promised, and otherwise I think it is an issue that could be an issue in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u82	In my first term, I had talked about discretionary powers. This bill regulates that regulators can warn, but they do not have to do so; they can decide for themselves. To what extent does this randomness work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u83	You also asked: they do not publish warnings, should they? Do you think that question has been answered? I note the questions and I do not think they have all been dealt with, when I feel that the Minister has finished his reply. I think those two questions were still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u84	Yes, that question is a little along the lines of my first question. I was concerned that warnings should be published, but not published. The experience with De Nederlandsche Bank is that nothing has been published so far. So the question is whether there should be some tougher criteria, which oblige regulators to publish? Or is that settled in the AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u85	That is a fair question, which I have also noted, but which I cannot immediately find. Perhaps Mr Van Dijck would like to grant me a period of grace for that first question until the second time; then I will also find out if I have taken that second question with me. And how pleasant, Mr President, that you write down the questions that are being asked to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u86	I still have one of those questions open to me. I don't know if it's answered. It's about GroenLinks' question about blackmail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u87	I'm gonna need a little more context for that. GroenLinks and blackmail...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u88	Let me give you the context. This was about the curious observation that when supervisors start sharing too much information, financial institutions no longer cooperate and no longer share information with supervisors. This was used as an argument for why there are limits to publication. I thought that was such a curious argument. That looks like blackmail from the financial institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u89	To be honest, I had interpreted that as a statement more than a question to me. I do think that the first can be maintained. At the moment when an institution knows that everything becomes transparent, I can imagine scenarios in which it discourages more active cooperation than when it is known that protection is in all cases available. We're moving up that barrier of protection with this bill. I think that is right, but in the category of'searching for the right balance': if you make everything transparent, it will also encourage certain behavior. I honestly believe that this is the right balance and that it should be as Mr Snels said in the first part of his question, but there too we will undoubtedly see if there is room for tightening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you. Are you at the end of the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u91	Yes. The fact that you write so well has advantages, but also disadvantages. I will look for the answer to Mr Van Dijck's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you. The Chamber indicates that it can proceed immediately with the second term. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. My main point was civil liability. I would like to accept the Minister's offer to put it back on the table in two or three years' time and then not only in consultation with AFM and DNB, but also with the affected organisations, such as those that will be there by then. Here's what I need to get off my chest. Immunity is also known in other countries, but then we are shopping in Anglo-Saxon law, in which the government enjoys full immunity. Finally, about the bitcoins. I am very curious about the Minister's letter on this. We have a debate on this in the pipeline and I really hope that this debate will not be scheduled. I am now looking at the President before we have received that letter. That will increase the quality of the debate. But that's more of an order point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u94	We will discuss it explicitly internally with the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u95	Okay. Thank you. For the rest, I have little to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u96	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. We're organizing surveillance. Supervision of matters of social importance. Supervision of cases where citizens, consumers, are at risk because there is an information origin or because there is a commercial interest in selling things that you may not be very useful to. We organise surveillance in all kinds of areas. Now we are dealing with a bill about making supervision transparent: what does the supervisor see behind the front door? All this ultimately to protect potential buyers and also society as a whole. After all, we have seen what happens when the financial sector slides: then we all pay the price. There are actually two observations that I think are very crazy. There are guidelines, such as Solvency for the buffers and MiFID, which are about the financial products you are allowed to trade and the supervision of them. But there is also, for example, the Market Abuse Regulation. It's about institutions that abuse their power. We have arranged for this to be done at European level, but what is the right thing to do? That there is a confidentiality obligation on that information. I actually think it's crazy, I really think it's crazy. The Minister has promised Mr Snels that he will talk about this in Europe, but I think we should all agree here that we are just focused on this. We organize supervision, but then we have to keep it a secret! I can tell you that this is not the case in the healthcare sector; I have some experience of this. In the interests of all of us, the supervisor has a very large toolbox there to intervene in. I asked for this in my first term and also in an interrupting debate. The minister said he's gonna talk to the supervisors about this. I shall table the next motion to support him, but also to say as a Chamber that it is not only a matter of finding that things are not being observed in a structural manner and that they need to be reported on, but also that supervisors should be able to intervene. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that misleading or incomplete information is still provided within the financial sector to sell defective financial products;]] [[Whereas these infringements of duty of care and information obligations are not occasional but structural on a regular basis;]] [[considers that only transparency on structural infringements does not give rise to consumer protection;]] [[calls on the government to agree with the supervisors that they should act more strictly if financial institutions are structuralally violating their obligations, with the withdrawal of licences or the prohibition of financial products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34769-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u98	I also have a question of conscience for the Minister: does he not think it is worrying that a national Member State that wants to regulate a sector or organise transparency of supervision is hampered by European rules protecting large banks rather than society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA. I saw Mr Van der Linde just getting up, but I think there will be an AO on the banking sector and everything else. Go ahead, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister's argument has strengthened our support for the present proposal. The task of supervisors is to ensure compliance with rules and laws. It would be very strange if at the moment we were to make a law that is contrary to the above-mentioned rules, because then we are doing something that is not right for financial institutions and what a supervisor there should demonstrate. So that would be weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u101	I think you provoked Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u102	It is all very well to put it this way, but is it not strange, in essence, that we are getting regulations from Europe that should protect the consumer and regulate that supervision, but that it is immediately regulated that confidentiality should apply? Shouldn't we be getting rid of that in the core?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u103	That is another question: should you not work on European legislation that does provide this space? I have heard from the Minister that he wants to discuss with the parties concerned whether this can be changed. In that sense, the answer is yes. I would like to come to the following point: in the first instance, I wanted to take this subject a little bit wider than just transparency. Transparency alone is not enough. There must also be means to maintain it. It came up for a while and you soon see that the bridge is made to cryptocurrency, but it was right for me to do the derivative products, not just of cryptocurrency. You see in the binary options the most weird constructs come along. That is why I think it would be useful to ensure that this section retains sufficient attention in the investigations that are taking place and to table a motion, together with Mr Nijboer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the AFM has warned several times about derivative financial products such as binary options and futures for bitcoins, but that it does not have a legal basis to address, for example, advertisements for these products;]] [[Whereas initiatives have also been taken elsewhere in the EU to ban products such as binary options;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how a ban on derivative financial products such as binary options and futures for bitcoins can also be introduced in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34769-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u105	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the previous subject: the bitcoins. In my initial contribution, I was concerned not only with the bitcoins themselves, but also with the technology behind them. This technology is interesting, but it also changes the way financial markets work. I made the distinction between old supervision and the way in which politics works and makes rules and the new, modern way in the fast world, where technological development goes very quickly. This raises the question of whether the role of the government remains the same, but we will continue the debate on this later. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to raise the issue of transparency in Brussels at least in a broader context. I think it's a good thing we're going to evaluate this law. We can then see if there are any more tightenings possible. I do have another motion, which deals with the analogy with the accounting sector. We all feel a certain displeasure and dissatisfaction about what can and cannot be done. I think there might be something more. This motion calls on the Minister to work with the supervisors to see what can be done. I am tabling the motion on behalf of Mr Nijboer and Mrs Leijten. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the power to disclose certain research results regarding compliance with the Wft has been removed from the legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas the appointment of poor and well-functioning financial institutions does not equate the entire financial sector;]] [[Whereas, by analogy with the accounting sector, the annual publication of a summary report containing all publicly available information contributes to the public and political debate on the functioning of the financial sector in society;]] [[calls on the Government to take further initiatives to allow financial supervisors to publish annual research reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34769-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u107	In short: look with the DNB and the AFM what is possible at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u108	I assume Mr Patternotte is back at his hearing. Mr Nijboer's turn is, therefore, again, from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. I thank the Minister for the answers and for the letter on the regulation or even prohibition of some undesirable products. We'd like to see them soon. I am also pleased that the Minister has indicated that reforms in the financial sector are not yet ready. We often come to talk about this. A higher leverage ratio due to higher buffers is really very much needed as far as the PvdA fraction is concerned. I have co-signed two motions by colleagues: one by Mr Ronnes and one by Mr Snels. I take that for granted; otherwise my name would not have been underneath it. These are excellent motions, which would make the financial sector even better. I hope the Minister will give me a positive opinion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u110	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. So we see clearly again that the Netherlands itself has less and less to say in Europe. We cannot even warn our own consumers about certain institutions or certain products. Europe will not allow that. So we're not in charge of our own surveillance anymore. This bill is a step in the right direction in the margins and space that we have and which we are offered from Brussels. Restoring confidence in the sector is a matter of transparency. Of course, the same transparency also forces institutions to abide by the rules. In that respect, it is strange that taking and shaming is not allowed, when everyone wants it and when this would be good for everyone. That brings me to the next question in the European framework. I didn't set it in the first term. The question is therefore new and I can therefore imagine that the Minister needs a little more time to do so. What is the real situation with regard to supervision and transparency, as supervision is becoming more and more European? I see a tendency: the big banks are concerned with the ECB, with European supervision. Does the national supervisor have enough information on these large banks to warn the Dutch public or are we at the mercy of the ECB? The same shall apply to ESMA, EIOPA, EBA and the ECB. These are all European supervisors, who directly monitor our sector. How does this law relate to those European supervisors? Are they also bound by this law and should they warn? Or do they have their own rules and laws again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u112	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister. Maybe it's okay if I suspend for two minutes so he can receive all the motions and prepare for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u113	Yeah, two minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u114	I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u115	The Minister is ready for his second-term response. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the motions, the questions and comments in the second term of the Chamber. I would like to mention a few points in advance. Then I will reply to Mr Van Dijck's question and then I will deal with the motions. I would simply like to endorse the first point. Of course, the Chamber is about its own order, but I also think that the debate on cryptocurrency and what goes with it, perhaps, at least for my part, would be of a higher level if I had been able to share the letter with the Chamber in advance. So I would like to endorse that. Mrs Leijten asked me another question of conscience, but that was a rather leading question. So I wouldn't dare answer that with a "yes" or "no." Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck was quite right to ask about the discretionary powers: what is the situation? In the pile I was not ready, but I wanted to be very specific about that. It has been a conscious choice to regulate it discretionaryly. That is how we do it in other areas. Here, of course, you have the dilemma, and as far as I am concerned with the very sensible choice, that we have also said in the Netherlands about this: there is independent supervision and that therefore means that you leave it to the supervisor to assess in case what he is doing with it. That is, of course, a mechanism that you see more often in terms of powers delegated by the government. I understand his concern. I would also like to assure him that we can also look at how this works in the evaluation. But I think that the principle of independence really means allowing a discretionary power there. That's the logic behind it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked specifically about derived products. This was then reflected in his motion, so I should like to make this point in his motion. Then I have one more question before I get to the motions, and that was Mr Van Dijck's. It was actually the last question. He already suspected that I would need not only back-spoke, but perhaps more time than this debate offers. I have interpreted his question as follows: can the cabinet, can I indicate what matters the Dutch supervisor, for example DNB, is dealing with what matters the European supervisor, for example the ECB, is dealing with and what matters they may be dealing with? Honestly, I think it's most useful if I take that equation. Who's going to talk about what and what are they all about together? Let me show you in a letter. Otherwise, the answer will not be precise enough. I would like to come back to that in that way. I am looking at Mr Van Dijck; he suspected that it would be a somewhat longer and more detailed answer. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions. Mrs Leijten said that the first motion was a bit of support. It is then the kind of support in the back that might make you pop over. I would advise against that motion. I would also like to add that the law already gives the regulator a lot of powers and instruments to intervene, such as fines. That is, of course, a subject that we have seen only a limited amount of passing, but I do not think that we should go down this road. Then I'll come to the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mrs Leijten has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u118	I honestly don't understand anything about that. What is a duty of care or a duty of information that we impose on a financial institution worth if you can break it structurally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u119	Mrs Leijten and I also had an exchange of views on this subject in the first term. In my view, we have found that this is undesirable in itself, but that it is also the question of how often the supervisor sees this coming at all. As a result of the discussion, or the debate, with Mrs Leijten, I once again undertook to discuss this with the supervisor. This will then or will not be followed by an evaluation. It is precisely now that we are trying to do this so carefully that I would like to try to figure out very clearly on each of the sub-topics, whether it is about transparency, whether it is about legal protection, as well and as badly as it can be. I wouldn't think it wise for us to be a little more macho in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u120	I just think this is weird. We regulate by law that the supervisor can make it transparent that someone is permanently in violation of the duty of care and information obligation. These are very important aspects of consumer protection when it comes to the financial mess that people can garden in, with all the damage they do. We heard everything coming along: the usury policies, the interest rate derivatives; we all know it. But the answer from the government is: we make it public. Then that's our oversight. That's not enough, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u121	For the sake of precision, however, we must not give the impression that it is transparency and nothing else. There are, of course, instruments, and I think Mrs Leijten knows them too, with which the supervisors can intervene. So just to pretend there's some sort of separate category for recidivists, because that's what we couldn't do next, I don't think that's right. I have not received any signals from the AFM and DNB, and that means that my predecessor has not had any signals about this either. I had the impression that I really gave Mrs Leijten a hand-out with my commitment, also because I agree with the point she is touching. Let me continue to make sure of this in the discussions in the years to come and let us take this into account in an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u122	A brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u123	Well, Mr. Chairman, in my first term, I asked how often it occurs. The idea is that this legislative proposal will make the sector more transparent and improve the sector by itself. I said that is not enough. We have had a little debate on this, in which the Minister said that they have instruments, but at the request of the supervisory authorities it is now becoming public, because that is good for the sector. I think we're just gonna let people stand in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u124	Let us not neglect all the sensible things contained in the legislative proposal, which are the efforts of many in the Chamber and my predecessor, by narrowing it down, as if it were just about transparency, and then moving on to the order of the day. I think that's too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u125	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the second motion, which concerns item No. 10, in which the government is asked "to examine how a ban on derived financial products..." etc. I would like to ask the author of the motion whether he would like to include 'or whether it is possible to' in it. That may already be in the "how," but I think the implication is that it is desirable anyway. I think our common thoughts are also in that direction, but I think it calls for another test. Next, the possibility or impossibility also asks for a test. If we still have the opportunity to double-check the desirability and then look at the possibility, I would like to leave this motion to the House's opinion. I could also imagine the petitioner holding the motion and waiting for the letter. But actually I am very flexible in that, as with more things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u127	This is a question to the author of the motion: change or modify?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u128	I intend to make the adjustment as it was proposed. We shall wait and see whether we shall put the motion to the vote or hold it until the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u129	Thank you. Now for the third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u130	I thank Mr Ronnes. I am now at the third motion, which is part No. 11. It is also a question of interpretation. Look, in the debate with Mr Snels, I was talking about how much burden I am burdening on my own shoulders. When it comes to taking initiatives towards European colleagues, as I have said, so if I may interpret the motion in this way, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. Then I absolutely see what Mr Snels wants from me. But if his encouragement goes much further and it is about a very different category of initiatives, or if he imagines that I am going to overthrow all those European rules alone or in part alone, or that this could lead to the publication of names when we have made appropriate agreements, at least under the current legislation, then I will have to discourage the motion. I hope he understands the nuance and logic on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u131	Neither. Because you have already made a commitment to look at transparency in Europe, and I do not ask you to revisit all of European law and take initiative. What I am asking in this motion is really by analogy with the accounting sector. There is now a lot of information that both DNB and the AFM publish. They do that at different times. If something's going on, there's gonna be a warning and it's gonna be published. It is about information about what is or is not published. How many times does that happen? I looked again at the AFM's annual report. There's a lot of information in there, but that's about information from the perspective of what the AFM does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u132	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u133	But if you include all the information that is published and may be published annually in the monitor, and I would advise you to consult with the AFM and DNB on this, then we will get a picture of how it is going in the sector. Then we can have a debate on this and we can have a public debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u134	So you're asking the Minister to reconsider that. I give the floor to the Minister. I want to speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u135	The tightening-up will at least help my understanding of the motion. Then I would suggest to Mr Snels that we buy some time until the AMvB is there what we talked about earlier. I suggest he hold the motion and see what that AMvB gets. Then I could also enter into the conversation with the AFM after the AMvB has appeared. If we have arrived at that moment and there is reason to say that we are still obviously missing an instrument, it is an opportunity to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. If that is not the case, I suspect that Mr Snels will feel less of a challenge to submit the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u136	Mr. Snels nods. I have to say that with words, otherwise it will not be in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u137	I think that is the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u138	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u139	That's right. I would like to thank everyone, especially the Minister.
