ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	I propose that we proceed directly with the VSO on the draft regulation amending the Implementing Scheme Fertilisers Act in relation to the establishment of detailed rules for the phosphate bank. Four speakers have spoken for this VSO. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Lodders. She is a member of the VVD Group. There are two minutes' speaking time for those who have spoken. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I need it, so I'll start right away, thank you very much. I have two motions, first of all on the opening up of the phosphate bank. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister intends to open the exemptions under the phosphate bank scheme as of 1 November 2018;]] [[Whereas RVO.nl is still in the process of settling both the cases of trouble and the final decisions for dairy farmers who have objected to their decision;]] [[calls on the government not to open the phosphate bank scheme until after all the objections have been settled by RVO so that all dairy farmers, including the troubles, can participate in an exemption from the phosphate bank,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	Then I have a motion on the ground bondage. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in order to benefit from the phosphate bank scheme, a holding must be land-bound;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the scheme in such a way that, in order to be able to use the phosphate bank scheme, all entities of the economic operator concerned should be included in the determination of the ground-boundness (and thus not only the main undertaking) so that excesses where cattle are "moved" to a separate entity in order to meet the ground-boundness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-316]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr President, concluding. In addition, Mr Geurts will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf to enable the loss of phosphate rights to take place without skimming. This does not apply to all phosphate rights, it is limited. But the motion will speak for itself in a moment. In conclusion, I would like to say to the Minister that I think we are on the same page about RVO. 'Cause people work their asses off there. There is a strong stock of objections and then there is this regulation. The phosphate bank does not offer any relief for 2018. Even if it is opened earlier, it will only offer room for 2019. Therefore a cry of heart from me: first let's finish the things we're doing and then take the next step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. The second speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Madlener of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr President. As a relative newcomer to this committee, I have stumbled upon a dossier that has seized me greatly. This concerns the dairy farmers. 2 July 2015 was the date when the future of their company was determined. If you had a very occupied stable at that time, you'd be lucky. If you hadn't, or if you had just built stables, that didn't count in the granting of those rights. Frankly, an incomprehensible choice was made at the time, and I know that the whole Chamber actually thought it was an incomprehensible choice. It has also led to distressing cases. The troubles, we call them now. I spoke to some of those people yesterday. Then you go into one of these files and you think, "How can this happen?" This is so serious! As a result, about 800 entrepreneurs are doomed to go bankrupt for the rest of their lives, to languish or whatever you want to call it. This just can't go on. I therefore wanted to address all my colleagues here in my two minutes, because this, whether you are politically left or right, is really a failure that needs to be resolved. A number of motions have been tabled to help resolve this, which my group will of course support. Otherwise, we'll have the budget after the recess. So this is simply an appeal to colleagues to move the Minister. I know the Minister is concerned about this, but there is still no solution. This really freaked me out. That's what I wanted to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. An interruption by Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	I recognize a very large part of what Mr Madlener says on behalf of the PVV Group, but what is the direction of solution that Mr Madlener brings to the discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	If you looked into my heart, I would say, of course, that whole approach of the time, that sword of Damocles that fell at that time, should not have happened. It shouldn't have looked at the number of cows you happened to have in your company at the time. It should have looked at what your company looks like: what is it based on? That was supposed to be the moment of measurement. We, as PVV, of course do not want this arrangement at all, but I do not want to talk about it. I think it is best to re-assess all those companies that are allowed to call themselves a bottleneck and simply to give them more manure rights. They're entitled to that in my eyes. I think it was a really wrong choice to have these companies, which happened to be unaware of that date, written down to death. So yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, yes. Mr Geurts, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm still thinking. The current minister is saddled with the legacy of previous rulers. We, as CDA, have done everything we can to ensure that we do so, including by inventing difficult arrangements and so on. But we simply see, also legally, that a number of directions are not possible. I had the hope that the PVV Group could also contribute to the direction of resolution. Moreover, as I said earlier, I agree, in essence, with the argument you are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	I appeal to all my fellow Members here because the approach taken here in 2015 is so wrong, poignant and unfair that it simply needs to be resolved. I don't care what it says. There are many possible solutions, all of which lie in the administrative sphere. It's in the rules. But this goes so far that we really have to do everything we can to find a solution. I can think of ten solutions, but they will be unacceptable to most Members of Parliament. But there are solutions to be found. We'll have recess next week. Then there is the budget. The troubles themselves have solutions. I would therefore like to work towards a solution in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	Following the abolition of milk quotas, there has been a huge increase in the number of cows in the Netherlands. We in the Green Left are also sad about this, but we had foreseen it, because we did not want to abolish milk quotas at all. This action is a consequence of this. A lot of farmers have also become rich because they have built large stables and taken extra animals. Is the PVV prepared to intervene in those companies? Because those farmers have also invested. That might be a solution, but then there might be new troubles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	A brief reply from Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	That is a good and understandable question. But an entrepreneur takes the space he's given. That is also the job of an entrepreneur, and that is what they have done here. This is also the logical consequence of legislation adopted by this Chamber. Yeah, well, then I don't think it's fair to say afterwards: let's take that away again. These are investments that have been made, but we are talking about entrepreneurs who are not well-off and we could really help them by putting aside the rules or being creative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you. A brief question from Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr President, I shall confine myself to a brief question and perhaps even a little bit naughty, because I would like to ask Mr Madlener whether he agrees with Mrs Bromet's assumption. Since he is quite new in this committee, Mr Madlener is certainly aware that we have almost a million fewer cows after the abolition of the milk quota. So does Mr Madlener share that the image and the assumption that is put down is far from the truth? I can see him staring at me. So a lot less cows in the Netherlands when the milk quota is abolished; the law has outlined a different picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr President, I do not fully understand the question. With the whole milk quota, you're in a political game. Of course, that has been abolished, that has been decided in Brussels and groups have opposed or opposed it. Actually, I don't think that's very relevant right now. We are talking about legislation that has also been adopted by this Chamber, which is so unfair after all, which I simply think we cannot allow it to exist. Here 800 entrepreneurs have got into unfair trouble and these problems exist to this day. That's very poignant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	I would remind Members that in December there will be an AO Manure policy. Then I would like to thank Mr Madlener for his contribution and go to the next speaker. That's Mr. Geurts from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that dairy farmers may be confronted with unexpectedly higher milk production in the last month of the year, for example by a change in feed which may lead to higher milk production, a heifer calving two or three weeks too early and/or other factors;]] [[noting that buying or leasing phosphate rights is limited because selling or leasing is accompanied by 10% skimming;]] [[noting that a dairy farmer is not allowed to produce above its phosphate reference and therefore steering the size of the livestock is the only alternative to adjust the unexpectedly higher milk production;]] [[Whereas this should lead unnecessarily to an increase in the removal of animals;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible to rent out or rent out up to 10% of the phosphate rights held from the calendar year 2018 onwards without any skimming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-317]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	I understand the reasoning. But if it were not possible, as Mr Geurts suggests, would it not be wise if dairy farmers themselves built in a margin so that at the end of the year they could also catch those unexpected events in the business without having to dispose of animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	I understand Mr de Groot's reasoning, alone, but we are dealing with the situation in which a lot of companies had to go back into the number of cows because there has been generic intervention when they have not grown. This kind of company would be hit twice by that, because they are still trying to make what they can make, and they need it financially. That's one. Two, on the basis of the Fertilisers Act, Article 38 and Article 32a, would, in my view, be possible to carry out this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. Then we go to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is necessary to prevent companies from making too generous applications with a high risk of underutilisation and that a limited group of companies seize the available space within the phosphate bank;]] [[calls on the Government to limit the amount of phosphate to which individual companies are entitled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-318]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u25	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the category of young and land-based farmers several farms are in difficulty due to the introduction of the phosphate rights system, because there is a large gap between the amount of allowances available and the stable space available;]] [[calls on the government to give priority to companies in the bottleneck in the allocation of phosphate space from the phosphate bank,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-319]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. I do not think there is any need to explain the typification of 'enterprises in difficulty', because that has now become a well-known concept, unfortunately. Let us do everything in our power to provide solutions. That is the intention of this motion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I'll suspend the meeting for a few minutes and then we'll continue with the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u28	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mrs Lodder's motion on item No. 315. It calls on me to postpone the phosphate bank scheme so that, as she says, everyone can compete for an exemption from the phosphate bank. The concern expressed in this motion is that operators whose objections to their decision have not yet been dealt with could not benefit from exemption from the phosphate bank. I can take that care away. All dairy farmers who fulfil the conditions of the phosphate bank scheme may participate in the opening of the scheme. Dairy farmers currently subject to an objection procedure may also participate in the phosphate bank if they had a positive production area on 1 December in accordance with the decision in force on that date. That goes for everyone, of course: you have to have enough land. Objection and appeal have no influence on this. The fact that people are still in an objection procedure is therefore no reason not to open the phosphate bank. We share care. There is an enormous amount of work done by all people at RVO. They've got a lot on their plate. We have, of course, asked whether this is feasible. And the reaction was that it is feasible for the people at the RVO. They will make every effort to deal with the problems quickly and carefully. I do attach importance to the importance of an early opening of the phosphate bank, because it offers other options for entrepreneurs to gain more rights in the future if they meet the conditions. So the motion is not really necessary, because the care that comes out of it does not occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u30	And that means that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u31	Yes... In that sense, it's an unnecessary motion, so I should discourage him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u32	I am pleased that the Minister shares the concern expressed in this motion. I think that the Minister and I differ on the objections. When I was in the car for an hour and a half last night, I spoke to a lot of people who are still in that objection procedure. These are also cases that I think are excluded because they simply do not meet the conditions laid down in the regulation. So I am not convinced that anyone can just take part, that there will be no change after the troubles have been dealt with. At the end of my input I raised my concerns about RVO. Please, let us deal with the appeal and objection cases first and only then pick this up. Again, this phosphate regime does not provide any relief for 2018. At the earliest, they can really get to work effectively in 2019. Why should we burden the RVO with this right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u33	On the first point, the phosphate bank has certain conditions, namely land-basedness and young farmers. Whether or not you're in an objection or appeal procedure doesn't change those conditions. Let's just do a little practice here. What if you're in an objection or appeal procedure and you win? Then you'll get rights. Then you won't be needing it from the phosphate bank for the rest of your life. If you don't win the procedure... The important thing is that you have enough production space. That's the most important thing: you have to be ground bound and you have to be young. Well, in that case, you can just join in. Anyone can just join us now. If you object or appeal is granted, RVO will say: okay, you didn't need it, so it doesn't stand up for you. In order for them to be able to walk with us now, we give that certainty, but they have to meet the conditions. And that goes for everyone. It's not about whether or not you're a bottleneck, so I'm ahead of another motion because everyone has to meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mrs. Lodders, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u35	I understand that, and I don't want to interfere with that groundboundness either. That I think that is important, I have illustrated my second motion. But I'm not convinced that there can be no change in all these appeal cases. 'Cause I know there's business going on... No, I do not want to go into individual matters, but I am not convinced that it can have no effect on a number of entrepreneurs. I'm maintaining my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u36	Clear. Then I ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u37	I don't see exactly where the care is. Anyway, we had that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u38	Thank you. The motion in part No. 316.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u39	That's the motion on ground bondage. I understand this motion, because it is really not desirable for entrepreneurs to use all kinds of tricks to be able to meet the requirements of the phosphate bank on paper. We must therefore consider the risk of such excesses occurring in practice. However, I would like to stress that the upcoming opening of the phosphate bank looks at the situation of the applicant on 1 September. An entrepreneur cannot therefore carry out such changes retroactively. You can't say "I'm going to make two bv's" or something like that, because on 1 September that wasn't the case. In any event, the regulation does not need to be adapted to this before the forthcoming opening of 1 November, if we are to achieve it, but I am prepared to look at developments in the future. I'll see how this goes for future business. If it turns out that there are unintended effects, for example, by starting new farms, specifically for the phosphate bank, or by pushing cattle, then we really need to look at solutions. I would therefore ask that this motion be retained. At the beginning of 2019, in the first quarter, we're going to see how the first opening went. I suggest that we then check whether these effects have occurred. It's hard to split up your company with retroactive effect on September 1st last. I can't do that anymore. So we are looking at what it means to adapt the regulations to that, but at the moment we do not immediately foresee an acute problem. There's one more thing. If I have to change this, the opening up of the phosphate bank will take a long time, because then the rules will have to be adapted and I cannot just open up the phosphate bank. You'll end up in other discussions again. Farmers have a real demand for rights and I cannot distribute them on the basis of the phosphate bank, because we are still adapting the regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr President, excuse the question, but that is the disadvantage of a written consultation; then we have not had the debate with each other. I am not entirely convinced in this either of the arguments why I should be holding this motion. I think we have already seen that in the past period we have been looking very hard for these kinds of constructions. They knew there was a phosphate bank coming. Entrepreneurs are generally not crazy, and they are also going to presort on this kind of thing. The fact that we are talking about it strengthens me in the idea of putting the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u41	In that case, I'll ask the Minister what her verdict is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u42	I keep asking Mrs Lodder to hold the motion. If she doesn't want to, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. I would also like to point out that there is currently about 240,000 kilograms of phosphate in the phosphate bank. With that amount, you can't do this kind of construction right away. You can't fill a complete company with that already, because that space isn't that big. Mr President, I have to explain something, because I agree with Mrs Lodder that this requires some clarification. Based on the combination of the fact that it concerns the situation of your company on 1 September, the fact that there are still too few rights in the phosphate bank to really abuse it on such a scale and the fact that after the first quarter of 2019 we are going to see what is needed to prevent this kind of thing, should we foresee it, I ask Mrs Lodders to hold the motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u43	We're going to the motion in part no. 317.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u44	That is the motion by Mr Geurts and Mrs Lodders to allow the lease without skimming as of the calendar year 2018. I have indicated to the Chamber a number of times that I must amend the law if I want to do so. An amendment of the law requires litigation over state aid. I'm not gonna make it before the end of the year. That's where I'm at. I can't do it. I just can't do it in time. If this motion is passed and I have to implement it, then I have to go against the law. It's kind of complicated when you're told to go against the law as a minister. I hear Mr Geurts say that the Minister has Article 38a at his disposal in order to obtain an exception. But in concrete terms, Article 38, for example, is the basis for the individual disproportionate burden. It concerns the development of the system in an individual case, but Article 38 is not a ground for amending or declaring it inapplicable in general parts of the law. In this case, that would be Article 32. That would mean a lot, too. This would mean that I would be given a general provision, in which I can decide for myself whether or not to declare certain parts of the law applicable. I think that your Chamber would never agree to that and that that is also a great deal of freedom that you give to a ruler. So it really requires a legislative amendment and therefore parliamentary approval. In that sense, I don't see how else to read it. What I can offer Mr Geurts, because apparently there is a difference of opinion on how to interpret Article 38, is that I can still ask the national attorney how he thinks that article should be interpreted. I can do that with an urgent question. I think I can send a letter to the Chamber at the end of next week with the judgment of the state attorney on this point. I say that this has nothing to do with unwillingness. Mr Geurts should not think that I would not want this at all. I'll tell him how I'm legally stuck here. I'll ask for another opinion on that. Then the Chamber will have it for the budget. Then you can take it into account, but it becomes very complicated for me when I am asked to do something that goes against the law. Then I'm stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u45	I'm just trying to determine whether you're asking if the motion is being held or if you're not telling her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u46	In that sense, I ask that she be detained because, if the Chamber so wishes, I can give the opinion of the national attorney to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr President, I see that you are watching the clock. I'll be very brief. I'll hold this motion. I'm taking up the Minister's offer to get the state's attorney to look into this. I hope that the Minister will ask the national attorney to look very specifically at how a 10% waiver can be granted, as we call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u48	At the request of Mr Geurts, I propose his motion (33037, No. 317). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u49	I have one comment to make on this question. I have said that I will ask the national attorney to interpret Rule 38. The state's attorney is not a politician. I can't ask the county attorney what possibilities he sees. I can ask the national attorney how he interprets that article: does that give me that space, yes or no? I can't charge the state's attorney with the assignment to look for opportunities. That's way out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u50	We're going to the motion in part no. 318 by Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u51	He asked that the amount of phosphate to which individual companies could claim should be minimised. Mr Bishop knows that, in order to be eligible for the phosphate bank, you must be a ground-bound and young farmer. Ground bound means that we are already looking at the production space you have to be able to meet it. In this sense, unlimited rights cannot be issued. That actually has a cap on it. Let us call it that and I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u52	The intention of this motion is to prevent, if the balance sheet is drawn up, the release of phosphate rights that have not been used, while there are companies that would need wider allocation, which have not been granted and which have therefore been put at a disadvantage. That is the intention of this motion. Nor does the motion prescribe how this should be done, but calls for a good and critical look at how to organise it in such a way that as many companies as possible can be helped in proportion. And how can you prevent the balance from being drawn up, unused phosphate space? You shouldn't want that. It's a careful process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u53	Of course, I also attach great importance to a careful process, but I have the law as a framework. That's what it's about. In fact, Mr Bishop asks that we simply check on a case-by-case basis whether the requested production space can also be used. Because even with phosphate rights for one animal, it can already be said that they will not be used. There's no way to test it. I can't test a farmer's intentions when he claims the phosphate bank. I can check on how much production space, how much land he still has that I can issue rights to. Furthermore, I can determine if he is still a young farmer. These are the frameworks on which the government must steer. But in response to the question of what his intentions are, every farmer will say: of course I will use those rights, otherwise I will not ask them. It's actually impossible what you're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u54	But the implication of what the Minister is now saying is that, if the application meets the criteria laid down by the law, in principle unlimited can be granted in proportion. That can't be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u55	No, I'm not saying that. I'm gonna try to explain it to you again. What I'm saying is, we'll see how much land such a farmer has. For the requirement is: for what you ask, you must also have land. So it's not unlimited. Unless it's a big landowner with a lot of land in possession and no phosphate rights at all. But it's not that everyone can register unlimited, there's always a check to see if you have enough production space for that, ergo enough land. In the motion in part No. 319 the government is invited to give priority to companies in difficulty when granting phosphate space from the phosphate bank. Partly in the light of the discussion that has just been held by Mr Madlener, I can say one thing, namely that there has not been a debate in which Chamberwide has felt so much pain about what is going on here. I feel that pain myself. That's not a political thing. At the same time, it is incredibly difficult for me to say that in recent months I have always tried to define what is or is not a problem. Mr Bishop says that it is clear what a problem is. If it had been so obvious to describe what a problem is, life would have been much clearer. It's incredibly complicated to find it as generic as we do here. Mr Bishop now says: give priority to these companies. But then a lot of companies will come forward and say, "I'm in trouble." Then there's got to be a definition of exactly what's a problem. Then I will come back to all the discussions that have taken place over the past few months and years in order to make that clear. We have had a bumpy committee, the Kalden Commission, which has defined that. Solutions have been found for these groups, but it is incredibly difficult out there. I understand the intention of Mr Bishop's motion, but I really cannot carry it out and I must therefore advise her against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u56	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-4.u57	Voting on motions for resolutions tabled today at the beginning of the afternoon sitting. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.15 p.m. and then proceed with the continuation of the budget of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
