ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u1	The next item is the debate on the strengthening operation and the settlement of claims in Groningen. I would like to welcome everyone, the MPs and the people in the public gallery. I understand that a lot of people are following this debate. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Speaking time is exactly five minutes. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tonight we talk about the deal that should never have been concluded between Exxon, Shell and the cabinet. This afternoon we'll talk about the reinforcements. It's July 5th now. On July 1st, it would all be clear. We have been promised this by this minister and by the coalition parties. Nothing could be further from the truth. In Groningen, in Overschild, in Ten Post, in Ten Boer, no one knows where he is. Yeah, new numbers are out there. There have been statements about batches. But if you're in an individual house, in or out of the area, you don't know what's gonna happen now. That is exactly what the entire opposition has warned against. A month ago, the Minister should have just kept to the agreements made with the inhabitants of those villages. It is even more striking: the analysis of State supervision of the Mines shows that the safety risk, the risk of earthquakes, will increase even further in the coming year, as gas extraction remains at the same level. To be honest, that scared the hell out of me. The report by the State Monitoring of Mines states that, although risks are declining significantly in the coming years, they will be even worse in the coming year. This seriousness underlines once again that the Minister's determination not to comply with the agreements with the region and its inhabitants has been an incorrect choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u3	Mr Nijboer refers to the report of the Mines Council. We talked about this a long time ago, and we will talk about it for a long time today. The chairman of the Mines Council literally said: if that pause button had not been pressed, if a pass had not been made in the place, it would have been at the expense of safety. I wonder how Mr Nijboer weighs those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u4	I think that if the government makes agreements with people, with residents in Overschild, she should keep them and not cancel them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u5	I'd like an answer. The chairman of the Mines Council said that if the pause button had not been pressed, if no pass had been made on the site in connection with the reinforcement, it would have been at the expense of security. This quote is also in my lyrics. I would like to know from Mr Nijboer how he assesses that statement by the chairman of the Mines Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u6	I'm judging it as incorrect. Surely it's unthinkable that if you don't do anything for three months, everything just freezes, doesn't strengthen houses, this increases security? What is this distortion of reality? I understand what Mr Verdaas has said, because a lot of houses outside the 1.588 and 1.581 have also proved unsafe. They should be a priority, but they haven't been a priority lately. Nothing happened there either. It's not like if you keep things quiet, it'll be safer. There's no one who believes that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u7	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u8	As far as the PvdA is concerned, it should have been continued. You also see now that the Minister should do that eventually, because the Mining Council says: we have promised things, you can't do this, you have to let people choose. The argument that we are breaking down the entire province is also incorrect. People aren't gonna do that on their own. It is therefore a good thing that these people are left with the choice, but that could have been done three months earlier. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the Council of Ministers last Tuesday. The PvdA would like to know what has been agreed there, what has been discussed and what it costs. And how is it that it seems like the Empire has to take the fall for the fortification? Last Monday, Shell and Exxon were standing next to the minister and said they'd vouch for the damage and the reinforcements. We're less than a week away, and it looks like the taxpayer can pull the wallet. That's unbelievable. Isn't it incredible if it is? I would also like the Minister here in the Chamber to make it clear that it is not the region and housing corporations that should take the fall. That was said in the media. That has been taken back, but I would also like you to do so in the Chamber, so that at least there is clarity about it, because that would be the opposite world. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the old damage. We got a letter today. 74% accepted the offer. Those look like good scores. They may be for simple cases, too. People have then agreed, sometimes against remembrance and joy I say, to get rid of the whining. 26%, that's over 1,500 people, so they didn't agree. Those are often, we know from practice, the people in whom it is very difficult, in whom it takes years, where there are enormous damage, where the house is actually not whole anymore and the NAM still denies it. Those are very serious cases. Behind the statistics that seem very nice, there is still a lot of misery in practice. I ask the Minister to be aware of this and to do something about it. Even a signature below 74% means that more than 1,500 people are still in uncertainty and still dependant on the NAM. Mr. Chairman. I come to the third point. That is the future perspective for the region. This now threatens to disappear completely behind the horizon with all these discussions, additional ministerial councils, ministers who have to adjust and who are tired of it, 'because Groningen has had enough'. Much more is needed in Groningen than just strengthening agreements and damages. The region has taken a huge blow, lost confidence in the government and lost confidence in its future. It really takes more than in a cabinet to argue over a few pennies which then turn out to be too little and where the bill ultimately ends up with the taxpayer to a large extent. That is what I want to say at the end of my speech, which is not open to the multinationals, to Shell and Exxon. In that respect, what happened last week was exemplary. Residents come here and are not received. For Shell and Exxon, the door is open. I call on the Minister to listen much more to the people, to listen much more to the inhabitants, to listen much more to the mayors and to act on them and not to be as selfish as recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u9	Let me ask Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party about this compensation. Indeed, 74% accepted it. That is of course very nice, but I also hear a lot of stories from the region that people are murmuring. So I would like to have more access to it through independent research to see how these damages are handled, so that the new Temporary Committee on Mining Damage can learn from how these damages have been handled. Would Mr Nijboer support the request to the Minister for an independent investigation? I can only hear the Nijboer filling in on everything that is not going well, but would he agree to this constructive proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u10	There's also a lot not going well in Groningen. I'm not saying this for nothing. I think that people have already had a lot of inspectors and researchers at home and that they are not very much waiting for them. At the same time, I understand that Mrs Mulder says that we need to keep the pressure on that and that she wants that to be clearly understood. So I am not against that, but I do think that people will be much more helped if a little human is looked at how the situation is. You know as well as I do how many people have been suffering for years. They run endless processes and are stuck again and again. The examples are numerous. If that is resolved, these studies will also produce better results. But I wouldn't oppose such a proposal if you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u11	Thank you. Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u12	The reason why this is so important to us is because Mr Posthumus, in his research on reinforcement, and in particular the spiritual reinforcement, has said that you need to follow more closely how it is resolved properly. That's what we all want to fight for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u13	The latter is true, but I have been able to do that long-term follow-up over the last few years and I can draw a conclusion from that. It's going really bad. Mrs Mulder has been able to do this like no other, just like Mrs Beckerman and all of us. The conclusion is clear: it doesn't go for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u15	"We had a dream: just lovely little house, little tree, little bug. But now all we have is a little house, a little tree, a little crack. I'm literally sick of the stress and sadness. I hope you make a strong point, that they see how it really is, that the Netherlands suddenly stands together for all its citizens and that the real story, the real sadness, can now be seen for everyone." That's what one of the victims of old damage writes to me. On 31 January 2018, the Minister decided that the NAM should handle all 6,000 old claims before 1 July 2018. In the words of the Minister: "either by resolving them, or by making a reasonable final offer." It soon followed the stories that showed the opposite. People were given a very unreasonable offer and once again felt offended. However, in the progress reports, the Minister continued to report that the handling of old damages was successful. The Minister spoke of "unmistakably positive." You noted that the NAM followed up on the agreements made. You didn't need to know about the independent investigation we asked for. That's why we asked the hurtdoers about their story. The reactions show a debugging image. Where your image is positive, reasonable and good, reality turns out to be negative, unreasonable and bad. From these stories speaks an unprecedented desperation and inhumane treatment of victims of gas extraction and your policies. They are murw, tired, angry, sick and/or depressed. Mr. Chairman. I have a black book with more than 80 stories of dupeds. I'd like to have that distributed to the Minister and the MPs. There's Cor and Elly Hoogeveen from Forest Flower. A counter-expert found that they have $80,000 worth of damage. The NAM offers them €10,000. They say: we have now lost confidence in the successful outcome. Or Gerard and Loes Wolthoorn, who have been fighting for five years to get their damages. The NAM offered them €6,500. A damage repair company approved by the Centrum Secure Living estimated the damage at €15,958. They say to me: this is the biggest post-war disaster. Or Bea Blokhuis, teacher at a gymnasium, who has more than €30,000 damage to her home and now gets an offer of, don't be afraid, €3.353,58. She says to me: "The students, I find that the worst. What keeps me special is a student who eventually migrated from the gymnasium to another school type, partly because of the hassle, which prevented him from getting to his schoolwork in his swap house, with flying plague." The struggle of the victims against the NAM is an unequal battle. Many people, for example, had to pay for their own counterexpertise. John Christiaanse writes strikingly about this to me. He writes: "I am a smart boy, but I have no sense of all the legal rules. I felt I had to fight a herd of lions, only with a straw in my hand, without a chance." Some of the injured accept that offer, but others continue to fight. The red line is that they all lose or have lost hope of a successful outcome. For example, Helma Tigelaar. She says, "I have considerable psychological and physical complaints. I really hope that there will be justice as soon as possible and that the NAM will pay for all the damage, so that we those who are hurt can all sleep and enjoy life again." Her damage was determined by the counter expert at €125,000. What does the NAM offer? €4.975.07, less than 5% of her damage. A particularly serious category in the black book is formed by farmers and entrepreneurs, such as Wiard Kraak and Margreet Kadijk, who have been living in a stand behind their monumental farm with their young children for two years and who have been successfully recovering damage to their homes and farms since 2012. The injustice that has been done to these people is enormous. So much has been taken away from them, not only their safe home, but often also their health and happiness. The government has failed brilliantly here, and it is the supreme time for justice. Does the Minister agree with me that these people should receive a reasonable and fair offer before the summer? Afterwards you have to pay that part of the cost that the NAM has to pay according to the old scheme but on them stories. My appeal to you is to arrange for a general's pardon... in which you acknowledge generous guilt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u16	Thank you. 13 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u17	We are now faced with a new decision on the reinforcement. Today I spoke to Wouter van der Tuin, who lives in Schildwolde with his wife and his children of 4 years and 2 years old. Three weeks ago, they received a radical reinforcement advice. In the event of a quake, the walls can clap, it says in that advice. They belong to that batch of 1,588 and yesterday they were told by the NCG that it is only a question of whether they are also covered by the Minister's promise that their house will be strengthened. Wouter tells me: my wife and I long for clarity, certainty and, above all, safety. Mr. Chairman. No one in Groningen currently knows what he or she is up to on the basis of new reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u19	That is why we ask the Minister if he will be able to give people clarity this week as instructed in the Agnes Mulder motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u20	Thank you. Everyone has five minutes, you also have Mrs Beckerman, and I will tell the others who still need to speak. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u21	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Beckerman on all the work that is behind the black book. I think she's also showing the stories behind the damage. But five minutes, I understand that Mrs Beckerman spent most of her time on that. We had an extensive technical briefing yesterday. We heard very clearly from State surveillance, the Mining Council and other experts that thanks to the advice of the Mining Council we can now ensure that the 1,500 most unsafe houses can be dealt with first. Does Mrs Beckerman support that advice from the Mining Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u22	I was just telling the story of Wouter van der Tuin. He lives with his wife and his children aged 4 years and two years in Schildwolde. For years they've been investigating his house, and three weeks ago he heard: this house is unsafe. It could collapse, walls could collapse if there was another earthquake like this. We know that this opportunity will increase in the coming year as well. This man and a lot of other Groningers don't know what they're up to right now. Are they in the safe group or are they in the unsafe group? Of course, every unsafe house must be strengthened, but the Groningers must also be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u23	Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u24	In the motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. It says literally: in the first week of July everyone in the two batches must have clarity. I hope you still support that. I think that, of course, everyone in an unsafe home deserves that, but also all those people who are now in insecure, but the model is not yet a reality. That's why we need to get inside those houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u25	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u26	Mrs Beckerman and I were both under that motion to clarify as soon as possible in early July. I still support that. Mrs Beckerman is right to point out the unclear nature of Groningen's families. But taking over the advice of the Mining Council and the direction the cabinet has taken with the region over the past few months will mean that we are going to be the first to tackle the 1,500 unsafe homes, but also that we are also giving the 1,588 out of that batch the opportunity to implement the reinforcement advice. I myself am very pleased that the cabinet has made that choice. By prioritizing on those 1,500 unsafe homes and then tackling the 1,588 homes from the batch, that means we'll be in timing over the next few months...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u27	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u28	My question is: does Mrs Beckerman support this prioritisation? Address all unsafe houses immediately and then immediately start with the 1.588, as long as they are safe but have received a reinforcement advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u29	A very long question, but I think you're making a very small mistake. The Mining Council didn't say anything at all: only then to get to work with those homes. He said: these trajectories have to start all three at the same time. Tackle unsafe homes and now enter the homes that appear to be safe and see if that model is really right. And at the same time offer perspective to the region. The first week of July is almost over, so I hope you still support it. The Mining Council never said this. I'm talking about people I've just been talking about, people who are really afraid their house will collapse because of a quake that can still come. I could never agree to a proposal in which we say to them: we are going to have a nice eight-week recess, goodbye, we have a stack of reports here, perhaps you can find out for yourself. Never.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u30	I didn't say that either, and I don't think the Mining Council said that either. I'm not standing here to increase the differences between you. In my view, we are very much in agreement here: to tackle all unsafe houses as quickly as possible and to continue with the reinforcement approach for all those houses that already had reinforcement advice. Mrs Beckerman has rightly devoted her speaking time to the black book, but I would like to point out here that we are very much in agreement on this strengthening approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u31	Of course, that is still a big problem. Right now, we don't know if it's safe or unsafe at any address. Last time, the coalition called out: we're not going to recess until we know, we're not going to recess until that motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. has been carried out. And right now, that first week of July is almost over and no one knows it yet. Nobody.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u32	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u33	Mr. Chairman. A lot has happened on the gas file in the last nine months. We stop the gas extraction in Groningen, making it much safer very quickly. All unsafe homes are reinforced. The approach of homes from the batch-1.588 continues. New damages will be dealt with without the NAM. The impact of all these cabinet decisions is not always clear. And the sometimes clumsy communication led to unrest and confusion. But fortunately, cabinet and region have been back together since Monday and are working together on a new perspective for Groningen. On Monday, the Mining Council came up with its conclusions and recommendations. By rapidly reducing gas extraction, it becomes much safer in Groningen. 1,500 homes remain unsafe for a long time and should be addressed as soon as possible. In addition, residents of the 5,700 homes that do not yet meet the safety standards should be given the option of implementing measures to their homes. For homes that are safe, but for which there was already a reinforcement advice, this advice should be able to be carried out. These are clear recommendations from the Mining Council. The Minister takes these opinions and, together with the region, continues the reinforcement operation. According to D66, that's the only right choice for Groningen. Thanks to the advice of the Mining Council, we can now get to work with the most unsafe houses as quickly as possible. By giving residents from the so-called batch-1.588 the choice, the cabinet respects the agreements made with thousands of Groningen families in Delfzijl, Appingedam, Overschild and Ten Boer. I am glad that the Minister in that way has the motion for a resolution, Mr Jetten c.s. The Commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States At the same time, of course, there are questions. When can the Minister provide clarity at address level? In the batch-1.588 there are also a number of homes that have already received a reinforcement advice. Do these properties, like the batch-1.588, get the choice to continue, even if their house is safe? When can the residents of the other homes in Groningen expect a kitchen table meeting and what will be the focus of these talks? Can Groningers who are worried about their homes still get an inspection of their homes? Are other buildings, such as schools, hospitals and nursing homes, now being dealt with alongside housing? Mr. Chairman. The opinion of the Mines Council also raised questions about the way in which we had organised the reinforcement operation in recent years. More and more signals are coming from outdated figures and scientists and experts who did not feel free to do their job. This created an image at the technical briefing yesterday that the most unsafe houses were not the first to be dealt with and some Groningers were unnecessarily in uncertainty. How does the Minister assess these signals? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, safe houses do not mean that there will never be cracks again. Therefore, it is important that damage is dealt with properly. This applies first of all to the 6,000 old damage cases. The NAM has made all these people an offer now. To what extent does the Minister consider that the NAM was really generous in this respect? How does the Minister respond to the signals that Mrs Beckerman has just expressed and which are also reflected in her black book? I referred to it last week: a number of Groningers who have now received compensation are now getting the signal from the Tax Administration that their child or rent allowance will be cut. Mr Nijboer and Mrs Beckerman have already asked written questions. I would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at these signals and whether he can find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u34	I have a question for Mr Jetten. This morning at ten to eleven we received the information that all 6,000 old cases would have had a final offer from the NAM. At ten to one we all received an email from Theo Elsing from Haven, who reports: I haven't had any last offer at all. What is Mr Jetten's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u35	I hadn't seen that last e-mail in today's hustle and bustle. I did read that all 6,000 cases had an offer. If that is not the case, I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify this in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u36	I really don't. The people I was talking about in my story, those people who live on their property with their two little children, have also had no offer. But I didn't come here to ask for it. You just said that it is really incredibly sad that people who get compensation should pay taxes on it. Less than half an hour ago, you voted against a motion, Leijten/Beckerman, in order not to consider damages for earthquake damage or injury as property. This is very common, as in the case of the fire disaster in Volendam and the victims of sexual abuse in the Catholic Church. None of that is taxed. Gas extraction damage is. You're voting against. And you're going to ask the Minister nicely again? How can it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u37	I also indicated in the debate last week that I find cutting child and rent allowances really incomprehensible. The motion we just voted on was submitted to the Spring Note yesterday. As far as I understand it, the Minister for Finance has indicated that this motion cannot be carried out in this way. I'd like to hear from the Cabinet in what other ways we're going to prevent people from being cut back on their fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u38	So you join in if I make a new motion today if for this scandalous fact... I have examples of people who are really sick, who are still paying off and who have a payment arrangement with the Tax Office. You will sign with us today if we come up with a motion to stop this right now and give compensation to the people who have affected it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u39	I don't really care how we're gonna handle it. I would like to hear from the cabinet how we can prevent this, because I fully agree with you that it is not possible for us to cut people's allowances if they have finally received their long-awaited compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u41	Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about those 6,000 old damage cases. We have just heard from Mrs Beckerman what has gone wrong. Fortunately, new damage cases are covered by the new damage protocol, in which the NAM has no role whatsoever. But what about the new damage protocol? What about the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage? Can this committee carry out its work independently and properly? In addition, D66 wants farmers to stop knocking on the door of the NAM to get their rights. Are damage to agricultural holdings also covered by the new damage protocol? It has just been discussed in the debate between Mrs Agnes Mulder and Mr Nijboer. It is not just a question of whether we have made an offer and how many percent have accepted all the claims. It is also a question of whether this has happened in a decent way. Are these people properly helped and do they also feel that these damages have been generously compensated? That is why I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to monitor in the coming years to what extent the handling of damages under the new protocol is actually going in a way that people in Groningen feel helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u42	Ruthful and generous, we haven't seen that at all from the NAM. I also get reports that people with damage, and then it is about structural damage, including the construction, have been told: that is not damage, that is about strengthening; then you have to have another window. Now yesterday, or this week, we have heard new reports about the reinforcement operation, where the number of houses is falling dramatically. What's going to happen to that structural damage? Who's gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u43	I think this is exactly why we are bringing that responsibility to the State. As a Groninger, you no longer have to go continuously to all these different NAM counters for damage or for reinforcement. As a government, we stand next to people to help them. I am very curious to see how many of these kinds of examples, as Mr Van der Lee is now referring to, will not be covered by the measures now advised by the Mines Council. We do have to look very closely at that. It cannot be that people who have been trained in the past few years to deal with their damage will be left completely empty-handed. All damage must simply be compensated or resolved, and unsafe houses must be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u45	Mr. Chairman. I actually came to the end of my speech. We've had turbulent months. We can now conclude, shortly before the summer recess, that this cabinet has decided to stop the gas extraction in Groningen altogether. State surveillance, the Mining Council, other experts have shown that this makes it very quickly much safer in Groningen. But we should have put that change in place a lot sooner, because we've ruined a lot in Groningen over the past few years. There's been a lot of unnecessary damage. A lot of people have been unnecessary in insecurity. But afterwards it is nice to live, said the chairman of the Mining Council, so we now have to work together with the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u46	The numbers have taken over us recently, but mostly over the Groningers. It turns out that there are also a lot of unsafe houses outside the houses that it actually started with. Do you also think that all those who are concerned about the safety of their homes should be able to have a publicly funded inspector in the house to see if the house is actually safe to provide that security to people? That's what the PvdA would be for. I wonder what D66's like on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u47	I think I said that at the beginning of my speech: all unsafe houses must be dealt with as quickly as possible, but if Groninger is concerned about their home when they are not in the unsafe batch as it is now indicated, then those people should be able to have a conversation about it and be assured that their home is really safe. If further inspection reveals that the house is still unsafe, it should also be dealt with immediately. Mr Nijboer and I fully agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u48	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u49	Mr President, thank you. Last Monday, the Mining Council came up with its advice on the reinforcements in the gas extraction affected Groningen. The Mining Council appreciates the government's decision to return gas extraction to zero as soon as possible. The independent authorities, State supervision of the Mines, the KNMI, TNO, NEN and independent scientists have each independently advised the Mining Council. They each conclude separately that it is really going to be safe in Groningen by reducing gas extraction as quickly as possible. That's why we're all doing this. The Mining Council concludes that this decision means that fewer houses need to be strengthened and that the reinforcement can also be done less radically than previously adopted. In this respect, the Mines Council assesses the Minister for the pass he has made following this far-reaching decision. At the same time, the Mining Council indicates that expectations have been raised, especially among the population in the so-called 1,588 batch. They advise the cabinet to give those residents the choice to strengthen their home even if it is not strictly necessary for security. The question to the Minister is whether clear agreements have been made with the region as to when these people will be informed. And do people in the 1,581-batch who have already received a reinforcement advice and in whom expectations have been raised receive a further explanation in the short term? Because we do want our motion to be upheld. Mr. Chairman. It is good news, but in certain media the question of how to finance all this remains. Can the Minister explain that again today? There is also uncertainty among residents and some media about the number of buildings or the addresses. From the SodM yesterday we received an A4' with the corresponding figures, but I note that those figures have not yet reached everyone. I would ask the Minister to go into that again today. Mr. Chairman. It is really good news that, as it now looks like, fewer homes need to be strengthened and also less radically. With a number of measures to make homes quickly safer, we heard scientist Rock say in the hearing yesterday. He said: take no-regret measures, such as anchors in the walls, and apply reinforcements by setting connections between support beams and support walls. Of course I like to leave these advices to the professionals, but it appeals to me that it can all be done a bit faster. When will the Minister come to the House of Representatives with his approach? Mr. Chairman. In addition, it is necessary to proceed as soon as possible with the implementation of the reinforcement of those who already have advice, even if these homes might not need to be strengthened because of security. How is the prioritisation of the reinforcement of this batch completed? And suppose you're a resident of the first batch, of that 1,467, do you get an alternative choice if your home doesn't necessarily need to be strengthened from a safety point of view? Mr. Chairman. 15% of the houses of the 1,581-batch must be strengthened, we read. We want to know soon, today, this week, for all the residents of that batch exactly how it is. Mrs Beckerman is right to say that we all signed that motion. Don't let it go. Mr. Chairman. Our people in Groningen tell me they're worried about the inspections. The Mining Council states that this can in principle be stopped. The concern I hear back is: but do we not end up in a paper reality? Shouldn't the inspections just continue? The way in which inspections should be carried out is not yet uniform. That's what we heard in the hearing yesterday. Is the Minister prepared to agree with the region on future inspections? For there are people in the area who would like to receive an inspection, because they do not feel safe in their homes, are not in any of these batches and would still like to receive the latest insights of science for such an inspection. Where are these people gonna come in later? Is that with the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage? I see a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u50	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u51	I have a brief question about your motion. It says that people must have clarity in the first week of July. I wonder: do you still support that? Because at the moment, of course, no one has any clarity at all. Do you still think, as your motion states, that everyone in those two batches should hear this week whether their house is now considered safe or unsafe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u52	I think these people need to know what approach is going to be taken in front of their homes. This group of 1,588 has already been clarified this week through all the media. They will be given the right to strengthen their homes, even though it may not be strictly necessary. So that clarity is there for that whole batch. But I would appreciate it if the Minister could say that again here today, and if they would also receive a letter on how the procedure is going to proceed. I see the Minister nodding. It seems to me right that our motion should also be carried out. The same applies, of course, to the 1.581. There are a number of people who have already received reinforcement advice. Those are people who, among other things, participated in a pilot. They already have reinforcements at home. Then it seems to me that those people would go the same route as the people in that 1,588-batch. But that clarity must be given. Those are all questions I have here today for the Minister. As far as I am concerned, that clarity is coming today. I hope that is what Mrs Beckerman wants today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u53	I'm sorry, what does Mrs. Mulder say exactly? Are you saying that these people need to know this week whether their house has been declared safe or is still unsafe? Or do you say: no, that can wait; they just need to know that we have a new report and that we're going to do something for that 1,588?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u54	I think it's for a lot of people in those batches... I hate to talk about "batches" like that; I still have a lot of trouble with that. But if you have a home that falls under that 1,588, you need to know this week if you need any backup for security. Otherwise, at least this week you have to hear from the Minister that you can carry on with this reinforcement, even if it may not be necessary for security. You're gonna make the choice about exactly what you want to do. Suppose it's not necessary for security, but you do get the opportunity to strengthen your home. Well, then you'd have to think about that for a while, wouldn't you? Then we do not need to hear from the people themselves this week what they are doing with it, but they need to be given that clarity in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u55	I wanted to support Mr Beckerman on one point. That's the point of communication. We do a lot of things, in a lot of haste, the minister first. But it's complicated. That's what we share. Communication has often emphasised that we have provided clarity. But then perhaps we mean clarity about the policy we want to conduct, but not for people at the kitchen table itself. I think it is good for everyone in this debate, including the Minister, that we continue to name that distinction. Because even in that motion the suggestion is raised that you can inform everyone in one day, and we knew in advance that this could not be done. Does Mrs Mulder therefore agree with me that we need to be more careful in communication, precisely in order to manage expectations properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u56	Yes, but I still think those people at address level should just receive a letter this week. That is the clarity you are asking of me, and that is the clarity I am giving you. That's what I think. I hope the Minister here today is going to say that he is going to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u58	Mr. Chairman. The settlement of damages. It remains unclear how business premises, barns and other buildings which do not have a residential function are handled, but which are unsafe. From talks in the region and the hearing on mental reinforcement, compelling stories about this came to us. They are also included in the bundle we have just received from Mr Beckerman, I think. Many farmers suffer damage from mining. That has far-reaching consequences. Harvesting fails because the drainage is broken and there are leaks of manure cellars, so fewer cows can be kept and your funding suddenly doesn't add up. Is the Minister prepared to see if there can be a separate programme for these building and sales damages, so that our often agricultural entrepreneurs in Groningen can also be helped quickly and adequately? Then the damages, the old damages. I also hear that too many cosmetic offers have been made and that it has not yet been good enough. Even though the percentages may be hopeful, I would like to know what is really behind the percentages. That is why I would like the Minister to investigate this, so that he can take it up with the region, as Mr Posthumus has pointed out. We'd like to know. Finally, Mr President. The new damage protocol has just begun. Can the Minister state how this is going and whether it is possible to deal with damage cases in a reasonable time? Mr. Chairman. I have a lot more, but I had to delete.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u60	Maybe I can help. I think it is quite right that Mrs Mulder should draw attention to the farmers. There are a lot of problems. I would like to ask her to give this attention to schools and schools as well as to nursing homes, nursing homes, old people's homes and businesses. None of these are homes, and safety can of course also play an important role. Does she agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u61	Completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u63	Isn't there a slightly longer question on another subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u64	No, thank you. Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister put the reinforcement operation on hold to await the advice of the SodM and the Mining Council. These advices are now available, but there is still no clarity for many people, except for the fact that less houses should be strengthened by reduced gas extraction. Batches and numbers are not synchronised in the various reports, so every Groninger can now ask: "In which group do I belong? At first my house was unsafe and now suddenly it isn't." The people who already have a commitment to strengthening are entering into a dialogue. How are these dialogues gonna take shape and who's gonna have these conversations with the people? It reminds me a lot of the Wmo kitchen table conversation, the outcome of which is not always to the satisfaction of the clients. So my question is whether these people will also be supported in this dialogue. Will people feel free and equal? And what, according to the Minister, will be the results of these dialogues? The Mining Council believes that you should be generous with the people, but that also means a generous budget. We actually have no idea what that budget will be. The fact that the State is taking on a greater share of the cost of the reinforcement operation is only true, because we have all benefited from the gas benefits for many years. But then the real costs will have to be reimbursed, 100%, and then the offer of the NAM should not be far below the real cost, as we have heard on a regular basis, also in Mrs Beckerman's stories. That's not the point. The experts we spoke to yesterday during a briefing stressed the importance of communicating openly and honestly about the actual risks. That hasn't always happened lately. There was even a force field, as we were told, not to publish the latest newly calculated standard. Scientists also sometimes felt constrained to communicate fairly with directors and in the public debate. You don't have to. We know it's a massive operation. We also know it's going to cost a lot of money, but we have to do it; we have to do it. We owe that to Groningen. The separate house inspection takes a lot of time. Therefore, housing types are inspected according to standards. Yet the NEN says that the houses should also be viewed separately. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, we first take the generic measures for the most at risk buildings as soon as possible, but then, when the greatest danger has left, we also need to inspect them separately. And what about the farms? Mrs Mulder mentioned it just now: 80% of Groningen is agricultural and 80% of the so-called complex damage cases relate to farmers. There is always a risk of people dying, but to what extent are stables and barns, leaking dungeons and the safety of the animals taken? I'd like a response. I agree with Mr Nijboer that the schools and the other buildings are also very important. The Dutch Practice Directive is a standard for measuring the safety of a building. This NPR can be adapted on the basis of new insights. That can be done quite quickly, but the NEN strives for stable versions. The NPR 2018 is based on the assumption that reduced gas extraction will reduce earthquakes, while the earthquake risk is projected to increase further until 2019. In fact, all the prospects are based on these assumptions, but Mother Nature tends to do her own thing and generally doesn't allow herself to lie down to assumptions. There is a model that is also criticised, but this is the only validated model that exists, so we have nothing else. In the end, no one really knows what the future will bring. If we have a very cold winter this year, then suddenly everything will be different. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, we say: move forward with clarity, and whatever happens, whatever you do, start taking control of those 1,500 vulnerable buildings tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u66	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologise for being a little late, but at the same time as this debate, I had a debate with the Secretary of State for IenW. I normally try to avoid that, but on this last day of the parliamentary year sometimes very hectic things happen and the agenda is a little fuller than usual, but I apologize for that. Mr. Chairman. The fear of a really heavy earthquake, the uncertainty about your home, the lengthy procedures, that damages people at the heart of their existence. The tension, stress and unrest in the family also have a very negative effect on children. The Children's Ombudsman warned two weeks ago at a hearing that there are no facilities and care for the protection of children and that children's interests are not yet sufficiently taken into account in the decisions. More attention needs to be paid to children and their mental resilience. For this reason, the Animal Party, together with Mr Tom van der Lee and a number of other groups, is immediately tabling a motion asking for an investigation into the consequences of mining damage on the well-being of children. During the same hearing, it was confirmed that the constant changes in the rules of the game have led to a low level of confidence in the government. Scientists, civil society organisations and aid workers gave a very clear signal: keep the Ministry of EZK as far away as possible. I do not have to table a motion on this, because there is already a vote on this. Make the VWS Ministry responsible for mental reinforcement and give as much space as possible to the region itself. Residents need to direct organizations they know and trust. I can assure you that the residents do not trust the Ministry of EZK, because that is the Ministry of Gas extraction and not the Ministry of Mental Fortification, nor can it. Yesterday we had a technical briefing to clarify the latest reinforcement recommendations. There has been a bizarre shift in the number of houses. The reinforcement operation initially involved more than 100,000 houses, then 22,000 and since this week there are only 1,500 acute and serious cases left. This means that many people have lived for years in uncertainty, fear and stress for nothing, and they still do. How is all this messing with numbers? The committee for EZK held a hearing yesterday on the reinforcement operation. We were told from several quarters that there was an active steering in the discussion on the reinforcement. The TNO expert indicated that it was not easy to distinguish the risks in the gas file, for example. I quote the TNO expert: 'around our values forces that stopped that'. The Dutch Standards Institute, NEN, was more explicit and said that an adapted and more accurate standard for earthquake-proof construction was already available in 2016, but was not published under pressure and could not be used. The NCG would have put pressure on this. The assessment of the size of the reinforcement operation was therefore deliberately based on outdated and outdated information with an unnecessarily large margin of uncertainty. Professor Helsloot of Radboud University Nijmegen said that colleagues had not felt free to express themselves freely and independently about the reinforcement operation. Mr. Chairman. I find this shocking. As a result, a lot of fog has been created over the reinforcement operation in recent years. This has led to an enormous amount of uncertainty and frustration. In any case, it is very worrying that scientists and independent advisory bodies seem to feel constrained or sometimes even prevented from speaking freely in such an incredibly important social dossier and that there is no transparency either. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday's hearing was really the drop that made the bucket run. So much has gone wrong. Too much has gone wrong. In the beginning of this year, the Minister mentioned the action on the Groningen dossier itself as a government failure of non-Dutch proportions. That's what we think. As far as we're concerned, time is really there. We really think that this calls for a parliamentary survey. I shall now retable a motion with the SP in which we are asking for it. There are too many unexplained things now. There are too many questions left. The need for a parliamentary survey has only increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u68	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gas extraction's going to zero. It is rapidly becoming much safer and more and more clear about the call for reinforcement. Last Monday, the Mining Council came up with a clear opinion: first, strengthen the most risky buildings, enter into the conversation when commitments have been made and expectations have been raised, let residents choose and build together with the region on the future perspective. At the same time, many residents do not yet experience this clarity in their personal situation. The uncertainty is still there. "See first, then believe" I hear from them and I can understand that very well. When does the Minister expect clarity for residents? Last Monday, it became clear that 1,000 buildings that were not previously in the picture should be tackled with priority. When will the action plan be ready and the residents will be informed? Mr. Chairman. The break in the reinforcement exercise was very difficult for people who already had reinforcement advice or would receive it in the short term. At the same time, the Mining Council's report has brought us to the table that we were working on strengthening some of the wrong homes. The Minister is right to speak of a confusing message. At first, the apartment wasn't safe, but now it is. Within two weeks, residents will be informed. The Mining Council also talks about dialogue with residents and owners. How and when will this dialogue start? How are people supported in the difficult choice they have to make? Is a clear opinion also part of this dialogue? Mr. Chairman. Now that we know where the greatest risks to safety are, we need to get to work as quickly as possible. I still have questions about the approach. This was also discussed in detail in the technical briefing yesterday. There was a call for generic reinforcement measures per housing typology as this could quickly achieve much more security. At the same time, concerns have been expressed about establishing the level of security of housing without an inspection being carried out. Information from the Land Registry and other sources is now being used, but the maintenance of the homes and any renovations may have an impact. How does the Minister deal with the uncertainties in this generic approach? The Minister's letter says that people from the batches get an inspection when they are concerned about their safety. How exactly is that going to happen? Can people in the earthquake area who are concerned about their safety also have an inspection carried out? The State surveillance advises to use the P90 safety margin on the reinforcement notice. This uncertainty margin is discussed with the 5,700 residents. Is it true that the agreement is to strengthen these homes, too, if residents want to? Mr. Chairman. I also understand that no agreement has yet been reached on 70 health care buildings, which have already been inspected. When does the Minister expect to agree on this? And what about farms, monuments and farm buildings? And what about the pilots, like Overschild? Is it true that exchange houses need to be built quickly now, as an important prerequisite for continuing the reinforcement? In many locations there are no swap houses, because there is uncertainty or and how houses are strengthened. Everyone's waiting for the next report and for each other. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Mines Council could not answer the question as to why it was only now that it became clear that we wanted to strengthen the wrong homes. I also heard yesterday, other people referred to this as well: the NCG would have put pressure on scientists not to publish a new NPR. As a result, the reinforcement notice remained unnecessarily large in number of homes and in intensity. As a result, the view of the most unsafe homes was eventually lost. I find that extremely worrying and ask the Minister to respond to this. The Christian Union believes it is important to keep the reduction of gas extraction, and the reinforcement, under review every year in order to be able to adjust, also because the models are likely to be refined. If this happens, I'll ask the Minister. I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u70	Yeah, I can see that, too. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u71	Also bearing in mind what Mr Wassenberg said to you: I have also looked with increasing amazement and listened to what the technicians of the various institutions told us yesterday. But I also find it bewildering that there's going to be blackmail. We haven't been able to hear the NCG about this. But isn't that just a reason why we're going to have a parliamentary survey on this: to figure out all these things too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u72	I have also hesitated for a moment whether or not I should bring it into the debate, but since it was explicitly part of the hearing yesterday, I wanted to appoint it. It is not my intention to blackmail, but to make this an explicit part of the debate. I have also said before: of course there will be a parliamentary inquiry and this will certainly have to be brought to the fore. The question is: when should this parliamentary survey be carried out? Then I say, not now. However, after yesterday it became clear that its need has only increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u73	About the time of that. I'm going to plead in my term to start preparations in this calendar year. I believe that in the autumn we have dealt with most of the laws that still have to be dealt with in this Chamber. Then it's really time to get this going. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u74	During the previous cabinet period, I myself called for a parliamentary survey, because I saw that there was no progress in the dossier. The only person who made sure that a step was taken was the judge: it was only when the judge made a ruling that the cabinet took action. That was my reason for advocating a parliamentary survey: to get things on the table. What I see now is that there is a cabinet that picks up things at a huge pace; sometimes even a little faster than the opposition parties like it. I welcome the quick approach of the cabinet and I would like to give the room for that. I think that if we start a parliamentary survey now, the focus is not on a quick approach for the people in Groningen, but on the parliamentary survey. And that would really be the wrong focus right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u75	I didn't like what you did in the direction of Hans Alders. He can't defend himself either. Anyway, I'll leave that on your account. I was wondering what you meant by "the cabinet goes faster than some opposition parties want"? I can't think of a single example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u76	I believe that last week a number of opposition parties called for the debate on the legislative proposal to minimize gas extraction to be postponed. My group did not think that was a very good idea, because that means that there is a delay, that the bill cannot be introduced in time for the new gas extraction decision and that we will eventually gain more gas than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u77	Then that's cleared up. That is the push through of the Gas Act, while all of Groningen's civil society organisations call for us to do it carefully and weigh it better. We also have a whole debate in the Chamber and the Minister has written a whole letter. That is what Mrs Dik-Faber means by 'the opposition sometimes wants to slow down'. Well, she's right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u78	I believe that we have had a very careful process, with a written round, with technical briefings, with two debate periods in the Chamber and today even a third term. Much more information has come to the Chamber, so how carefully would Mr Nijboer want it? I'm moving on. I had to delete very much from my text. I'm about to come to a conclusion. I want to look forward, the perspective of the future. The first two routes outlined by the Mining Council are a priority, but also the third route, offering a future perspective, is very important. The Mining Council writes: "We see that people in the region are afraid that they will be 'forgotten', now that there is a view of the end of gas extraction in the foreseeable future." "Pacify"................................................................................................................................................................ We must join forces, with an important role for the region. There has to be a shared perspective. I look forward to this joint approach. Finally. We received a letter about the old claims reports. The figures are clear, but behind all these figures are people's stories. We got a black book from that too. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether the damage settlement has been satisfactory so that we can learn from it for the future? The Mining Council advises to close files by acting generously because there has been too much money in transaction costs. I'm still getting emails about damages cases the handling of which sometimes drags on for years. How is this recommendation of the Mining Council followed up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u79	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 55 years ago, the Groningen engineer Willem Meiborg already advocated the setting up of a compensation fund. For decades, we have put warnings in the wind and neglected the risks to the Groningen people. That alone is a reason for a parliamentary survey. In recent weeks, since I have been speaking on this dossier, I have raised a lot more questions and raised reasons why the survey should be launched quickly, but at the end of this calendar year. Last Saturday's publication by Follow the Money is a merciless display of the scandalous, inadequate damages handling. The NAM never performed equestrianly and generously, but greedy and harsh. There were perverse incentives that mainly gave all kinds of advisors and lawyers a super fat sandwich. Thousands of people have been driven to despair. I have a lot of scepticism about the final bid of the NAM. People are exhausted and accept the offer out of despair. Does the Minister actually think that the NAM's so-called appropriate offer is a cavalier and generous offer? Is the Minister prepared to have an independent investigation conducted into the satisfaction of the victims of the NAM's final bid and to have them interrogated himself? The damage that is being compensated is cosmetic repairs. Structural damage to constructions marks the NAM as reinforcement and that is another window. People are deliberately sent into the reeds with a bunch of them. This is particularly distressing now in a bizarre way to increase the number of houses being reduced from 150,000 once, by an intermediate step of 22,000, to a core group of 1,500 buildings, and on top of that 5,700 dialogue buildings; that's just what I'm calling them. That is what the Mining Council is actually saying: they are not unsafe, but because of expectations and promises, residents themselves must be given the choice or reinforcement is desirable. GroenLinks, of course, thinks it is a gain that by turning off the gas tap, security can be guaranteed more quickly, at least if we now really speed up the strengthening of those 1,500 most vulnerable homes. Around the corner, and this is also the case for the survey, the fact is that yesterday during the briefing, the experts suddenly reported that there has been too long work on too conservative a building standard. And then there was black guy. That's not nice to see, but that's also in itself I've just said it in the case of interrupting really a reason to find out all of this in a survey. All these institutions have been involved for years, and they themselves have a responsibility to bring them forward when they have new facts and new knowledge. In addition, I have serious doubts about the quality, assumptions and independence of the model used. That is also what I tried to denounce during the technical briefing. Unfortunately, for the sake of time, I cannot go into that now. But it is crucial that this model is validated as well and as quickly as possible, including to the practice, and therefore also to physical inspections. Will the Minister also see to it that there is a real time digital tool "Sorry for English" in which all buildings to be reinforced are made visible? So these are the 1,500 out of the model, all buildings that need to be strengthened because of structural damage after inspection and all buildings that need to be strengthened after a dialogue, so that we can all see, in Groningen but also here in Parliament, which buildings are involved and that information can also be put back in the model to improve annual calculations. I have several other wishes. The safety margin advocated by the SodM and the Mining Council must be taken seriously. The dialogue buildings must ensure that people have real control, because dialogue is rarely power-free. Who is going to have this dialogue with the people, are they going to have support for it, can they appeal and why are all these costs being placed with the State? That's part of the mining damage, isn't it? I don't understand. Communication is important. That's what it was all about during the interruption. If we think we have clarity about the policy we intend to pursue, that does not mean that people at home have that clarity. I also think it would be good if the Minister made that distinction in communication. For reasons of transparency, does he also want to draw up an annual agenda for the important moments, every year? Because we'll get calculations every year, and a new gas decision. We're getting reports. It would be nice for everyone involved to have an insightful annual review, so that everyone knows where they stand in time. I don't read and hear any more about the area-oriented approach and a new perspective for Groningen. There's gonna be a billion dollars. We know that. Would the Minister ask the WRR to support the Groningen people in developing area-based approaches and new perspectives so that it becomes sustainable, social and economical? I can't say anything about that now, but there's going to be a motion about the impact on children. Please investigate. And let's start with that survey at the end of the year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u81	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u82	Thank you, Mr President. The umpteenth debate on Groningen, a debate on the reinforcement operation and the settlement of damages. And it's time we really started talking about it and really speeded it up. Because isn't it really sad that we are being forced to talk about a half-baked bill, about a bad gas deal, about Shell and Exxon being beaten up, about a minister who's in a state of trouble and being secretive and about all the other misery, and that the damage handling and the reinforcement operation itself are actually a little under-snowed? Mr. Chairman. What a mess! Last Monday, the Mining Council came up with its advice. The result: new numbers again. In Overschild the flag was hung half-stick, because it has made everything even more unclear. According to the Mining Council, 1,500 homes need to be reinforced immediately. And with 2,200 residents, certain expectations have been raised and commitments have often been made. The Mining Council believes that those too should be honored under the guise of "promise is promised; keep agreements." And that's the way it should be. For example, 1,588 homes, recently shut down by the Minister, will still be strengthened, although most of them are safe according to the Mining Council. So the question now is what on earth has been the point of postponing that reinforcement? What did the Minister gain from that? In any case, what he has lost is clear: that is another piece of confidence. At the end of an additional ministerial council, the Minister initially said that the costs of strengthening these houses are borne by the State, the province, the municipalities and the housing corporations. That was under the guise of: all the wallets are in. But soon this turned out to be wrong. An hour later, the Minister's statement was corrected by his own spokesman. The costs will be borne by the State anyway. In the meantime, the Minister has already raised the anger of the Groningen people. "Nice and convenient," I'd say. And how is this possible? It's a lot of houses, it's a lot of money, it's a lot of doomed people, and that at a time when trust among those who have fallen to a low point. And then one of those screwups! From a minister who recently spent all sorts of memos on the dividend tax and who, as Secretary of State for Finance, was responsible for the enormous mess at the Tax Office, we should have expected a little less trouble on this dossier. A countless times the Minister has said that the NAM pays. But apparently this is not about the costs of the 1,588 homes, because they are officially labelled "safe." Should the NAM not simply bear all the costs, regardless of whether a property is safe due to the damage or not? In other words: what does the fact that the damage does not result in unsafe situations? It is the damage caused by the extraction of gas. Damage is damage! Then there's the guarantees. According to Professor of Corporate Law, Mr Bartman, Shell and Exxon's guarantees offer only limited security. The damage to be recovered is now limited to the amount of own funds of the two subsidiaries. Shell's own funds amounted to 2.9 billion at the end of the financial year 2016. That's not nearly enough, is it? How is the Minister going to guarantee that there will be enough money? It stays messy and shady. The King's Groningen Commissioner said the day before yesterday: I think the Minister is a little tired. I'm not even gonna ask the Minister if that's true, but I'm gonna ask him if he realizes how tired the duped Groningers are by now. Troubled, tired of years of misery. Of course it is good news that the reinforcement will start again. Of course! In particular, let us not stare blindly at the numbers mentioned so often: 1,500, 2,200, 1,588. It's all just numbers. We need to be aware of all damage cases, including old damages cases. We must not forget this, because Mrs Beckerman has already said that people are being shipped off with a tip. That's impossible, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? The PVV says to the Minister: make sure that real progress is made now and that we are not debating again in a while because all the promises have not been fulfilled. It is not for nothing that the Mining Council recommends that not only houses, but also confidence should be strengthened. Unfortunately, the Minister still has a long way to go in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u83	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now turn to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u84	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman has already used talking quotes, but I have a quote that is steeped in despair and hopelessness: "You see tears everywhere and you know it's unsafe. They promise they'll be okay, but they don't keep their promises. It wakes you up, it tears you down." That is a bit of the atmosphere, the background to this discussion. The Minister bases his new approach to strengthening on the assumption that the decline in gas extraction will reduce the number of tremors. It will undoubtedly be scientifically substantiated, but it will still have to be demonstrated in practice. State surveillance notes that it cannot be excluded that the number of tremors and the risk of more severe tremors remain the same in the coming years. Is there not a real chance that the promised phasing-out of gas extraction will be delayed? A severe winter can already throw soot in the food. All this is still separate from the safety experience. That is why we are advocating a generous strengthening approach. Do not remove the group of 5,700 buildings with the words "actually there is no need for reinforcement'. Take it seriously. Choose, as the State surveillance advised, for an offer of required measures on the basis of inspection. TNO indicated that within one or two months you can visit all these houses briefly to get an idea of the constructive properties. It makes a lot of difference whether you have a wooden or a concrete interfloor. Is the Minister going to work on this in this sense too? Choose to physically inspect as many houses as possible as people would like, even outside the more than 7,000 houses selected by the Mining Council. Do not create people with a model calculation that, according to their sense of home, is inadequate. The Minister says that the reinforcement costs for the 5,700 building group cannot be recovered from the NAM because there would be no serious security problem. I don't understand. Some of them just live in an unsafe house now. I just named all the uncertainties that aren't in the models, but they are. It's just about security, not a sweetener, a ransom or something like that. How can it be that two thirds of the 1,500 buildings that need to be strengthened as a matter of priority are not in the current three batches and have been overlooked before? I would like to explain this. Then there is the problem of agriculture. Mrs Mulder and Mrs Sazias also referred to this. The agricultural sector is particularly affected. Farmers have problems that so far cannot be addressed sufficiently: leaking dungeons, sagging silos and concrete paths, drainage problems caused by both earthquakes and soil decline. In the February debate, the Minister undertook to look at this again. It may have escaped me, but I have not seen much of it so far. Farmers indicate that they are still being sent from the cabinet to the wall. With Mr Nijboer, I ask the Minister to set up a separate programme, just as has happened for schools, and to organise regular consultations between agriculture and the authorities concerned. Finally, Mr President, the old, lingering damage cases. They still have to deal with the old NAM approach. The Minister had promised that the NAM would come up with a generous offer. But what I hear back, and I really am not the only one, is that in many cases there is little of that. Each crack shall be held against the light and repairs shall be kept as limited as possible. Citizens feel mangled. Is the Minister prepared to allow all cases not yet dealt with to be dealt with through the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the reinforcement and damage handling in Groningen, an important topic for Groningers because it touches the core of safety and security: knowing that you are sleeping in a safe house, that your children are safe, that you do not have to spend day and night worrying feelings, inspection, forms, decisions and more. It is therefore extremely important that the inhabitants of Groningen are generously compensated for their damage and that there is clarity about strengthening their homes. In addition, it becomes a lot easier now that Groningers have nothing to do with the NAM. Before I go any further, I need something else from the heart. We have heard it from a number of colleagues. Yesterday we were present at the technical briefing on the opinions of independent experts and scientists on the safety risks and the reinforcement exercise. I must honestly say that my mouth fell open when several scientists indicated that the risk calculations were based on old conservative models from 2014 and not on the advanced knowledge that was already available in 2017. The reason that this knowledge has just reached us is the fact that experts, in their own words, did not feel free to come out with it, partly under pressure from the National Coordinator Groningen. It's not for blackmailing, but it's shocking. The effect of all this was that for years the number of houses that would be unsafe has been estimated tremendously high. As was explained to us yesterday: an overestimate of the risk is also a risk. After all, you do not tackle the most unsafe homes and you ensure that many Groningers feel unnecessarily unsafe and are unnecessarily insecure. These are not my words; this is what was told us time and time again yesterday by independent researchers. This information alone is enough to say that the reinforcement task really needs to be completely different. I'm glad we're gonna do the same. That's what I'm talking about today. All independent investigations show that the planned extraction of Groningen gas makes Groningen safer at a rapid pace. I quote the chairman of the Mining Council: to the left or to the right, it is really going to be much safer. We now have the basis and we have the most up-to-date figures, so we can finally clear up to Groningers. Let's start with safety. We now know that 1,500 buildings are not safe and that they need to be arrested as a matter of urgency. Partly by using old standards, the painful conclusion is that only one third of these 1,500 buildings were in the first three batches. That means that 1,000 unsafe homes at the current pace would really not have been the turn for the time being. Of course, that's insufferable. The Mining Council is also very clear about this. We all heard it yesterday. If the Minister had not pressed the pause button, it would have been at the expense of security. A harsh conclusion, but also one that shows us that we have done the right thing in recent months, no matter how complicated that has been for some. I can understand that, too. I really hope that we will be able to avoid these feelings of uncertainty in the future. It is worth a sweet thing to all of us, I think, and in the first place, of course, our Groningers. All unsafe houses are strengthened with priority and the NAM pays the costs. Can the Minister indicate how this will go further in his work? The VVD assumes that these residents will be notified in the very short term and that the reinforcement can be started immediately. In addition, we are of course dealing with Groningers from the so-called second batch, the 1,588 addresses, who felt the uncertainty when they heard that the pause button was pressed. The VVD is also there for those people who now hear that it is safe, but who understandably still feel uncertainty because expectations were raised. It is very good that the Minister takes over the advice of the Mining Council and offers everyone to look together to see what is possible. If someone feels safer with reinforcements or new constructions, we just do. Here, too, the question to the Minister: what happens now? When are these people gonna hear more? Of course there are the people in the third batch who might want extra security as well. They can be lightly inspected if they so wish. Again the question: how else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u87	Mrs Agnes Mulder doubts whether or not she will ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u88	We can do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u89	Mr. Chairman. The reinforcement notice should be redesigned, based on current findings, correct figures and with the focus on safety. Can the Minister elaborate on this? Then there's the damage settlement. I would like to know the state of play of the old damage that the NAM would consider generously. With regard to the new damages in the new temporary compensation window, can the Minister give a more detailed account of the procedure and the initial results? I myself visited the damage counter two weeks ago. I was very impressed by the people, Groningers, who try to help other Groningers there every day. I am very curious about the experience and information the Minister has on this. I hope that our Groningers will not only hear, but also see, experience and start to feel that we are working together with the region, with the corporations and with everyone else to put an end to the period of uncertainty and insecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u90	Perhaps still in the area of that latest knowledge and insecurity. How does Mrs Yeşilgöz see that? We've got people in different batches. They're gonna be offering us lots of stuff. Can she tell me anything about how she would like to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u91	I am actually very pleased with Mrs Mulder's question, because I did not go into that in my speech. I only had seven seconds. Of course, we are going to monitor annually what this margin of uncertainty looks like and can change it. As far as we are concerned, we need to act quickly as soon as it becomes clear that a home is unsafe, even though it may not now be at that number of addresses, but that changes. By definition, that will have to pay the NAM. So I am glad that this question has been asked and that I can clarify it. As far as the VVD is concerned, the NAM pays by definition in the event of insecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u92	Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u93	I think I'm only allowed to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u94	You've seen that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u95	I also hope for a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u96	What an honor that your last interruption is for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u97	You're the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u98	Oh, that'll be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u99	But I saved it especially for you. You have a very positive story. I'm really shocked by the stories in my black book of all those people with old damages. I mentioned Helma Tigelaar, who according to the counter expert has €125,000 damage and does not receive 5,000 yet. I made a proposal to the Minister. Come with a general's pardon, so those people don't... Some have accepted it and some fight on, but they may have to wait another year. Do you agree with me that the Minister should now arrange for all those people who have been waiting for so long to get a fair offer this summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u100	Thank you for this question, too. Every harrowing story, every story that a life like that is behind and what hasn't been picked up yet, one is too much. So I am glad that this question has been asked to the Minister and that he can respond to it. What's it look like with the old damage? We've seen the same numbers. The vast majority of people have accepted the offer of the NAM. There is a 10% share that is simply not satisfied with that and a 17% share has yet to be heard. These are percentages, and I think it is very good that Mrs Beckerman said: 'I am going to zoom in on the stories behind these numbers' and that she is going to ask the Minister how we are dealing with the old damage that has not yet been dealt with correctly. I'd like to wait for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u101	Yes, but that invites you to repeat the same question, because the question has been asked to you. Otherwise Mrs Beckerman will have the floor again, and I really do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u102	Yeah, we'll share that. I'd really like to know... We are talking about 17% who have not yet spoken and 10% who are not satisfied with it, which I can understand very well when I hear the stories like that. I really want to hear from the Minister how he thinks it is best to deal with that. Mrs Beckerman asks how the VVD is in there. As we have always said, generous compensation for those who have been in harm for so long. There can be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u103	Then Mr Nijboer has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u104	My last, too, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Yeşilgöz is shocked at Mr Alders, who is still just a civil servant, so the Minister is responsible. So she's also shocked about her own minister. She's shocked about investigations. I would once find it so beautiful and important to be in such a debate, and I would think this is the time to be shocked at what is happening to the Groningen people, to hear about it from the VVD. About people who've been dealing with damage for years that's been badly solved. About people who don't know what they're up to. About people who are not received by the Minister, who have come here and who simply have to return home in a more unsatisfying way. I would have liked to have seen the shock of a people representative of the VVD there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u105	I would like to begin by inviting Mr Nijboer to take a look back at the expert meeting, the briefing we had yesterday and, unfortunately, he was unable to attend because he was in another debate. 'Cause it was a hell of a thing we heard there. People said, independent scientists: we had new information, we warned about it, you keep the Groningers in uncertainty longer if you continue with it this way. That's what was deliberately chosen. That's shocking, of course. But it is a very good question from Mr Nijboer, of course, precisely because the VVD says: the safety of Groningers must be central. That hasn't been the case lately. You have also heard the Minister say that clearly. So we're quitting the gas extraction. We've removed the new damage from the NAM and a window has been set up. Old damages are paid as generously as possible. The reinforcement is also removed completely from the NAM and will be fully reimbursed. Unsafe houses go first. With people who say that expectations have worked, we also go to the table and we say to that: of course you are right. It's not just about words. It's also about actions. I believe that this Minister has been working very hard over the past eight to nine months to get it right there, and I hope that we can support that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u106	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u107	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u108	Mr. Chairman. Damage and reinforcements. I would first like to comment on the old damages cases and then on the TCMG, about which several questions have been asked. I want to strengthen it in such a way that I pass through the Mining Council's opinion on the basis of the agreements I made with the region on this matter. Then there are all kinds of questions from the various spokesmen, which I will take with me. I will then pass every question from every spokesperson, as far as has not yet been answered. I'll start with the old cases. Those old cases must be pretty much where the dialogue between the Chamber and the Cabinet started on this subject, because at the beginning of this cabinet period we stood for a situation in which the damages were no longer paid out. The damages payments stopped, the entire damage settlement stopped. I said at that time that I found it impossible to cause damage, but not to compensate for it. That is not acceptable. We were in complete agreement here in this Chamber. Two steps have then been taken. We have settled the damages for the new cases in public law, although that is not quite in the final way. I would have preferred to have done it in a final way, but this is now the subject of a legislative proposal in consultation. In addition, we have forced the old cases to be housed at the NAM. I still think that I will say something about this later too, which could not have been otherwise. That too was more because it was only possible, and not because we all wanted it that way. That was all very clear. We had no difference of opinion on that. It wasn't my ideal image. The various spokesmen have said: 100% would have received an offer. There was just a name of someone who would have had an old damage, but wouldn't have had an offer. That can still be checked. According to the report, 100% would have an offer. Three quarters would have been dealt with. And whether that's always in a way that's been yelling at people for years? I guess we don't all think that. Some have refused and some have not yet responded. I have discussed this with the King's Commissioner several times, with the NAM, to monitor progress. We have first established that action must be taken towards those who have not yet responded. There's a time limit for that. The last people received an offer in the last week of June. They then originally have three, but now four weeks to respond. That's a week or three from now on. We think it's useful to call these people and the NAM has agreed to do so. There is also something furnished in the office in Loppersum so that people who have questions can go there. A lot of concern has been heard about the limited time. We've stretched it from three to four weeks. We've also extended the time limit for you to go to the arbitrator. In addition to the fact that there are people who have not yet responded, there are also people who have rejected the offer. We are grateful for Mrs Beckerman's black book, I say that sincerely, but we have also received signals. We're not sitting still. Signals are coming in to the region and to the department. As a result, last week the King's Commissioner and I discussed with the NAM that this is not enough for us. The NAM then indicated to see for itself what the reasons might be for people to reject the offer. The King's Commissioner and I agreed at that time that we would also conduct our own inquiry into what could be the reasons for rejecting the offer. We too have heard that there would have been too much cosmetic work. That is what we want to see for ourselves. We have set this in motion because, if we promise to keep an eye on it, we must also be able to identify what is going on among those who do not think the offer is good enough. Do people ask things that don't go well over the stage? Is there any clarity? Are other calculation methods used? We need to understand that. That is why I have agreed with the King's Commissioner to dive in on his own and to look into the people who have found reason to reject the offer of the NAM. We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u109	Ma'am... Yes, perhaps you'd like to finish your sentence first, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u110	There are other black books than Mrs Beckerman's. We've also received statements from the Groninger Gas Council. There are also names of people who have accepted it, but have a story that we do not think is the way it should be. You can't judge it until you have all the facts. Those files don't have all the facts, so we've said we're gonna dive into that. So that file hasn't been finalised yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u111	The Minister was right to say that this was one of the first decisions I made as a minister. It is very sad to note that it has become such a huge debris box. People get an offer of €5,000 from the NAM, while a counter expert says it should be €125,000. That's a tip, while people are fighting for years. It's so incredibly insufferable. Mr Nijboer, Mrs Van Tongeren and I have asked several times for independent research. It is very nice that the Minister is now promising this, but more is needed. Is the Minister prepared to look at a general's pardon, in which people are still being offered a reasonable offer? This will also have to apply to those who have accepted it after they are tired and tired and have said: I can't do this anymore; I have to accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u112	These kind of words really don't fit. I would like to assume that if there have been 6,200 cases, there are also cases that have not gone as we had imagined. Three quarters of the people have accepted it, 4,500 cases have been unsubscribed and I am not moving to any other judgements until I have properly investigated it. That's what we're going to do with the few people who have accepted it, but have a story that's got us worried. We're also gonna do it to some people who turned it down. Then I'll come to conclusions. If I think it has not been done properly, it is at that time that it is time to address the NAM. We have not said before that we do not want to investigate it. We said we'd finish it first and then we'd like to see what's going on. That is the moment, and we decided on this last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u113	An investigation among a few people who are angry and have accepted it and a few people who have not accepted it. You yourself say that you have received several black books, not only from me but also from others, also from the independent counselor. These are people who are really sick of misery. I really appreciate your research, but I'd like to know what you're gonna do with it after that. With the word "research," the Groningers are ready. They have a lot of them, and they need action. This was your first decision. Can you not indicate in advance that I will also table a motion on this if you do not do so, that these people are given a reasonable offer, that everyone deserves a reasonable offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u114	We agreed six months ago that everyone deserves a reasonable offer. The question is whether this is reasonable, whether there are other things going on, whether there have been things in the system that have been careless, or whether we are dealing here with people who have a different estimate of what is reasonable. It's all possible. I'm gonna check that out. I promised to give the NAM a chance first and then to assess whether that went well. That's what I'm doing with the King's commissioner. This is what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u115	I welcome the commitment. In the first term, I asked for an investigation, and that's what the Minister's gonna do. In fact, he's already agreed. I'm assuming we'll get it as soon as it gets there. There's one aspect to it that the minister just said something about. Suppose people have been told: for a cosmetic repair you get money, but structural damage is reinforcement. Then I wonder: is this repaired by the NAM for the old cases, or do these people still have to go to the temporary committee if it turns out that they are not going to be helped in the regular reinforcement operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u116	If we think it's damage, then they shouldn't end up in the TCMG but just be helped by the NAM. This is one of the things that the King's Commissioner and I are going to pay attention to, because we have heard these stories several times. This is one. If there really is reinforcement, even if it is necessary to strengthen it, it must be done. There's no doubt about that. But I'll be on backup in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u118	We have also stated that we will temporarily have a public office for the new damages. At the time, I indicated that that would still be a heavy burden. We had to stomp a whole organization out of the ground in a few weeks, including renting a property. We had a bell floor set up. We've made a damage protocol with the region, but that whole process still had to be set up. Experts had to be recruited, as well as specialist staff. We also said that we wanted to use as little as possible people who have done so before for NAM or CVW. Let me judge for myself: I think that it has simply not come out of the starting blocks. I'm not happy about that yet. I don't care. This has got to be better. We've started an analysis: how did this happen, which is why we haven't reached the pace yet? Then, first of all, to my concern, the files certainly do not decide. In the meantime, there were many cases where too little had been done, too short to allow for an injury assessment to be carried out, and in some cases they were almost blank. Then you have name, address, place of residence, and that's it. That means we have a huge backlog to catch up on, and that for an organization that really needs to get out of the starting blocks. I think that's a bit of a setback. That's what worries me. Secondly, in our intention to use as few people as possible from NAM and CVW, we have allowed us too little availability from high-quality damage experts. Those are two things that we need to change. There's more. I also spoke with the chairman of the committee about ICT, about tools, about working methods. The Temporary Committee on Mining Damage, Groningen, is preparing for acceleration options, is working on this and I intend to keep your Chamber informed. But I'm not reassured yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u119	It is very nice to hear that the Minister shares those concerns and that he is on top of that with the committee. One of the things I hear back is that even in relatively small damages with relatively small amounts there is a rather complicated lead time. Does the Minister see an opportunity to deal with minor damages with small amounts of damage without a great deal of red tape?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u120	This is without doubt the intention of the temporary committee. That is one of the starting points of the design. The fact that you distinguish between small and large is also based on how you deal with insurance. But the point is that with a lot of files at the moment, to my great regret, you can't even judge whether it's a minor or a major damage, because the file is too little worked out. In the meantime, since the time it has stood still, the new damage afterwards has really not worked out enough to make a flying start with it. We are now working out a backlog, and that is hard for the committee, I just have to say. Mr President, so much for damage. I will come back to that, both the old ones and the new ones, because we are just not done with this. I wanted to talk about backup now, too. I would like to go through the agreements I made with the region this week on the basis of the Mining Council's recommendation as much as possible. I think that is important to know; I have also shared this with the Chamber several times and I think that questions about this are also quite symmetrically answered, and that is that the reinforcement file, the reinforcement operation, is really one of the most headache-giving parts of the issue in Groningen. We have been behind schedule more than 90% since 2015, despite all good intentions, despite all the things that the Empire and all the governments were involved in and despite an incredible effort, including from the region. I called that a "government failure." All governments are involved. Everyone's tried that. That doesn't include any name in particular. I am now co-responsible for that. Everyone's worked hard on that, but this can't be. That's why we stopped the gas extraction. And it was also the reason for me, in a changing situation, to ask the Mining Council's advice to really look again at how this should be done, because the old situation, say, continues to win, and an extremely intensive and drastic reinforcement operation was not feasible. The Mining Council says two things. It says: the extraction of gas has a very large effect on safety. We go back very drastically in the number of buildings. Mr Bishop says: I have to see all this; don't you think you should be safer? But that's exactly what I asked the Mining Council. We have assembled the best earthquake experts and subsurface experts in the Netherlands. We have made a heavy appeal to them to come up with an opinion in no time. This, as has been confessed to me, was the most difficult advice in the history of the Mining Council. All those experts who have worked on it have achieved a phenomenal achievement. Then it is also appropriate for me not to depart from what these experts think is the fastest way to safety and not to let go of their own lay judgment and still do other things. I'm system responsible for security in the area. I have asked the best experts to make an assessment of this. I must take that advice very seriously. So the first is that it has a very positive effect on safety and the second is that the operation actually has to be completely different. The Mining Council says two fundamental things about that. Firstly, it must be risk-oriented. So it's not like there would be no more area concerns. They also need to be addressed, but they need to be disconnected from the security operation. So it needs to be much more risk-oriented. So that's also about the story of the 1,000 homes. Secondly, however, the Mining Council is actually saying that we should not do so at a very slow pace by means of a very intensive reinforcement; we should, precisely by means of a faster process, a faster assessment, a lighter reinforcement and less houses, make more speed in order to ultimately bring what that operation is intended for, namely simply safety. That is what I have agreed with the region. We knew that we were in any case obliged to make agreements to work out the new approach that really puts us in a new position. We also knew that we needed to provide clarity for 1,588 people. That has resulted in a lot of homework for the summer, but also clarity now, and I will say something about that in a moment. I must say that it has been in an extremely pleasant and constructive atmosphere, in the same atmosphere as we have dealt with damage and all kinds of other things together. I also formulated: the team is back. I'm really looking forward to working together. We have a lot to do with each other. One at a time; what are the arrangements that have been made? I would like to draw a passage from Mr Nijboer's text, which may be misunderstood and which is always misunderstood. Maybe we're all not clear anymore. The houses we were working on, roughly 2,000, depending on how you count them, they never stopped. There's no pause button pressed. I heard Mr Nijboer literally talk about doing nothing, not strengthening houses for three months. No, all the houses that were in the reinforcement process, they've been working on it. No reinforcements to a concrete house have been stopped. There isn't. A Mining Council recommendation was requested, and then it was decided not to take irreversible steps for the new houses, besides the 2,000 that continued. Mr Nijboer disagrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u121	We shouldn't fool each other. The mayors were very angry. Why? Because there were a number of houses that would be started. They knew they were unsafe. There were advices or they were on their way. And they're stopped. Then the trial is over, isn't it? I thought we'd have started building these houses differently. Isn't that what the whole debate was about, last time, that the minister didn't want it, and the entire opposition did? I thought that was about moving on to strengthening houses. Or have I been to a very different debate than the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u122	Then I must remind you of your words. You just said that you found that nothing had been done to strengthen houses for three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u123	From that group of houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u124	Look, we're back. Those 2,000 houses have gone through. Let me say very clearly that I said that adding new houses to what would become a demolition machine would wait a while. We postponed that for three months. That is what I think Mr Nijboer and I are saying exactly the same. What did we agree to? We agreed that we would find the mining council's advice leading to bring back security in the area. The Mining Council calls 1,500 buildings. Several speakers have mentioned this. We agreed that there should be a whole plan after the summer. There have been strong warnings from the region that I fully support, namely that we must be extremely careful with addresses. If you get a letter that you live in a risky home, when you don't live in it, or the letter is put in a different name, or isn't meant for that address, or whatever, then you cause panic. If you miss those houses, you're gonna have to send letters again later, and that's all causing new confusion. We have said that we want to exercise the utmost care in registering letters and identifying addresses. Also know that those 1,500 buildings are not 1,500 addresses. That's what it starts with. They're roughly 1,600 homes, but we don't know exactly which ones yet. All that can be traced back to address, but all that has to be checked three times, because we're not going to do it to people that we're sending them the wrong letter. It has been agreed to make a whole plan about what the approach is, what people are entitled to, how that dialogue will go, how you want to communicate with people, and then they get the letter with that information in it. That's one. In that plan the later houses to be strengthened will also come back, but I will come to that in a moment. Second. We've made a decision on the 1,588 homes. This was the group that Mr Nijboer just mentioned, which was asked to wait until July and which is now entitled to security. For them, the termination of gas extraction may have been a pleasant message in the beginning, but that later also led to confusion. For that batch we have determined that the people of the houses that do not meet the standard, but also the houses that do meet the standard, are given the choice to proceed. The people of the houses who strictly do not need reinforcement will be given the opportunity to carry out the old reinforcement advice, but they can also opt for lighter reinforcement measures. I can also imagine that it is a relief for a lot of people that their house does not need to be strengthened. Perhaps lighter measures will suffice. That is what we want to leave to those people themselves. That's a different situation than the one before. These people will be informed in any case; they will then know whether their home should be strictly reinforced. They therefore have a more informed choice. But questions also need to be answered about the order, the pace and so on. But these people are getting clarity. It has been agreed with the region that these people will be informed of what they are entitled to within two weeks. But we have also stated that they were actually informed in advance on Monday evening. There's gonna be a proper letter. That is all going to happen; this is being prepared with the region. But on Monday, a lot of uncertainty fell away for these people. In any case, they shall have the right to choose. Several questions have been asked about the payment of this batch. Mr Kops has even said a number of critical things about this, but I do not think we are quite ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u125	I understand from the Minister that those 1,500 new cases, that is what I would call just a moment's notice as being the most risky, will not receive a letter until later. If I understand correctly, this is done at the explicit request of the region. The people in the 1,588-batch.............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u126	The batch-1.588, which we know very well, we can inform very quickly. We still have to look very closely at the addresses files, because the translation of buildings into houses can also be made. It has to be secure, because these people don't want to send you a wrong letter. The 1,500 people we don't know yet, who have been identified and are really the first to get their turn, receive a well prepared letter after the summer. It will have to be started as soon as possible. It's a deal with the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u127	I think it is very important that this is in line with the region. I would hope we could make a little more haste, but that's my personal experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u128	Yeah, that's desirable. But we have also said that this was a really tough point from the region, that we have to make sure that we do not rush letters and therefore make mistakes with the addresses. That would be really wrong. It is therefore carefully prepared. Everyone wants to send a letter to every resident in the area stating what they can count on in the coming years, but there are really bad experiences with wrong letters to the wrong people. So this is also done at the explicit request of the region, but I fully supported it. A check at the NCG showed that this is very sensible. We have to make sure the right letter gets there. So the 1,588 gets a message in two weeks. The others get message after the summer, including the plan, and then find out what the timing should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u129	I think that's a little late for the 1,500. Of course, there are many more people who are in uncertainty. For example, I spoke to Heft's people in my own hands. They were three family members who all lived in a separate house. Two of them already know that the reinforcement of their home is going on, but one of them doesn't know it yet. They're in the same program. That does a lot to people. Of course, we shouldn't send wrong letters, but a lot of people also want to know if their home is really safe. Can you at least indicate to the Chamber a timetable showing when everyone is going to be informed and what information will be given to them exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u130	Yes. Let me say that now. We all wanted to start the 1,500 most unsafe homes as soon as possible. However, this needs to be more careful. By the way, 500 of them are simply covered in the batches that are going on anyway. The 2,000 homes, many of which in the 1.467 and in the 1.588, continue anyway. They'll get that opportunity. But the 1,000 we don't know yet, and they don't know themselves yet, aren't people who are waiting for something concretely, but who we're going to have to inform neatly, we shouldn't be confronted with a letter that scares the hell out of them, when it turns out they didn't have to. So we're gonna need the summer for that. That is also agreed with the region. And the 1,588 must be done immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u131	Okay. And suppose you're in that 1,588, your house is unsafe, the reinforcements are finished, and you'll get that letter in two weeks. Could that mean they're gonna start in three weeks? What period should we imagine? Mrs Agnes Mulder has tabled a motion, which has been adopted, stating that people should receive a letter this week. You're gonna put that off again. We know that in Groningen, but we want to have a timetable now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u132	Let me say that these people need clarity on Monday, also in the eyes of the region. That has been said at all kinds of press conferences and also by the Commissioner. The region attaches great importance to the creation of clarity on Monday. People in the 1,588-batch know they're in there. That clarity is there, but they're getting a proper letter now. But it is true, and I still have stomach pains of that, that our building capacity is still limited and that we need to think carefully about what we are promising. Mind you, mind you! We have planned to do 5,000 homes a year for the last three years, starting in 2015. That's where we're currently, when I count it that way, 95% behind. So we have to be realistic. We must never again promise people something that is nice to promise, but which we do not deliver. That's a disaster. We can't. We've been trying this seriously all along, with all the good intentions and with an analysis that this could be done. Now we know this couldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u133	So you are also saying that we cannot even start this summer with those houses that have been waiting for a long time and have a reinforcement advice, while we now know that they are unsafe. That is, of course, a painful message. You say you want to do it securely. Can you then make a long-term plan this summer containing it when everything is ready? Then we can have it in the first week that we are back here again, and I think it is much earlier to have it in a new debate on what this is going to mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u134	I have just made some other arrangements with the region, because the region also has occasional recesses. I'm not doing this on my own. I'm really doing this with the region. Yes, I do. We're in this together. There were roughly fifteen administrative representatives of the region, so it was still a heavily visited meeting. We did that to each other, and I have to stick to that. This means that we cannot give clarity to those people with the good letters by August, because we said that we are trying to do so in September. We also said the following to each other. People in the 1,588-batch would have received a reinforcement advice. That's what they're getting now. But they wouldn't have taken their turn immediately, because it was simply totally impossible to arrange that building capacity so quickly. So all this time there has been the thought of "if I have a letter, then I immediately have a new house," but that is also unrealistic. We shouldn't promise unrealistic things. Moreover, and I am really going to talk to the region about this, the 1,500 most urgent houses also need to be done. We have to do that right. We have a Mining Council recommendation that we need to do justice, because it's about security. So we'd all want things here. I am sure that in this area too, there are areas where that is not the case, Mrs Beckerman and I want the same thing. That doesn't apply to every terrain, but it does here. But I would also add that I am no longer willing to deliberately and knowingly raise unrealistic expectations in the area. I'm not doing it anymore. We shouldn't do that anymore. Realism is the only way to get there. There are a lot of Groningen guys who say to me, "You know what? We understand that something can't be done. We only hate it so much when you say that something can be done and it turns out that it can't be done." And that's a true word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u135	I welcome the Minister's commitment, or rather the emphasis, that the people of the 1,588-batch will receive that letter within two weeks and that it will be for the other group in consultation with the September region. It is also important that it has been established in consultation with the region. Some of the houses get a kitchen table conversation, a dialogue, where people may be able to choose from light reinforcement measures or other adjustments. At the technical briefing it was said: in some houses you also have to give advice to those people in that kitchen table, because they may not be able to see what temporary insecurity means. Is the Minister prepared to give advice in these dialogue sessions if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u136	I'll be on that group later, because that's actually about another group. I'd still like to try and get through it in an orderly manner. I'm at 1,588 apartments now. This has been the subject of a question about funding. There was also a lack of clarity about this. I'll explain what I said and what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u137	You'll get back to me, okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u138	Mr Kops creates more uncertainty than there has perhaps ever been. Let me put it this way. For a significant part of this batch of 1,588 homes is of course paid by the NAM, because part of it is unsafe or unsafe...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u139	Will you now answer Mr Jetten's question, or will you come back to it later? Because then I'll go to Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u140	I'll do the group for group. There are three groups: the homes with urgency, the 1,588 homes and the rest. Mr Jetten's question concerns the rest. Several questions have been asked about this batch and I would like to answer them first, but I believe that Mr Van der Lee has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u141	Mr. Van der Lee, what group do you have a question about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u142	I'm talking about the group of the 1,500, especially the part we don't know yet, about 1,000 homes. The Minister spoke about the advice he had received and about his appreciation for the people who made it. You can have a discussion about the model. He doesn't want second guesses. I understand that; I'm not going to do that now. But it was emphasised, also in the briefing, that you have to validate such a model in practice. So you also have to do inspections in practice, probably including those 1,000 homes we don't know yet. Then how is that communicated? Is that the first communication, or is it based on the model that one receives a letter with the text "yes, you have been identified"? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u143	If a house is risky, the first step is to let people know that it's obvious that you're coming to talk to them about reinforcements and that it's possible to talk about them. Firstly, there are options. Secondly, one house is more unsafe than the other and one house is also different from the other. What the Mining Council means with the kitchen table conversations is another group: that also refers to the rest group. On the basis of a model people put a reinforcement advice on the bus is of course not how it goes. You can't. You can't do that from a distance. It is therefore necessary to provide tailor-made solutions, but more on the basis of what they call the catalogue model.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u144	Normally, a debate is meant to get clarification, but it is becoming less and less clear to me. It's obvious, isn't it? Surely the Minister knows at address level which 1,000 houses need urgent reinforcement? That's a well-known fact, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u145	Sure. It's about 1,000 buildings. They need to be translated to address level, but that needs to be checked, because you want to make sure you have the right houses in front of you. There could be mistakes. Really, that region has rightly asked me to pay attention to this. We'd like to check that out. We don't want to go crazy with 1,000 letters in it. Moreover, these people must be told by what procedure the process will run and what they can count on. It's gonna take some study. This takes care. It's about people you're gonna tell their house isn't safe. That requires good preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u146	Yeah, and then I think it's a really crazy start sending people a letter. These people have been established that their home is not safe. Then I really don't think sending a letter is a method for the government. That's where you're gonna go, isn't it? That's what you're calling to say: we've done research and it shows exactly which houses aren't safe? I find that very difficult to determine, because every house is different. Sometimes a house has been renovated and each house has a different state of maintenance. But apparently it's known. You don't send a letter, then you go to people's houses?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u147	Precisely for that, we want to develop an approach during the summer. Touching the doorbell is nothing at all, you're gonna have to let people know in a proper way, with a procedure. You're gonna have to stop by. You're all gonna have to do things. And that's exactly what we're gonna figure out, but it's gonna take a little time. We're not gonna ring the bell in the street after the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u148	I am sorry, but the Minister and also the coalition parties said in the previous debate: on 1 July you will have real clarity. That's a promise. There had to be another week, it was July 8th, but then there would be real clarity. If it is not yet known how people are being informed, where the houses are and what the approach is, if it is now said that they are just getting a letter, and then a proposal for a trial, then that is not possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u149	That's what I promised for the batch of 1,588 homes. That's what I'm talking about. This is about the previous point. Mr Nijboer's point is about houses that weren't in the picture at the time, which we now need to put in the picture. This is about other houses. That's what I'm talking about. Those are the houses, my second group, on which I have reached agreement with the region. Among other things, Mr Kops asked questions about costs. I have said that, of course, the NAM pays a considerable part of it, because it concerns houses that are in the risk group. Those houses are there. There are also houses that, according to the usual calculation, do meet the standards, but no longer with the margin of uncertainty. Those houses are simply under the responsibility of the NAM. Furthermore, I have been promised by the NAM that it will also contribute to the housing which, moreover, appears to be safe, including with the stricter standards. Then a whole inventory was made from BZK for several months. Regular housing schemes are available to contribute to this. There have been all kinds of conversations with the housing corporations, because they are mostly homes of housing corporations. In this context, Mr Verdaas stressed that there was also an own contribution from housing corporations in the region. Then we have agreed with the region that the budgets of the province and the municipalities are indeed not in the picture for this batch. By the way, they're not in the picture for reinforcements at all. That is not what the municipal and provincial budgets are for. But the region is looking at a contribution from a fund for the future. That's what we agreed on. Rich and region are now discussing that fund. But in that sense, the region will contribute, and I have also mentioned the word'society'. So yes, the region also helps, among other things through the housing corporations and through that future fund. But no, that doesn't end up in the county or municipal budget. And that's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u150	I can still follow the perspective of the future and the fact that the region is going to invest there. I have another question about the housing corporations. How the hell are they gonna get hit? Are they going to be compensated for that? Or does it happen in a way that has already been used before, that it is supposed to come with a concession on the landlord's tax, that it is less high, but that there is also an increase in the WWF value, which makes it actually a cigar from its own box?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u151	Mr Van der Lee is now running a little short of BZK's regular housing equipment. There are regular instruments in which you can actually make a contribution through the landlord's levy or in some other way that has to do with gas-free, sustainability or whatever, as any corporation can request if it submits a good plan. In addition, it is common practice to use the own financing capacity of corporations in various forms of renovation. BZK has spoken to these corporations, has made an inventory of the financing capacity and has made appropriate calculations for this purpose. The region and I have been involved in this task, also because Mr Verdaas called on us to do so. His story was actually, guys, put the heads together and solve it together. In particular, he referred to this batch. He also mentioned the housing corporations, the empire and the region, and that's what we just got out of. That happened in a good conversation. We agreed with each other there. Then there's a third group. Those are the houses that, according to the usual calculation, as we have done so far, are safe, but they are also safe, and this also comes from SodM, which, with an additional margin of uncertainty added by SodM, does not yet meet the safety standards. We must also take these houses seriously. So we should also take those houses into the reinforcements. They are also included in the future plans, in which the Mines Council says very clearly that they should not be the first to take their turn. But they are also included in that plan. One special mark has been made by the region, which I really did agree with; we have not discussed it for long. In that batch 1,581 that belongs to that future story, 85% is safe. But these people were also a bit in the process. There is no reinforcement advice available yet, most of them are not yet finished, but those people have been in that process and they may have been worried about safety. We have agreed that at least these people will be given the opportunity to check the safety of their homes once again. This is taken into account in the approach. We have also asked ourselves whether we should do this for the other houses, in what way and to what extent. 'Cause there are other properties. Those people won't get a letter because they're safe. But suppose you live in that area and you have doubts about that. How do we deal with the people who say: it will all be, but I do feel unsafe? We have agreed that this is part of the whole reflection and development in the summer. I'll get back to you on that. The region also felt that we should think in a proper way first. In doing so, we have promised ourselves to work very hard in the summer and to work together with the NCG organisations to reach an approach for those three different groups, i.e. for the most urgent homes and the homes afterwards. And about those 1,588 homes, we just need to clear them up right away and get on with it. That's the deal we made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u152	I don't know if this is the right time for this question. Maybe I've even missed the answer. I'm sorry about that. This is about buildings and homes. We also receive messages from people who ask about, for example, nursing homes. Is that the same level of observation? Is that all in here? If it is not the right time for this question, will the Minister come back to it later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u153	At the time other arrangements were made for schools, but there is also a part in the batches. It's not like we're not gonna do anything that's already been going on. We're already working on 2,000 addresses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u154	I am rather concerned about people who live in the earthquake zone and who suspect that their house is unsafe, have no certainty about it, but who are not part of a particular batch either. The minister just indicated that he understands the concerns and that he is talking about them with the region. Could he describe that a little further? How has this been discussed, what could be possible directions for resolution? I can very well imagine that we can meet people who feel unsafe quickly with a light test. If it turns out there's more to be done, that's what needs to be done. But that light test might do a lot of good and reassure people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u155	The funny thing is that the word "light touch" has indeed fallen. But let me not anticipate that. I have an appointment with the region to find out, so I do not want to anticipate that. In any case, we have agreed that if it would appear that there is a real need for reinforcement measures, within the 1,588 batch or beyond, on the basis of any test, those measures should also be taken. That's crystal clear, because you're not doing a test for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u156	I'm gonna have to be patient. I'm just gonna let it settle. I asked another question in the context of the strengthening. He's straight from the area, so I'd like to introduce him to the minister. I've been told there's a shortage of swap houses. It has been indicated: we are all waiting for each other. It would be good to look at the following where the reinforcement approach is actually being pursued. What if people have to leave their homes for a short time? The availability of swap houses must then be ensured. Is that also something the Minister is thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u157	At least that's what I'm doing from now on. I did not get that signal from the region, but it is clear that the approach must be right. If there's a bottleneck somewhere, it's a limiting factor that lowers the tempo. And one thing is clear: we need to speed up. So I'll just take it into the equation. So I'm going to ask the NCG's office, which is working on this, to include this in the approach, so that we can also see what kind of pace we can make. One thing is clear: tempo is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u158	I am pleased that the Minister, together with the region, wants to look at these inspections and how to tackle them. I share Mrs Dik-Faber's concern. I think it's very widely shared in this Chamber. After the summer, the Minister comes forward with his approach on the overall reinforcement. Does he indicate what the direction is for each group? Is that the clarity that we can expect from the Minister directly in September?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u159	In any case, we need to make it clear to the 1.588 group earlier. But for all the other homes, the urgent and the other homes, so in that large group, we have to have a rough approach. There is talk of "the minister." That's all very nice, but I'm really doing this with the region. This is a project of ten municipalities, the province and the Empire. That's how we talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u160	I appreciate that. I don't think there's any other way. I don't think you should want it any other way. It's nice that the Minister picks it up this way. Are we getting more insight into what the acceleration of the reinforcement can look like? I have been genuinely concerned over the past few months about the fact that only 30 houses have been strengthened in the old style. There are now a further 1,500 houses added. Then I think: how are we going to do this in a good way? Can we read more about it in those plans? Or is that too much to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u161	Let me be honest: I am very concerned about this from November onwards. This is one hell of a point. We're not going anywhere with the reinforcements. The opinion of the Mining Council already contains a lot of elements, such as much less housing and a much faster procedure. Inspection and engineering are really set up in a very different way. The determination of whether it is necessary is really done quite differently. It is also often a question of lighter reinforcement measures. The fact that the NAM is still going out might also help. We really need to speed up. We will have to realise the operational impact, but the ingredients are already in the Mining Advisory Committee. To be honest, they're even tighter than I expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u162	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u163	Before I return to the questions per speaker, there are a few things that several people have asked for. Maybe it's not even complete, but I'm gonna go through the whole story later. I am also asked to respond to the reports that information on safety would have been withheld. I have heard that too, and I must honestly say that I do not have the basis to judge that. It's about people, too. I don't need public service calls. It is about an organisation that, in my view, has been in the front line of an extremely difficult process. In any case, the person who linked his name to it also ran out of my body in my sight and in my presence. He's had to give tough messages to people in difficult times. I'm not gonna judge things I don't quite know. But there is also another approach that I would like to respond to. I was worried about the reinforcements. I have seized the end of gas extraction as a moment to look fundamentally differently at that reinforcement. There is also a fundamentally different approach. We have to do it completely different. I now need all the energy I can get to safety and make progress. I understand the questions that Parliament's supervisory function asks for answers, but I myself say that I now choose to achieve security in Groningen. Progress and clarity for people: it's a tough job. It's not easy and it's not done all of a sudden. We now need all the energy to move on. Without doing anything about all the instruments that Members have in order to satisfy their legitimate curiosity and to carry out their legitimate control duties, I would like to suggest to Members that they do not start a process next to it now, which may result in delays. You're the Room and I'm not. You control me and I do not control you, but as far as I am concerned everything must be aimed at implementing the advice of the Mines Council and creating security. It's still not going to be easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u164	In my view, the Minister refers to the parliamentary survey which several spokesmen have spoken about, including myself. I wonder: does he see that such a moment is possible in this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u165	I find that complicated, because I'm talking about a situation that the plan isn't finished yet. I'm putting the lead in Groningen and thus the safety in Groningen first. I have to keep some distance from the use of parliamentary resources. That's up to Parliament. My story would be: progress first. This is my consideration, and you are Parliament and I are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u166	It's up to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u167	I'm just passing through the questions, because I certainly haven't answered everyone's questions completely. I say to Mr Nijboer that I recognise that there is more than just strengthening and scaling. Because those are negative things. Those are the things you have to do because there is danger then damage. That's just compensating for negative things. There will be a future perspective. I have also made agreements with the region on this. After the summer, in October, we will organise a session to discuss with each other what we are going to do. Yes, there will be resources and there will be plans. They're all in development. I fully endorse that. I hope to have clarified Mr Jetten's question. I have not yet dealt with the issue of taxation. Mr Jetten has asked what it means in terms of taxation. If a person is compensated for damages, he may lose his allowance as a result of having capital. Let us be very hard on this: losing a supplement is also a follow-up damage and must therefore be compensated. I don't think it's wise not to count that ability, because then you're a burden of damage to shifting a private organization, the harm-maker, to the Empire. You don't have to. It's collateral damage. I know it's not always easy to establish, but it's wise to see it that way. But people are definitely entitled to this. I have already replied that schools and health care buildings are covered by the damage protocol. Mr Jetten also asked what would happen to those who already have a reinforcement opinion and who are in the later batches. I think he's talking about the pilots. I'll take a look at him... He's talking about the pilots. He has it in his own hands; his own initiative. Everywhere in the world that works in those batches and people already have their reinforcement advice, it goes on of course. There are also many cases that do have reinforcement advice, but which have not yet begun. Then the standard is that you'll come along if you have a backup advice. The same applies to the pilots heritage and agro. Nothing is mandatory, but anyone who has such reinforcement advice is entitled to it and the rest is included in the new approach. But they are people who are in a pilot, but not really, because they also have no reinforcement advice. I will come back to farmers later, because Mrs Mulder has asked even more detailed questions about this. Furthermore, I think I have answered Mr Jetten's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u168	Thanks to the Minister. Those pilots were in a footnote to the letter, but I wanted that to be extra clear, because it was not in the main text of the letter. Let's get back to the fiscal effects. Nijboer and Beckerman also asked written questions about this. I just got an answer from the minister who's probably right, given his previous office in the cabinet, but I'm not a fiscalist. What does this answer actually mean for Groningers who are told by the Tax Administration: because of a payment of compensation, you will be reduced on your supplement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u169	That's another very operational question. It's a good question. I will see if I can answer that in the second term. It is a very concrete procedural question, but I understand that this is a point for a lot of people, including those who are listening now. I'm gonna try to get an answer to that. Let's see. I have answered a lot of questions from Mrs Mulder, or we shall come back to them. In particular, her question about the farmers was important. There's some of the old cases of farmers. I once received a petition and then I asked for more information. I found out a short time ago that I was sorry to find out that that had remained. That's a little embarrassing, because you're not asking for any follow-up information for nothing, so that's what we're looking at right now. We're looking at the old damage, too. Farmers can of course simply go to the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen. They don't have to go to the NAM anymore. There are also the dungeons and so on and the existing protocols for dungeons are being worked on. That's what the TCMG took. There are also farmers who want to make use of the scheme. That is the Groninger Schuren and Stables Program, in case you want to link expansion activities or any other activities to the reinforcement. LTO Noord has agreed with NAM that NAM's offer will remain on the table for six months. This enables them to regulate the permits and apply for bank loans for their own part. That way we hope that there will be a complete solution. But again, the information offered to me about old cases has been delayed to my regret. There I have to protect the department again, because there are people in the department who are almost falling over. The fact that I'm one of them has nothing to do with it. Let's see. I think I gave Mrs Sazias an impression of the different types of dialogues. Maybe not so clear. That was actually a question from Mr Jetten, who also stayed a bit, I now realize. There are people who meet the standard of safety, but with the increased margin of uncertainty they do not meet. Those people offer you a choice, but you can't just send people a letter saying "you'll do" or "you won't do." I can't. That's not a conversation you can have with people. That's not a humane way of approaching people about safety. So that's what those kitchen tables are for, and then it's supposed to be, so the Mining Council also writes it on "" that they're talking to them about the significance of the safety judgment and the type of measures you could take and the period at which they might still be useful. For some people the unsafe period is quickly over and for others it takes longer. Depending on that, you just have to give people a fair balance. That is the idea behind it, where of course we still have to do the 1,500 addresses first and then these conversations come next. And that's quite a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u170	There are also people who have already had a commitment to reinforcement, while now it may prove that the house is still safe. That promise will be kept, won't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u171	Thanks for the question. Yeah, sure, that's the batch of 1,588 and the batch of 1,467. In one case, it is a commitment, in the other an expectation aroused. Those people are allowed to continue, but you'd also like them to continue informed. After all, these people have the choice to abandon it. If you know your house is safe, you might want to have the choice to say: no polonaise on my body; I'd rather leave it alone. These too must be informed choices. If people change their mind, they can of course just ask someone to reflect on it again. It's gotta be possible. People can change their minds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u172	Yes, but the other way around, people can also think: you can say that my house is safe, but I don't feel that way, and I still want you to implement the reinforcement measures you promised me for my sense of security. In a dialogue, which is always two-sided, you just need to be able to talk about it properly. It's not a one-sided conversation, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u173	At the heart of my agreements with the region is that the people to whom this applies or to whom this is a little bit true are the first two batches of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Even if their house is safe on paper, they can opt for the measures promised to them. These are the 2,000 people who are already in the process and the 1,588 who have had to wait for a while, but who can also have what was conceived under the old standards. So my answer is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u174	Just to be sure: is it not the intention to talk these people out of that idea of strengthening in the dialogue during the kitchen table conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u175	No. In fact, those people are not automatically approached for a kitchen table conversation, only if they change their mind. They can, and then they can ask for an interview. But these people are assuming that they want to use it. In the letter that goes to the 1,588, it will of course be recalled that they can also choose not to do it and that they can also request a call for it. But they're not being forced into anything, and they're not being advised. People have been given the choice. That's what I agreed with the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u176	People need clarity. Yesterday we heard in the technical briefing that getting a choice does not have to be clear, because people still have the choice. The plea during yesterday's briefing was that not everyone is able to make the choice and should therefore be taken at hand. The Minister talked about informed choices, substantive discussions and advice. Those are words that I think are very important in this respect, because not everyone is able to make that choice very autonomously with complete control. Do people get the good help with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u177	The letter to the 1,588 people who have the opportunity to complete the completed reinforcement advice will state that they have a choice. It will also show how they can move forward if they have doubts and how they can talk about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u178	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u179	Mr Wassenberg spoke of 'curdling with figures'. I think he picked up that term in the technical session, if that's what he means. I just answered that. I have also been passing through Mrs Dik-Faber's questions. I am now with Mr Van der Lee. I've informed him that I'm just going to see if I find the offers of the NAM appropriate and generous. That's what we did. Then the real-time digital tool. The wish is, of course, clear. We need to be able to see which houses need to be strengthened permanently. The question is whether you should put that on a site. I don't know if everyone likes the fact that their house is on a site or not. That's what I'm wondering. I think we have a duty to give clarity to all sides, but appropriate. So we need to make it clear to people themselves not only what is going on with their homes, but also what choices they have. Then the Chamber must have information, because that is what you have also asked for. I have announced that I will report on the phasing-out of gas extraction every year and in the beginning myself on a half-yearly basis. There are extensive quarterly reports from the NCG. I think that, frankly, we should turn these into half-yearly reports and eventually into annual reports, otherwise we'll drive each other crazy. Then I said that with Princess Day I would write an integral letter with all the financial aspects associated with gas extraction, because they all work against each other. That seems to me to be the right clarification. I don't know if there's a single document in there that says everything. Then I think we have another document so big that we can't do anything with it. So I'm a little doubting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u180	Did you deal with all the questions put by Mr Van der Lee?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u181	No, not quite.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u182	Then I'd do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u183	Then there's the area-oriented approach. Mr Van der Lee asked a question about this. The Mining Council's advice is clear about it. That says you need to disconnect security and area enhancement. Nevertheless, I agree with the region that where there are opportunities for them not to oppose each other at all, but to allow them to help each other, that possibility could be seized. I believe that I have also made it clear to the region that these considerations should not be made from The Hague. I also feel bad when I tell the region that it needs advice on this. I just wanted to leave that with the region. The region has very detailed ideas on the basis of years of experience with the considerations of territorial orientation. I have made it clear that, in designing the new approach to this aspect, I really look more at the region and try to respect, within the framework of security, what comes out of it, because they know more, have more interest in it, are more involved and have roles in it. I do not want to say here from The Hague that they need advice. I think that's really weird. I want to do that in my dialogue with the region and listen to the region in particular. If advice is needed or other things, I want to facilitate this in all kinds of ways, but this is really a bit more in the region than here in The Hague. Mr President, I was through Mr Van der Lee's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u184	Yeah? Then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will come back to the answer about that digital instrument. I was interested in the buildings, not the addresses. I think it's crucial, for the people there and also for everyone involved in the whole operation, that it is completely transparent which houses are sorry, I make the same mistake or which buildings need to be strengthened. Buildings are already registered in land registers. Even if the buildings need to be sold and there is something, you need to be transparent about it. I think that is very important, because that model needs to be validated. We need to know which buildings need to be strengthened that didn't come from the model. This must be transparent for all those involved. I think that we should be careful not to violate privacy. I can see that, but in this case there is a real social interest and I would like to call on you to look for an instrument that is as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u186	But now we're actually getting to something else. I myself stressed in my talks with the region that we should ensure that we also review the model outcomes by carrying out these tests, either on a sample basis or in any event. But whether it should be on a public website is another story. Quality assurance of risk assessment must be transparent, but I do not know whether this is the way to do it. May I suggest that I try to include quality assurance, but also transparency, in the approach and that we come to talk about it at a later date? Then Mr Van der Lee can come back to his idea, and I will see if I can put a better idea to it, or if there is nothing more to it than to take this idea of Mr Van der Lee on board, even though I do not see it as such. But that's what we're talking about. Mr. Chairman. I do need to protect the Mining Council, which is not here today, somewhat from the words of Mr Kops. 'Cause he's talking about "new numbers again." Indeed, the numbers the Mining Council comes with are different from those of the SodM and are also different from those of the NCG. Mr. Kops calls it "a mess." But look, I'm just asking for advice from the Mining Council to get the best new numbers. We get them, and they're different than they are now, so apparently it was a good idea to ask for advice. And we can be happy it's gonna be safer. I have not seen Mr Kops do that joy dance, but let me say: that is also up to him to consider joy dancing. But it is up to me to protect the Miners' Council from the word "mess," because I had just asked the Miners' Council to produce numbers. And that they are different from that of the other organizations: be it so, but that is the best answer to the question that the Empire had asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u187	First, the Minister decides to suspend the reinforcement of 1,588 homes because he would like to await, if necessary, an opinion from indeed that Mining Council. Then the conclusion is: well, a lot of homes are also just safe, but we continue to strengthen, because we have been promised. And indeed, I fully agree: promise is promised. But what the hell was the point of suspending that reinforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u188	The Mining Council has absolutely not said "promise is promised." And neither did the region and I. We have said that this should be well discussed from the point of view of begotten expectations. The region and I felt that it was best to take over that whole and let it go on, but the situation is really different from when we went on straightaway. Here you can offer people informed a choice. No, it's not necessarily necessary to strengthen all those houses. That means people have a choice. And you also have an important responsibility in thinking about the timing of these homes. And that is really different; that is because of the advice of the Mining Council. That is a useful advice and we are going to proceed with it. It's not like it's business as usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u189	So it is first promised to strengthen the houses. Then that agreement will not be fulfilled: we will suspend the reinforcements. And now the Minister comes up with the argument: yes, because then people have a choice. So first you take away something you promised them, and then you say: they have a choice this way. I'm sorry, Minister, but I really don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u190	What these people were promised wasn't a new home or a backup. What these people were promised was an advice in April. I called on those people to postpone that for three months, to get new insights into the reinforcement operation. That advice is not light advice. It's about security in the area, and we weren't securing it at the time! And now we know how to do it. That is an extremely important thing. And I did ask these people for more patience for that unique moment. Now we have said: no, we have not made a commitment, but we have raised expectations, so we are going to give them the choice to continue. Yes, and that's what I stand for, and that's what I agreed with the region. Then Mr Kops says: everything must be paid by the NAM: damage is damage. Whether he means the 1,588-batch or the 1,581-batch is a bit unclear. However, a lot of things are mixed up here. Damage isn't the same as reinforcements. No, not all homes are unsafe. Of course, we must strive as much as possible not to flatten houses that are not unsafe, unless there is a reason to strengthen them with whatever it takes. This is a remark which I cannot quite bring home from Mr Kops. How we can guarantee that there is enough money at the NAM for the reinforcement is a debate that we are having next. I'll get back to you then. I have already told Mr Bishop that I am really going to try not to be stubborn to the best soil experts and earthquake specialists in the Netherlands by kicking their advice in the face. If there is uncertainty, we need to find a way to provide people with security on the basis, for example, of an additional test. That is exactly what I have agreed with the region. I don't have an answer to his question as to why those 2,000 houses weren't in the batches. That did come through during the technical session. Other approaches have been used, but that's something I'm aware of. It's up to the experts to explain how they did it. I really believe that we should not allow the cabinet to give independent judgements, apart from experts, on which houses are safe. Then it's gonna be a mess. Then I have also dealt with Mrs Yeşilgöz's questions and I am through this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u191	Maybe one more question about finishing the damage. At some point the Minister was quite well done with that and I missed my moment for a moment. I'm gonna grab it now. A number of people didn't agree with the NAM. They'll be in the process with the arbitrator. Can those cases be dealt with by the arbitrator at a reasonable time? Can the Minister see if there's room for acceleration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u192	I don't know the arbiter's handling rate. I do not have any actual information on this, because that is, of course, also a point. I'll see if there are any.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u193	I have another question about who is going to finance the reinforcements that have not been necessarily advised. You can keep a whole legal Anglo-Saxon argument that those companies are not obliged to do so. On the other hand, all these discussions are directly related to earthquakes, otherwise we would not have had those reinforcement discussions. So you can argue very well why Shell and Exxon or the NAM should stand for that. Is it really true that the Empire is taking on those costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u194	I just explained that there's a lot of wallets in there. I have further explained that the NAM also contributes to the homes that are safe. We have just discussed this in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u195	But I'm not that happy about that. Especially for housing corporations, for tenants. This does not apply to buyers, but tenants have to contribute, because ultimately the tenant has to pay what the housing corporation owns. In view of the commitments made by the Minister, which I do not agree with, because the State's contribution is already falling and the State's contribution is already increasing, I say that we should do so entirely on behalf of the NAM, then they also pay some. Why wasn't that appointment made like this? Isn't that reasonable after all the misery the NAM, Exxon and Shell Groningen have done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u196	In this connection, I drew attention to the Mining Council's opinion and the explanations given by Mr Verdaas. He has said that it may be reasonable in cases to ask for contributions from corporations, in those cases where, in the not too long term, efforts would have been needed from them to maintain their assets on value and quality. That must be taken into account, and we must do so in a proper way. It's not like the corporation automatically takes the fall for things that wouldn't otherwise have been necessary. That too must be considered in reasonable terms. That appeal to reasonableness and cooperation from everyone has been well heard by the region and I in the presentation of the Mining Council. We did something with that on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u197	Mr President, thank you very much for allowing me to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u198	No, it's the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u199	I've got to pick him right. I note that the Minister still has very few answers to the questions that are very much alive about what is going on with the reinforcements, because no one knows where he is now. It makes little sense to waste my last question on this, because you do not give a lot of answers. I'm gonna do it one more time on those old damages, because it's really getting to my heart how bad that is for people. You've been talking about that investigation. I know you don't want to join my option for a general's pardon. If your research shows that it really didn't go well in cases, are you willing to give people who have accepted because they just can't, because they're up because they're murmuring, the choice to continue fighting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u200	This question is far ahead of an investigation that has just begun. Obviously, you're not doing an investigation for nothing. You want to learn something from that, and if you've learned something, you might want to do something with it. I'm not deaf to reasonable requests, but we're not halfway there yet. It's just started. Let us first see what comes out and then decide what actions are still needed. I really can't give you a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u201	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u202	Thank you, Mr President, for letting me have one more time. I am very worried about this, because these are really people who have been fighting for a long time and who now feel really inadequate and give up. Would you at least undertake to send the research assignment to us? I'm very curious to know what kind of research you're going to do. You were talking about asking a limited number of people. I would like to know what it is like so that we can come back to it later if we are not satisfied. What exactly is this investigation? Who's doing it? How many people are involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u203	How many people are involved? Let me put it this way, we're doing a sample, its size is determined. The methods, how we're going to get the data are being discussed. There are also privacy aspects that need to be investigated. I have no idea how many people are doing that. We are now in the process of launching this research in order to be able to say in a reasonable manner whether we think that there has been too much cosmetic work or that there are other things that have not gone well, that the conversation was not productive or that people would have been put under pressure. Those are all things you want to figure out. But I'm not going to make predictions here about how many people are involved in the investigation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u204	No, the question was whether the Chamber could be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u205	I kind of formulated the research assignment. We want to know what the reasons are and we want to be able to get an impression of whether the reasonable reasons why these people have agreed or whether they are unreasonable grounds. We would therefore like to know whether it was in an appropriate way. These are the words of Mr Van der Lee, I believe; he knows by heart, I do not know whether the offer of the NAM was appropriate. That's what we want to know, and that's what we're doing right now, with people at the office, at the NAM and in the county.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u206	I had come forward for the same reason as Mrs Beckerman, who has just asked her question. So I have understood correctly from the answer that the Minister is going to investigate the old damage handling and the satisfaction of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u207	Yeah, based on a sample, we're gonna see if it happened properly in our opinion, or if there were any signs of it. Then we'll think about what the conclusions should be. But we're gonna check it out first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u208	Let me not pre-empt things too far, but does the Minister at least intend to make amends with these people who have not gone well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u209	I have, of course, called on the NAM to make up with these people and make a fair offer. That was the starting point. But don't let me get ahead of myself either. Let us first see if we can decide for ourselves whether we have actually succeeded. That's the first step. That's why we're doing the sample, with the county. We are also provided with data for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u210	And that's sufficiently independent? I imagine anyone who has said "no" is being interviewed anyway, because you want to know what the causes are. Then you might want to see if you can make a representative selection in the other group of 76. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u211	Well, if it's anyone... We're gonna have to do a sample. We haven't done 1,500 cases yet. Part of it's gonna make up its mind. There are 600 cases that have now gone to the arbitrator. We're gonna look at that in an appropriate way, but I can't record everyone being interviewed right now. We also need capacity for progress, including for the new damages cases. We are going to measure in an appropriate way and determine whether we believe that this has happened in an orderly manner. I'm not going to commit to the exact contours of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u212	One final comment on this. The word "appropriate" comes from the NAM. They believe that the offer is appropriate. Well, that's interpreted differently, let me put it this way. I think we want it to be generous, but it's perceived as harsh. The Minister is going to do this investigation because he wants to be able to make a judgment. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u213	Along with the CdK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u214	But I also want to know what the opinion of the residents themselves is. When that research is done, I expect that we will get it, but with insight into what the residents themselves think of what they are offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u215	That is quite clear by now, because of course we are looking at people who have agreed but had discontent about it. We are going to look at a number of cases of this and we are going to do that sample of people who have rejected it. So it's clear what they think: they don't like the offer. They want to see the arbitrator. That was clear. We're in the group that's disgruntled. We now want to be able to assess whether they are rightly dissatisfied, whether they have been enough to get through to these people, and whether an appropriate and generous offer has been made. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u216	Very briefly, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u217	I see this as a narrowing down again, because there are also people who have accepted an offer with the story'structural damage, that is reinforcement, that is not part of the damage settlement'. I want that group involved in this investigation, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u218	Yeah, but... 4,500 people accepted it. We can't do 4,500 interviews. We must focus on those people who have somehow, through Mrs Beckerman's blackbook or through all kinds of other channels, expressed their unsuited feelings of treatment. And we need to focus on the people who even think they shouldn't accept the offer. Let's take a look at that. Those are the cases you say there's something going on. This will enable us to see whether there are patterns to be identified or whether we say: over the years, people may have had expectations that are no longer justified. Maybe other systematic things in the process didn't go well. Let's just take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u220	It has to be done in a practical way, but it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u221	Thank you. I understand that there is a need for a short suspension before we move on to the second term. Is that right? 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna go straight ahead. No, they're asking for a short suspension. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u222	We will continue with the debate on the reinforcement operation and damage handling in Groningen. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is still a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty, I have to say. It is only in autumn that people who really are in an unsafe house will know where they are going. How they are informed is not yet fully known either. It is not until October that the talks on the Regional Fund will start. If you see how many applications are already in the public organisation and how little progress is being made, the PvdA Group is very concerned about this. Unfortunately, there is no question of clarity on 1 July. Mr President, I have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are Groningers who are uncertain about the safety of their homes;]] [[calls on the cabinet to allow any Groninger who is concerned about the security of the home to carry out a publicly funded inspection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Bishop, Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-504]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u224	In between the nose and lips, the PvdA says that on July 1st there was no clarity for the people in the 1588-batch, but there is actually. They can just get the backup old style. In the previous debate, it was promised that that clarity would come, if that were necessary, so there is that clarity. For the other people, in that 1581-batch, because I am looking at my own motion, there would be that clarity, but now that is denied, so I really do not understand that from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u225	If you're in Overschild, I don't know if Mrs. Mulder's been in touch there. The same goes for Ten Boer and Appingedam and Loppersum. They're allowed to engage in dialogue. Mrs Sazias has another motion on what that means, what we can do and what people can expect. So I do not think there is complete clarity. If Mrs Mulder says she is, I don't think she's telling the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u226	Finally, Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u227	I think Mr Nijboer is twisting my words and it is a bit of a pity that he does. I indicated in a motion last time that I wanted clarity for both batches and that clarity is now there. It is very unfortunate that Mr Nijboer always pretends that he is not and thereby increases the uncertainty. So he's a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u228	I don't really care about those batches. What interests me is the people who live there. There are now a thousand houses that are unsafe; they are more unsafe than the houses we talked about all the time. I just asked the Minister if he knows what they are. When do they get it? Do they get a letter or are people coming by? That leads to enormous uncertainty, doesn't it? Then you can't say: we all know exactly and everyone is sure when his house will be strengthened and what needs to be done? That's all I care about. It's not about who's in a batch and what's happening. It's about people being safe in their homes and knowing what's going to happen in their own home. People barely know what batch they're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u229	This is a second term. There have been a lot of debates on this. The debate began very well, but one way or another I notice that the emotions are again high. I appeal to all of you to conclude this debate in a dignified manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u230	Mr President, I would like to do nothing more than do that, but I do have a problem with Mr Nijboer suggesting that my motion is not being carried out, because she will be. Of course, there is still uncertainty for a lot of people. I am not saying that this is not the case with those 1,500 people, but as Mr Nijboer puts it in between, I do feel a little attacked, and I admit it quite frankly. It's good he'll notice. I also feel that this is not enough for people. These are the same people that Mr Nijboer and I stand up for here in the Chamber. I am so sorry that every time that line of attack is chosen instead of looking at how to meet each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u231	Mrs Mulder clearly feels addressed, but I have not taken the whole Mulder motion or any motion into my mouth. I just said that Groningers do not all have clarity and are in uncertainty. That's what I'm making a point of. July 1st, there would be clarity and there is no clarity. A lot of people don't know what they're up to. That's my point, and I'm gonna keep doing it. That has nothing to do with motions in the Chamber. I did not address Mrs Mulder personally either. He feels very touched, but that's not my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u232	Fine, that's what you said. No, Mrs. Mulder. You want to interrupt, but you've already been. Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u233	Mr Nijboer was not at the briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u234	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u235	The chairman of the Mines Council then said to all political parties: I understand that there may be confusion about the figures, but we are now very clear; sometimes I feel that some parties do not want to understand it. So let me convey that message, because I have a bit of a feeling that Mr Nijboer doesn't want to understand it right now. I would like to ask Mr Nijboer how he points out the Minister's answers. The Minister says that there is clarity on 1 July and that he has agreed very well with the region that it is necessary to carefully identify which addresses are to be provided so that this is carefully arranged. I would like to hear from Mr Nijboer what he thinks of these agreements between the region and the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u236	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u237	... and the care in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u238	First of all, I wasn't at the hearing. I am very sorry, but then we had the debate here on the Spring Note, in which I saw Minister Hoekstra on the deal with Shell and Exxon. You can only be in one place at a time. So that's why. If I hadn't, I'd have been there. Mr. Chairman. As far as the 1,000 people are concerned. I think you should go over there. I just heard the minister say people are getting a letter. I think that these people should be clear by next week or in two weeks' time. And I'm not okay with that. If you stop everything, if you keep waiting for everything, that uncertainty will take longer. It's gonna take more uncertainty, and Groningen's gonna be sick of it. I'm trying to stand up for that, and I'm not trying to pretend everything's going well. Things aren't going well in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u239	The people in the 1,588-batch all get a letter and that happens in two weeks. Now we find out exactly which addresses belong to the 1,500 unsafe buildings, of which 1,000 are not in any of the three batches. That has been agreed with the region so that very careful communication is made and those people know exactly what is happening. That's all gonna be sorted out this summer. So let's not confuse things. We've just had hours of debate, but we've also talked about exactly what's going on. It's complicated enough, but it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u240	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u241	I would like to go over it with Mr Nijboer if it remains confusing for him, but it is actually quite clear by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u242	Then take Ten Boer's point. A number of houses are in a so-called batch. I know that village well. I grew up there. A number of houses are undoubtedly with that 1,000. And there are also houses that may not be in there, but in which people have put up struts themselves because they still feel unsafe. It's really the question if they're part of it, when everyone can see that those things aren't safe. So there's been a huge unrest. We can talk here about batches and programs and about sisters and stuff, and we can do six courses and say "who gets a dialogue and who doesn't" and then think it's solved, but it really hasn't been solved in Groningen today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u243	I think Mr Nijboer is right to say that there is still uncertainty and unrest at individual level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u244	And that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u245	He's not gone until those people have had their conversation and know what's really gonna happen to their own house. I fully agree with Mr Nijboer. But I think the Minister has just explained why it is going to take a few weeks for the group of 1,000 addresses, until September. That is why the region has expressly asked for this, because then we are sure that we will go to these people with the right advice. How does Mr Nijboer assess the request made by the region and the agreement made by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u246	That you have to be careful, I get it. But if you say houses are unsafe and it has to be done immediately, I think this is going to take a long time. If you then intend to send a letter and not to have a conversation, perhaps the Minister would like to do so anyway, then I do not think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u247	We're getting there slowly. We therefore agree that it must be done as carefully as possible and that the unrest in people is not removed until they really know about their own home. I have just heard the Minister say in the first term that it is not just about letters, but also about entering into the conversation. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to stress that again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u248	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u249	Mr. Chairman. The coalition parties are trying to put me in the mouth that I have to agree that everything is going well, but I do not think it is going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u250	Good. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u251	I'll stick with that. Oh, Mr. Jetten wants to interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u252	I see you standing, Mrs. Agnes Mulder, but you've been there. Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u253	I regret, however, that Mr Nijboer ends with that scurvy, because I have really tried to get closer to each other with open questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u254	Good. Then you have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u255	I think we should try to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u256	............................................................................. I suggest you move on, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u257	I'm gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is continuing serious concern and concern among Groningers about the insecurity caused by gas extraction;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for the Research Council on Security to examine and report on the follow-up to its recommendations, following the 2015 investigation and reporting of 2017;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the re-examination of whether and to what extent its recommendations have been followed up by the Security Research Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-505]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I always prefer to talk about how things are going in the villages and about the people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u259	Thank you. I shall now go to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u260	Mr. Chairman. In my view, it is indeed a sad end to such a debate when the coalition parties really say that people now have clarity. It really is a very painful thing. We should all go into a village now and simply ask people: do you think it's clear? Then no one will agree. I have two motions. The first is about dealing with old damages. I think that's really sad. We have warned you so loudly beforehand: do not do it, Minister. We have tabled several motions here to say that the NAM cannot do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u261	I'd start the motions, or you'll run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u262	I know. We said that very clearly and you did it. You let the NAM handle those damages, and it's not going well. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas after years of struggle with the NAM, a significant proportion of those affected have been forced to do so;]] [[Considers that as a result many have accepted an offer from the NAM which is far too low given the damage suffered;]] [[believes that these people have been fighting for their rights for too long and deserve a safe home;]] [[Calls on the Government to proceed to a general pardon for anyone who has not accepted the bid and anyone who has accepted it but is dissatisfied, with the people being offered a reasonable and fair bid by the State before 1 September 2018;]] [[invites the government to recover these costs afterwards, according to the old distribution system, from the NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-506]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u263	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there remains a lack of clarity as to the responsibility for the financial coverage of the reinforcement operation;]] [[considers that the NAM should assume its responsibility here;]] [[considers that residents of the houses falling within groups 1588 and 1581 should be clarified;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen and/or improve these homes as soon as possible and to ensure that the wishes of the residents are guided;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the NAM assumes its share of the costs in accordance with the old key,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-507]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u265	I now turn to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u266	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that batch 1588 owners, who according to the latest insights are safe, may, due to the expectations generated, choose to have the reinforcement advice carried out;]] [[Whereas some of the properties in the 1581 batch have already received a reinforcement advice;]] [[invites the government to provide owners of properties from batch 1581 who have already received a reinforcement advice also with the possibility to have the reinforcement advice carried out, even if their home is safe according to the latest insights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Bishop, Mr Sazias and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-508]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u267	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in dealing with damages, the focus is on quantitative aspects such as the number of accepted offers and the duration of a damage;]] [[Considering that decent damages are also related to qualitative questions, such as the way people are treated and the extent to which residents perceive compensation as generous;]] [[Whereas understanding of the extent to which Groningers feel helped by the new injury protocol is important for the continuous improvement of damage handling;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the resolution of damages independently and periodically on quantitative and qualitative aspects and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-509]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u268	Mr. Chairman. I should like briefly to thank the Minister for his reply. I think he has been able to clarify a number of things in this debate. For D66 it is important that all unsafe houses are reinforced and that we do so as soon as possible. We also think it is important that homes or buildings that already have reinforcement advice can all have that advice carried out. And I would like to say to a number of my fellow Members: yes, of course all ambiguity and unrest will disappear only if people individually, at address level, know what is going to happen in front of their own house. But I do think we have been able to clarify the direction of the reinforcement operation for the large groups in the last week. And we have been able to make it clear that the reinforcement operation is simply being recaptured by the Empire and the region together, for a new perspective for Groningen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u269	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u270	Mr President, thank you. Let's start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether farm buildings above the Groningenveld are safe;]] [[Whereas these buildings, such as typical farm sheds, often go through long-term damage procedures;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether a separate programme is necessary for the inspection and strengthening of industrial buildings and the depiction of follow-up damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Bishop, Mr Sazias, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-510]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u271	Thank you to the Minister for his commitments today, for the clarity this week for the 1,588-batch and for the letter these people will receive within two weeks. It is good that there is also clarity for the inhabitants of the 1,581-batch, for which letters will be sent a little later at the request of the region. It is also a good thing that the inhabitants who are covered by the 1.581-batch and who already have an opinion on reinforcements are brought forward, as Mr Jetten has just pointed out in his motion. That's why I supported it. It is also important that there should be an independent investigation. As far as I am concerned, that should be as broad as possible; so not interviewing too tight a population, but preferably as broad as possible, because we really need clarity about what is going on. Mr. Chairman. I understand that today not everyone at the address level knows what they are doing and that this contributes to the feeling of uncertainty that people still have. I hope that we can take that away as soon as possible, together with the region. I hope that good, clear, clear agreements will be reached and that we will find the positive line upwards with each other, also by bringing down gas extraction further. That is, in the end, what we are fighting for here in Parliament. I hope for as many supporters as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u272	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We think it is very good that there will be an investigation into the damage handling of the old cases. I really hope it can be made up for with the people who have been shipped off with a wrong and too low bid. This is also part of restoring confidence. The dialogue we have talked about really needs to be conducted in an open and fair manner. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Mining Council stated in its opinion that, in the case of dwellings covered by the second stage, commitments made cannot be unilaterally terminated;]] [[Whereas the intention is to enter into a dialogue with these residents on the route to be followed;]] [[Whereas the Government has indicated that it will follow the advice of the Mining Council;]] [[Whereas equivalence is of great importance for the recovery of trust;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these dialogues are conducted in such a way that the residents concerned feel heard in an equivalent manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Nijboer, Mr Bisschop, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Kops and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-511]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is about the importance of the children in Groningen. We have heard in recent weeks that the interests of the children were not sufficiently targeted by the government. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the lack of care and facilities to protect children from the tensions and stress caused by natural gas extraction and reinforcement;]] [[noting that, according to the Kinderombudsman, children's interests in the Groningen gas extraction area are not sufficiently taken into account in decisions;]] [[calls on the government to pay more attention to children in the Groningen gas extraction area and their mental resilience,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Bishop, Mr Nijboer and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-512]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u275	Mr. Chairman. Last week, a lot of questions were answered, but it seemed that every answered question raised a new question. That makes, that actually calls, that begs for a parliamentary survey anyway. I'm afraid there's another way we can't get the bottom stone up. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas truth finding is essential in order to restore confidence for the Groningen people;]] [[Whereas it is essential for the House of Representatives to have an in-depth understanding of how the gas building has functioned since 1963, how it has dealt with the risks and safety of citizens, how political decision-making has taken place and what the influence and interests of private companies are;]] [[Whereas this understanding is necessary, inter alia, to take the appropriate measures for the future and to draw lessons from it for the future;]] [[Considers that a parliamentary survey should not result in delays in repairing or delaying the risk of earthquakes and mining damage;]] [[points out that a parliamentary survey on gas extraction in Groningen should be carried out;]] [[calls on the Bureau to submit further proposals on the design and form of the investigation in this calendar year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-513]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u276	However, the question to Mr Wassenberg. Does he not fear that all the focus is precisely on taking measures that are good for Groningen's gas extraction down, starting the reinforcement, damage handling et cetera, et cetera, etc. is going to hang this over the market and put the wrong focus?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u277	Okay, let's have a quick reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u278	That would be the case if the motion said that it should take place at a minute's notice. That is why the motion states that proposals should be made this calendar year. And this calendar year is almost six months away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u279	Thank you. We didn't know that. Then I will go to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers he has given. I believe that much has been clarified today. I would like to thank him for a number of commitments, for the investigation of the old damage and for the way in which the dialogue is conducted with the residents. I have two motions. Because of the limited time I'll file it now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Mining Council advises to allow residents within the P90 group for an inspection and risk analysis to determine whether safety standards are met;]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the Mining Council's recommendation, a re-examined approach for the purpose of speed is unlikely to contain a heavy individual inspection per home;]] [[whereas many people are in uncertainty about the safety of their homes and uncertainty needs to be removed as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the government to allow residents in the P90 group to establish, through an inspection and risk analysis using the NPER 9998:2018, whether safety standards are met and also to return to how residents who feel unsafe in their homes do not fall within this group in September, in consultation with the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Bisschop, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Sazias and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-514]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u281	The second motion is a little shorter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some 70 health care institutions have been inspected, but that there are still no concrete agreements on the strengthening of the buildings;]] [[calls on the Government to agree in the short term on the strengthening of health care institutions and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Bisschop, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-515]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more point about the investigation. I have expressed my wishes on this, but I would like to ask the Minister one more urgent question, namely whether he would like the Gasberaad to participate in the monitoring committee of this investigation. Then I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no scientific research has yet been carried out on the effects of the mining damage in Groningen on children;]] [[Whereas the Children's Ombudsman has also noted that there is insufficient attention to the impact of earthquakes on children;]] [[Whereas children also have to do with the material and intangible effects of the mining damage on themselves and the family of which they are part;]] [[Calls on the Government to instruct a scientific institute to independently examine the impact of mining damage on the well-being of children, such as the social-emotional well-being of children and possible influence on school performance;]] [[calls on the Government to also draw up possible legal opinions on this basis, to seriously consider them and to consider which of them can be implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to consider carefully the development and implementation of an area-based approach and a new perspective for the future for Groningen;]] [[Whereas it also provides national support for Groningen;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with regional directors, to consider whether it is appropriate to support from the Empire to develop territorial solutions and a new perspective that is sustainable, social and economical, for example through the WRR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Sazias and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-516]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-517]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u283	Thank you, Mr President. As an observer of Mr Stoffer, I thought it was a good debate and a good exchange of views, in my view unnecessary politicisation of the issues here and there. My experience is that everyone in this Chamber is looking for opportunities to tackle the problems that are manifest in Groningen as much as possible. Then you would indeed have a good basis for finding each other instead of catching each other's flies. Having said this, given my age, I am allowed to do so, because I am already the oldest here, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, due to earthquake damage and soil decline caused by gas extraction, agricultural holdings have to deal with leaking dungeons, drainage problems, sagging silos and other sector-specific problems;]] [[Whereas operators are regularly sent from the locker to the wall and are not recognised for damages, while the corresponding financial consequences are considerable;]] [[calls on the Government to pay greater attention to the problems of agricultural holdings resulting from the extraction of gas in the Groningenveld, for example by setting up a separate programme and organising regular consultations between representatives of agricultural holdings and relevant bodies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Stoffer, Mr Nijboer, Mr Sazias, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Jetten and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-518]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u284	In particular, for the sake of the President, I have ensured that there is an extremely balanced signature by men and women. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u285	Okay, thank you. Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas safety in Groningen is expressed in terms of safety standards of 10;]] [[whereas both the Mining Council and the SodM find that the expectation value is the correct measure to express risks;]] [[Considering that there are uncertainties in the model and that, due to these uncertainties, SodM argues that a temporary margin of uncertainty (P90) should be applied at the top of the forecast value;]] [[Whereas this margin of uncertainty is reviewed annually in the light of increasing knowledge and thus leads to a reduction of uncertainties;]] [[Whereas NAM must pay for the reinforcement at all times;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the bill for all houses reinforced on the basis of expectation value + uncertainty margin is paid by NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Bisschop, Mr Nijboer and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-519]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u287	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. When you look at how many motions have been tabled today with a lot of signatures from coalition to opposition, it also shows that we are finding each other better and that we are getting better and better together in Groningen, putting security at the centre and dealing very carefully with the fact that expectations have also been raised in people. I am extremely pleased that the region and the Minister are working together to see how we can proceed with this, how we can ensure that security is central and that people are carefully informed. Finally. Unfortunately, we have to talk about policies and batches and percentages here, but we do so so that we can then help the families, the households there. I believe that all of us are very well aware that this is about human lives and that this is precisely why we are trying to do sensible things with each other so that people can benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u288	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. The minister needs a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u289	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u290	Mr President, there are three questions first. Mr Jetten had asked in the first term what the message was to people who have now received a message from the Tax Administration. This is simply to claim as damage to the TCMG; in a single case with NAM, but then it is old damages and it will be another case. If there's a message coming from the IRS right now, it's almost certain, or probably a TCMG case. They know about that, too. There's a deal about that. Mrs Mulder also asked a very sensible question, but we are not getting there yet, because there are still questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u291	I'd answer that question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u292	Okay. Mrs Mulder asked: what is the deadline? In the current situation, 10% of the people end up with the arbitrator. 4,500 people disappear from the file and could have been with the arbitrator in part. So we just need to recount the count. A lot's happened. A lot of cases have disappeared and new cases have been added. We'll take stock of the situation. We won't know until after the summer. Mr Van der Lee asks whether we set up an advisory committee during the investigation and who is in it. We do not, because you have an advisory committee with advice or with a policy path. Then you have a guidance group. You can, you don't have to, but it's useful there. This is just about finding the truth: what's going on here? I have a commitment from the Gas Council that they too will supply me with cases that we can identify and approach. That is the role of the Gas Council, but we do not have an advisory committee here. This is about finding the truth. Then we have to figure out what to do with it. That's what I'm doing with the region again. The Gasberaad may also be involved, but at least I am doing this together with the region. So my answer is that it's not like that. Then I was ready for the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u293	Mrs Beckerman, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u294	It's about the Tax Administration hit. You said that if people get it in the future, they can go to the TCMG. Did you just say that? Because I don't understand anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u295	I was unclear. If people are now told that they do not receive a certain supplement, then it may be that these are new damages. Then it can be claimed at the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage in Groningen. If it is from before, then it can still be claimed by the NAM, because it is just part of the liability. It's something you deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u296	Is it clear now, Mrs. Beckerman? No? Then you may ask one question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u297	Yeah, but I've got more. I have also asked written questions about this which have not yet been answered. That just makes it complicated because we're going with recess for eight weeks. The question is, what about it? There are also people who have received this in compensation, for example. It runs through SNN. It's about the appreciation scheme. People don't know that and they get €4,000. They received €1,500 in taxation. They simply couldn't afford that. Can they still tell that to SNN? I have an example in my black book, so you can read it. Are you willing to help these people with this? You can read it on page 9, the case of Koos and Aly Prak. They're really in trouble because of this. These are people...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u298	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u299	Yeah, but I want to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u300	That's a completely different case. It is now becoming too much of a fiscal consultation hour. This is really another point. Shall I try to include this in the written procedure, if necessary artificial? It's really about something else. But I will try to include this question in that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u301	Yes. If you have asked written questions about this, written answers should also be provided, Mrs Beckerman. I shall continue with Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u302	I would also like to add this to the written answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u303	Yes, and also the page where Mrs Beckerman referred. I think it was page 29.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u304	Page 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u305	Page 9. There. Then it's in the Acts, too. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To be quite precise: if you miss out on supplements because you've been paid a claim for damages, is the loss actually a result damage and can you claim that result damage again at either the NAM or the temporary commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u307	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u308	Very nice. I think that reassures a lot of people in Groningen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u309	Then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u310	Thank you. I do not understand any advisory committee, but can you at least undertake to involve the Gasberaad in the design of the investigation and not just in the delivery of cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u311	The Commissioner and I have already spoken to them and there is further contact, not just on the provision of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u312	Good. Then you'll proceed to the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u313	Yes, I'm going to the motions. The motion in part No. 504. Mr Nijboer and others ask that every Groningen be given an opportunity. No, that's too much for me. The Mining Council's opinion is clear on that. Anyone in that intergroup should be given the opportunity to take a test. There goes the motion in part no. 514 over. But "everyone" Groninger is too rude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u314	People aren't going to have their house inspected for fun. This is about people who are worried about their safety. It was precisely from the Mining Council that that was the case throughout the province. That's not just close to Loppersum, but it's spread everywhere. I'd still like some kind of guarantee there, because of people's sense of security. Because of the ambiguity there is, is it not a very crazy request to the government if people do not feel safe to offer the opportunity to do that inspection? I really don't expect hundreds of Groningers to want that very much, but there are a lot of people who are very worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u315	I am not going to bring a motion to my attention on this one-sided basis until I have spoken to the region about the implementation of the Mining Council's opinion. I can, however, give Mr Nijboer the opportunity to hold her back and come back to the discussion of the approach. But I have arrangements with the region to find out together. It's all got to be possible. There are between 6,000 and 7,000 people in the remaining group who according to the Mining Council recommendation should have this right, but there are about 200,000 houses in the province of Groningen. So that's a very different order of magnitude. Before we do something so easy after noon, I'm really gonna talk to the region about it. I would therefore advise her, unless Mr Nijboer is prepared to apprehend her. Then we can talk about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u316	I'm not gonna hold her, Mr. Chairman. I really think that people should be given this assurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u317	Good. Then the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u318	Then the second motion, the motion in part No. 505. I'm gonna have to dissuade them, too. I have now asked for a Mining Council opinion, from the best specialists in the Netherlands. I'm gonna work on that, and I still have to work out how to do it. That's complicated enough. Then the motion to part No. 506. We spoke of a general's pardon. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. That is what the debate has been about before. The motion in part No. 507 by Mrs Beckerman asks that we proceed as quickly as possible. That's exactly what I'm investigating with the region. There are also options in that. That approach is known in September and not now. We still need to be able to make these assessments, including with the region. The question of order is, of course, on the agenda. By the way, when it comes to security-based reinforcement, the NAM always has to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u319	What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u320	I dissuade the motion with that. Then the motion to part No. 508. It's about the people from the batch after this, who have already received a reinforcement advice. It is a very limited number, but I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. The motion in part No. Mr Jetten and others asked for a periodic review of the settlement of damages. That makes sense. I'll leave that motion to the Court's judgment. Then there is a motion by Mrs Mulder, the motion in part No. 510, which asks to see if a separate programme is needed. That seems to me to be a relevant question. I'll leave this motion judgment room. Mrs Sazias wants an equal dialogue. It's impossible to be against that. It's a nice call. I leave the judgment on this motion, the motion in part No. 511, to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 512 calls for more attention to children. I shall leave Mr Wassenberg's ruling on that motion to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 513 I don't think I have to say anything. The motion in part No. 514 is in line with the advice of the Mining Council when it comes to the possibility of an inspection. However, I would like to ask the applicant, Mrs Dik-Faber, whether, in cooperation with the region, I can possibly reach a test with a shorter lead time or a more sensible design. We are thinking at the table of a light test which gives people certainty, which explains, but which should not become an administrative monstrum. So I'd like to have that space, but with that space, I'll leave the motion to the House's judgment. Without that space, I'm gonna worry a lot about it, because then I'm gonna get in trouble with my appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u321	I took a quick look at my co-subscribers. There are a lot of them, so I couldn't look at them all, but I think we were all nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u322	Okay. And if that's the way it's gonna be, it's gonna be exactly the way it is, but we just have to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u323	The motion in part No. 515.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u324	In the motion in part No. 515 the government is invited to make short-term agreements on the strengthening of health care institutions. I shall leave Mrs Dik-Faber's motion to the House's judgement. In his motion, Mr Van der Lee asks for item No. 516 the government to draw up possible legal opinions. I shall also leave that motion to the House's discretion. In his motion in part No. 517 Mr Van der Lee asked the government, in consultation with regional directors, to consider whether it was appropriate to provide support. That's different from the question he asked me. I think that 'considering or' in consultation with regional directors is an appeal that I fully understand. I'll leave that to the Court's judgment. The Bishop's motion in part No. 518 is about farmers. I shall also leave that motion to the House's judgement. The last motion, in part No. 519, by Mrs Yeşilgöz, is about that intermediate group. Of this, it is important to use security liability. I support this motion and leave it to the Court to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u325	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u326	We shall vote on the motions tabled tonight, or tonight. I thank the MPs and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u327	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-44.u328	Yes, the Minister! I'm still thinking about the old situation. The Minister; sure. Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. We'll continue the debate on the Gas Act after the suspension.
