ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	We shall begin by saying goodbye to Mr Roemer from the SP Group. Mr Roemer has written a farewell letter. I'm gonna read it to you now. Dear President, dear Khadija, I would like to inform you that I have decided to terminate my membership of the House of Representatives on 18 January 2018. After more than 11 years, of which almost eight years as group chairman and party leader, my part of the mission is over and I hand over the stick. Sometimes people ask me why I became politically active some 38 years ago, and then I always bring up a bike rack in Boxmeer. A bike rack that stood by a swimming pool across the road, making children always have to cross the road. That's dangerous. The city didn't want to move the thing, there was no money for it, and so we did it with a few people but ourselves. In the dark, we dug out the bitch and moved it. To everyone's satisfaction. 38 years later, I'm proud that we're still honoring that mentality. Don't talk. Don't talk. Don't talk. Don't look away, just perform. That is how the SP has grown and I have been able to lead my group over the past few years. In general, SPs feel more representative than MPs. I'm sure that goes for me, too. I cherish my most beautiful memories of the many hundreds of visits and appointments in the country and of the thousands of people I met during those visits. I remember the actions we organized for the workers in social workshops. People who fought for solidity, respect and a normal salary. The people of home care who occupied city halls in the Achterhoek, who got on their feet in Haarlem. The actions of the cleaners at Utrecht CS, who demonstrated for more respect. The people who fight for equal opportunities and against discrimination and racism. Tenants in many cities in our country who fight for better maintenance or fight against the demolition of their homes, such as the Jerusalem district in Amersfoort, which I have been able to support several times and where they have also achieved successes. The living room conversations with Groningers who are all done with it and rightly demand that there be a decent and fair damage settlement and that they want gas extraction to go down quickly and sharply. It's these people who have given me the inspiration to keep standing up for people who don't come in on their own. And that we never forget who we do this important work for. Not for ourselves, not for our party, but for the people we represent and who count on us. After eleven years of parliamentary membership and almost eight years of leadership of the SP, it is now time. Mr. Roemer, I hear you say it! It's time for a new batch to take over. A generation I've seen growing up and breaking through over the years. I was allowed to lead at a time when much has happened. The SP has become a party that became active among the people in more and more places. The next big step was for me to show that we can drive. In the big cities, in the countryside and in the provinces, we make a difference now. I'm very proud of that. Here we show what the SP has in the house. We're cheeky and sometimes we have a big mouth. But we are not afraid to put our own hands up where we can. It is no secret that I would have liked to have seen the SP in a new government after the administrative responsibility in municipalities and provinces. That didn't work out now. Not now, I would like to make that quite clear. 'Cause our time is coming, watch me. I'm sure gonna miss it all. Like the many times we have had nice and firm debates in this Chamber, along with the people in the public gallery. I am grateful and proud to leave the House of Representatives today. Thank you and all my colleagues in the Chamber, thank you to the journalists who are here late at times. Thank you to my fantastic group for that long-standing support. And especially thank you very much to all of you who make it possible for us to do our work here every day. From the Registry to security, from catering to messengers, all support services. You're all the lubricating oil in the engine called the House of Representatives. Thank you very much, and you are all well. Emile Roemer
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Now it's time for a few words from my side. Dear Mr. Roemer, dear Emile, As a raised Brabander and a born Rotterdammer, you combine the best of these two worlds. You have humor, you like working together and you're decisive. And the motto "stronger by struggle" also fits you like a coat. Those qualities took you as MP and group chairman, for the past eleven years in the House of Representatives. And I like to use them as a guide to look back on that period. The big one, you hear him coming... The great friendly giant was sometimes called you. Your meekness and sense of humor made you popular with the colleagues: in the tweets that MPs took out after you announced your departure, the words "kind," "collegial" and "happy." I quote, "A knuckle with humor." In public debates, you compared the recovering Dutch economy after the crisis with a small plant that had to be treated with care. You said: "But then the Prime Minister comes with an enorme pruning shear." With you as a new foreman, the SP could finally deal with its persistent image as a grumpy opponent. The SP's programme of principle states: "Our development is above all the product of people's cooperation with other people." That's what you put into practice as a politician yourself. In Boxmeer, you already created a cultural change by making all the political differences right through the college that the residents would like the most. In the Chamber you looked for it mainly in cooperation on the left, neglecting the traditional blood groups. Members of the political groups who wanted to conclude occasional coalitions with right-wing parties got all the space you could. I've been told you didn't hesitate to take on your colleagues during group weekends under the guise of "SP-Eigen-Intelligie." You didn't spare yourself, either. At least they got all the space, as long as it brought the good thing forward. For you, the political handicraft, whereby you close coalitions to the short job, is therefore not contrary to high-tuned long-term ideals. 'Cause you always work from the base. Close to the people for whom you want to actually mean something and make your solidarity tangible. It's not words, it's deeds. During your period in the Chamber, this led, among other things, to the initiative law that allows for the handling of the acquisition fraud, the strengthening of the position of the whistleblowers and the famous Roemer norm. The Chamber was also confronted with this. I can tell you we're under the Roemer norm. These are all milestones that have been achieved under your guidance. Your humour, your friendly attitude, constructivity and strength were used to achieve something real. For behind the great friendly giant is an extremely driven man who fights day and night for a better and more just society, in which there is a place for everyone. The holy fire that keeps you burning as the son of a resistance fighter. That's what you're in politics for. You want to make a difference your way. You're also popular with the people in the country. You were already named by the Dutch people in 2011 as the most reliable politician. And at the last election, that image was re-confirmed. "Emile Roemer understands best what's going on around me," people said in the polls. They don't just like buying a used car from you. With you, they'd rather have a glass of wine than with someone else in the room. In an interview from 2015 with Ronald Koeman, in the middle of De Kuip, you called yourself a peak that is also captain. But now you have chosen the position that you also take as a player of your own football club in Sambeek, that of wing player. "I'm making way for a new batch," you said at your farewell. Government participation, a dream, you failed. But the SP has proven to be able to control at any level under your command. And your group is full of strength. You actually put the ball in front of the goal. Now it's up to others to shoot him in. You're leaving the House of Representatives today. But I am convinced that the red fire in you will continue to burn and that the people in the land will continue to hear from you. I want to thank you so much for everything you've meant for the Chamber but also for the SP. Take care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	I think you're getting 150 kisses.
