ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on nuclear safety. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Eight speakers have come forward. I suggest two interruptions, with an interruption in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party, who has requested this debate. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this year, the Safety Research Council published its report Collaborating on nuclear safety. And what did the government do with that? We'll read it at the same research council. He found the State Secretary's reactions to the recommendations "destructive." There is talk of "transparent intentions without becoming concrete" and "the reactions show no sense of urgency for the problem." About that reaction, a seven-page letter of intent, the government did three months. What is the value of an OVV advice for the State Secretary if it is handled so carelessly? Mr. Chairman. What are the chances of a nuclear disaster? The cliché is: the risk of a nuclear disaster is low, but when it happens it's all very terrible. But here it's a little bit different. Indeed, in modern nuclear power plants, the risk of a nuclear accident is not very great. But what about the Belgian scrap plants, which are held together with tape, hobby glue and paper clips? We see that the incidents are following each other more and more quickly. The list of defects is very long. We see structural flaws, delayed maintenance, human errors and errors in surveillance. A short anthology, where I limit myself to the last five months. Last May: reactor vessel Target 1 leaks radioactive water. Restart is delayed for two months and later for another six months. Also in May: problems in Objective 2. The cooling water system shall be replaced. It's been shut down till the end of the year. July this year: a construction error in Tihange 3. Metal plates are likely to have been shifted during the landfill of concrete. Also in July: the drawings of Tihange 3 are gone. Were they stolen? Did they just lose it? Amateurism? No one knows. And this month: concrete rot in the nuclear reactors Target 4 and Tihange 2. The reported incidents are increasingly serious and recovery takes longer. Next week six of the seven reactors in Belgium will be closed for various reasons: for maintenance and construction errors due to aging. There seems to be complete chaos. Mr. Chairman. We can't keep saying it's just incidents. We cannot keep saying: the FANC is on top of it. This is incident policy: intervention in every incident, even if it happens six times in five months. Something's structurally wrong here. These are signs of decay. These are clear signs that Tihange and Goal are on their last legs. As a representative of the people, including Limburgers, Brabanders and Zeeuwen, who are in the line of fire, I ask the Secretary of State to do everything in his power, to use all of her influence to convince her colleague in Belgium that these nuclear power stations should be permanently closed as soon as possible before it is too late. I know it's not our nuclear power stations, but it's our lives. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has the possibility of doing so in the very short term. Due to the failing nuclear power plants in Belgium there is a structural shortage of electricity. I'd better stop, because I see there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	There is indeed an interruption by Mr Van Aalst. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	I'm just trying to see if we're talking about the same debate today and the same nuclear power stations. Can Mr Wassenberg of the Party for Animals tell me how often people in the Netherlands or Belgium have been in danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	I don't have that information. All I can say is that there are more and more incidents and those incidents are becoming more and more serious. The incidents are also considered more serious. We have already talked about INES 1 and INES 2, so the incidents are getting more serious. So what you are seeing at the moment is that it is so bad with those nuclear power plants that should have been closed by now, according to the original plans, that six of the seven nuclear reactors should be closed by next week, because it is irresponsible to keep them open. The FANC, the nuclear watchdog, has also said in so many words that it cannot guarantee safety if they go crazy. That's why the FANC can shut them down. So the question of how concrete the threat is, I can't answer. The question I can answer is: is it serious? Well, if six of the seven nuclear reactors are closed, I think you can say it's pretty serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	I think that's why we have such a fantastic INES scale. That indeed gives to INES 1, INES 2. We even added 0, because otherwise it wouldn't be within reach. INES 2 means: no danger to residents. Yeah, there's been a lot of incidents, but I think we have a good security system. There's only one thing to do, and this security system is working, and it's all locked up. Then you can scare everyone here, but then you better say "God, how nice that we have such a nice safety system here, and especially in the Netherlands"? I mean, you came with me to Borssele. You've been to Petten, too. We've done a great job together. Something only has to happen and we're right on top of it. It would be a good thing if you were a little more enthusiastic about those people who work very hard there for our security and for our energy supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	I think Mr Van Aalst has either not listened properly or misunderstood my story. What I am saying is that it is a good thing that the FANC is on top of it, but that it is incident policy and that it is always taped afterwards. In retrospect, the FANC can say: this is so irresponsible, this has to be closed down. What I'm afraid of is that you can see that these incidents are stacking up and that things are gonna go wrong right away. If you have a car and that car has to go to the garage six times in three weeks and each time for a more serious defect, then waiting for it to really lead to a major accident. I don't want to take that risk with those nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	I would very much like to ask Mr Wassenberg: does he still have faith in the FANC, or not at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	I have faith in the FANC. In case of incidents, they can intervene. I'm glad the FANC also has the opportunity to shut things down. What I'm saying is it's always after. The FANC can also see at some point: the situation is unsafe, the situation needs to be repaired, repaired. Sometimes it takes months and months and months. But what I see is that the FANC needs to intervene more and more often. I don't want to be late when it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you. Mr von Martels, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u12	I understand that, of course. We should not intervene if it is too late, of course not. But I have a lot of faith in the FANC. I also believe that we should not sit in the chair of the institution that we ourselves have created; in this case, of course, the Belgian Parliament has done so. The FANC is an organization that should advise us on whether or not safety is at stake. So far, they still conclude that this is not the case. So the question is actually: do you share my opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u13	What I can answer is that the FANC is on top of it. But the FANC is not a political organization. The FANC is about incidents. The FANC can intervene in the event of an incident. At the time when we politicians, in the Netherlands or in Belgium, say 'the incidents follow each other so quickly, there is a need to intervene'. The FANC will not say that, because those are political statements. We're politicians here. We are here to see how we interpret these signals. I interpret them as follows. There are too many signs that things are going wrong. I want to avoid that very big mistake, that nuclear disaster, whatever you want to call it. So that the FANC is on top of it is very good, but the FANC can and will not make the decision to advise: close the whole toko. That is what we must do as politicians, in the Netherlands and in Belgium. I'm moving on. The Belgian Energy Minister asked this week in a press conference whether neighbouring countries could help with additional power capacity if necessary, because so many reactors have been shut down in Belgium. My question is: is the Netherlands going to offer this helping hand and, if so, what conditions does the government impose? Is this helping hand accompanied by an urgent appeal to close those nuclear power plants as quickly as possible and to make serious work of sustainable alternatives such as wind and sun? Does Belgium have a plan B? Finally, Mr President. Concerns about scrap power stations are shared in Germany and Luxembourg. I ask the Secretary of State to discuss with her colleagues in Germany and Luxembourg what else is possible to persuade Belgium to close the nuclear power stations soon, because it is high time for Belgium too to take the energy transition seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Time and again there are reports of incidents at Tihange and Doel. Mr Wassenberg has already mentioned them: concrete rot, leakages, defects, cracks. There are isolated incidents, but they are so numerous that we are really very concerned. Time and again the reaction is: nothing is wrong. This debate was requested in February. Looking back on the period between February and now we see that there have been many more incidents. The problems have accumulated and in October only one of the seven plants can operate. This can't go on. A fast core exit is needed. The Chamber has already spoken in favour of this. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what happens now; what does she do? Then there's security in our border region. Already in May 2016, the Secretary of State himself, in another role of course, tabled a motion in which she wondered whether the Netherlands was sufficiently prepared for a nuclear disaster. Now, years later, the Security Research Council is also very critical. They say in official language: there is no harmonisation in relation to crisis communication. What is the Secretary of State going to do in concrete terms? Because the reaction is very vague. The OVV advises to better prepare jointly; the decision-making should be optimal in the event of a crisis. Those are strict recommendations that I really think we should follow, because in the event of a disaster many Dutch people can be affected. In November, only Target 3 will run. Six out of seven reactors will be closed by then. The maintenance of many of the junk reactors takes longer than thought. Belgium is now seriously considering a major power shortage. That will affect many Belgian households. Very painful in this case is that they stopped their strategic reserves last year. They were no longer necessary. They had them last winter, they don't have them now. What does this mean for Belgian consumers and Belgian companies? The price per megakilowattuur doubled in one week. There were peaks with a price of €400. A lot of Belgians are worried about their energy bill. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u16	That's right. There is an interruption by Mr Ziengs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u17	I had the impression for a moment that I had ended up in the Belgian Parliament, because I think there are all sorts of issues that we may be concerned about at home in the bank, but in this Parliament it is customary to discuss matters that concern us here in the country. What is happening outside is fine, but when it comes to financial effects, I do not think that we need to discuss the effects for Belgium on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u18	Well, because that's what I came up with: I think we should. Belgium has asked the Netherlands for help. I wanted to ask the Secretary of State what it looks like and what conditions it lays down. But in response to Mr Ziengs: if something becomes a scarce commodity, such as electricity, then the price goes up. We are now seeing this happening in Belgium. Suppose the Netherlands supplies part of its electricity to Belgium, what does that mean for the Dutch price? So I quoted the example of Belgium. Belgium has now asked us for help. I wonder what that will mean for Dutch electricity prices. Is that enough answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u19	I think it's a very nice move, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mrs Beckerman, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u21	That was basically non-movement. I was a bit relying on the economic laws, as the VVD naturally likes to paint them. If something is a scarce commodity, it becomes more expensive. What is this going to mean for Dutch households who are already seeing their energy bills rise like this? And what will the Secretary of State do with the request from Belgium for help? What demands does she make of that? I agree with Mr Wassenberg's questions. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to finish. I think that Belgium is now also seeing... In the meantime, the Minister has stated that she wants to see if she can sue Electrabel. The odds of that seem to be quite small, but more and more often there is the debate on the question: did it make any sense to make profits private while the burdens are public? Everyone is going to be hit here now, while not everyone has been able to benefit from the beautiful profits Electrabel has made with those nuclear reactors. As far as I am concerned, this is also a question in the Netherlands: shouldn't energy be ours again, so that we can also decide in our Parliament how to shape our power supply? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, there are worrying signals from Belgium. And yes, we are here in the Dutch Parliament, but it is a matter of great concern for a lot of Dutch people. This time it's concrete rot. Meanwhile, Tihange 2 and Target 3 are just on, despite the cracks. It has been clear for GroenLinks for a long time: we really shouldn't want this. The nuclear power stations in Belgium must be shut down as soon as possible. Now Belgium has planned a core trip for 2025. That's way too late, but at least it's a goal. However, I can predict to the Secretary of State that this goal will not be achieved. Belgium is completely dependent on nuclear energy. All the faults in the Belgian nuclear power stations mean that at present only two out of seven nuclear reactors are running, and Belgium has a major problem. The Belgian Minister for Energy, who has to keep all the lights on, is in the hair. This shows once again how unreliable nuclear energy is and how difficult it will be for Belgium to complete that nuclear exit. That's what we're worried about. The Belgian long-term plans for renewable energy are not good enough to convince my group that this is going to work. In short, Belgium must act like a madman to generate enough sustainable electricity, so that this nuclear trip becomes possible. What does the Secretary of State think about this? And how can the Netherlands help with this? Maybe there are creative ways to help Belgium. Is the cabinet working on this? Is this a direction of thought that's being followed? And in what ways does the Netherlands insist on the rapid closure of Belgian nuclear power plants? The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants a really firm finger on that pulse. Is it an idea, for example, to talk to the Belgian Minister every year about the progress of the core exit, and thus put pressure on the Belgian Government to achieve a rapid core exit? Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this year, the Security Research Council published a report on cooperation in the border region around nuclear crises. The Research Council came up with many sensible recommendations. The Secretary of State also promised in a letter to the Research Council that these recommendations would be followed. What's the status of that follow-up? How's it going? The Secretary of State would work with, among other things, better crisis decision-making, better information in the 20 km zone and harmonisation of crisis communication. How's that going? How's it going? Then we go to the Netherlands, because here too we have an elderly nuclear power plant, which generates electricity with the aid of subsidies. The nuclear power plant operator, EPZ, supplies the energy to PZEM, and PZEM is 100% of the province of Zeeland and the Zeeland municipalities. Now the fixed price that has ever been agreed is higher than the current market price. So PZEM loses money on every kilowatt hour. So we're subsidising the power of the nuclear power plant. Is this a story? Or can the Secretary of State assure me that the Zeeland co-governments are not burning up the money that was made selling parts of DELTA at the nuclear power station? Does the Secretary of State expect PZEM to make a profit on the Borssele power soon? Finally, on nuclear safety in the Netherlands: is Borssele resistant to the impact of a large aircraft? What's the status of the investigation on this? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that Borssele shouldn't be running until it's been found resistant to plane crashes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u24	I think you came to the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u25	Yes, I'm at the end of my speech and I have 33 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u26	I'm getting a little tired of this. There is a very nice work visit organized in Borssele. That's what this literal question was about. So I will answer the question to the Secretary of State: there is no problem, there is no aircraft in it, it is neat and well-protected and it is really top-notch with the safety of our nuclear power stations. Then you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u27	I do not hear a question in that, but perhaps Mrs Kröger would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think it is just very important that we really know that a nuclear power plant is Fukushimaproof and complies with safety requirements in all respects. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State. She may refer to the spokesperson of the PVV in the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u29	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr. Chairman. As far as D66 is concerned, nuclear energy does not play a long-term role in our energy supply. Nuclear power stations are safer than they used to be, and the risks of failure are small at the moment, but 100% safe does not exist and the consequences if they fail are inconceivable. Residents, municipalities and provinces in the border region have very understandable concerns about the state and news of nuclear power plant failures, but there are now good sustainable alternatives to nuclear power. Think of solar parks, wind farms and the development of geothermal or blue energy, as it is so beautifully called. There are sustainable alternatives left, I would say. This debate has been requested on the OVV report on cross-border cooperation on nuclear power plants and on reports on Belgian nuclear power plants. I would therefore like to speak today about the Belgian nuclear power stations. Malfunctions and shutdowns cause concern among residents around the nuclear power plants. Every time there's news about one of the seven reactors, the image of a nuclear power plant that's been patched up and just enough is confirmed. I understand that picture, but the OVV also states that the international supervisory system is well-designed. I also sincerely believe that nuclear power plants have become safer rather than more unsafe, but that is not the picture that exists. That's why communication needs to be in order. Society has changed. People want to know the seam of the stocking. Our communication needs to fit in with that. The second thing we can do is to encourage and support the Belgian core trip. The Belgians themselves have decided to shut down their reactors long before one of ours. That is a step that we welcome. A schedule can be consulted on the FANC website. The legal closure of Objective 3 is scheduled for 1 October 2022, but we also hear the discussions in Belgium. Does the Secretary of State know if this date and the other dates in that schedule are still valid? Is Belgium really going to get rid of nuclear energy in this period? The news reports that parts of Belgium will be powerless in November because of the shutdown of the reactors now worry us. At present, half of Belgium is still dependent on nuclear energy. The final closure of the power stations therefore has a major impact on the Belgian electricity supply. Are the Belgians going to be able to do this and are they really going to be able to do this? Belgium is also a weak link in the European energy network at the moment. That, too, makes it difficult to get rid of nuclear energy. That is why it is important that we think constructively about solutions rather than just pleading for closure. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. How can Europe play a role in bringing Belgium closer to the European energy network? How can we ensure that Belgium is connected to other, preferably renewable energy networks? To what extent can the Benelux or the Benelux Parliament play a role in cooperation and in the development of nuclear power decommissioning plans in Belgium? How can the Netherlands contribute to making Belgium less dependent on nuclear energy? Is it possible, for example, to weigh up Dutch energy networks, so that Belgium can reduce more wind flow from us? How does the Secretary of State view the idea of increasing the interconnectivity of the energy network by connecting the Borsselewindparks with the region of Antwerp? How can we ensure that Belgian nuclear emissions become as sustainable as possible? Are you prepared to discuss this with the Minister of EZK? As I said, nuclear power does not have the future, not in Belgium, not in the Netherlands. So let's help each other make that core trip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The committee recently visited the Borssele nuclear power plant, after we visited the nuclear reactor in Petten earlier this year. Both times the same story came up. The experts agree that nuclear energy is safely generated in the Netherlands. Compared to us, the Belgians are not at all happy. Six of the seven nuclear power plants are closed due to maintenance and repair work in Doel and Tihange. This cost a lot of money and has also stirred up the fear that there could be an energy shortage in November. In the meantime, the Belgian Minister has announced that he will fill this deficit with gas plants as much as possible. As a precautionary measure, she also made contact with the Netherlands, among other things, in order to guarantee the supply of energy in November via interconnectivity. Safety is a priority for our nuclear power plants. And you should. In order to avoid problems, there is a comprehensive control system that is always safe. International agreements have been made on this and Belgium has to abide by it. In addition, they are constantly updated and, where possible, strengthened. Problems are classified according to the INES scale, which sets seven significant levels. INES 0 includes computer failures and misplaced objects. Instead of immediately starting the computer or putting your lost pen back in your chest pocket, you first make a proper mention of it. It is to be commended that nuclear safety is so important that even minor incidents are reported, even if they are significant for safety according to the standards of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Concrete rot falls under INES 1 and is immediately used as a reason to temporarily close the nuclear power plant. Sounds like a hell of a gig to me. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how the cooperation between the Dutch ANVS and the Belgian FANC is going. Does she see any reason to make an improvement in that? The perception of safety is also important. There should be no unnecessary panic by media calling for nuclear power plants to melt or, as I have just heard, to hang together with adhesive tapes. That is why the PVV believes that nuclear power plants should provide information generously and quickly if something happens. This gives citizens the opportunity to provide themselves with the right information in addition to the fake news. Mr President, attention to the foreign border municipalities is, of course, just as important as it is for the domestic communities. Therefore, the cabinet must ensure that Belgium and Germany inform the Dutch residents generously and quickly. It really doesn't have to be just when there's bad news. It may also be organised as a continuous dialogue with the environment. If I were a Belgian, I would hate to see the threat of energy shortages, but as a Dutch parliamentarians I am particularly pleased that the Belgians are seriously working on the INES 1 reports and that they are prepared to close the nuclear power stations if necessary until the problems have been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Wassenberg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u34	Maybe I didn't hear it right, but I think Mr Van Aalst was talking about fake news when it comes to nuclear power stations and scare-making. Is it frightening that six of the seven nuclear power stations will be shut down soon? Is it scary that the FANC has discovered concrete rot in a number of nuclear power stations over the last few months and discovered concrete rot in another reactor last year? Is it scary that the FANC found out the cooling water system isn't working? Is it scary that the FANC has also reported this year that radioactive water, 6,000 litres, has been leaked from one of the reactors? What does Mr Van Aalst call fake news and scare-making?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u35	Before you start: FANC stands for the Belgian Federal Agency for Nuclear Control. Just for the people who aren't aware of all the abbreviations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u36	That's the Belgian nuclear watchdog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u37	Let me say that I do not think Mr Wassenberg listened very carefully to my speech. I have explained very well what was going on and that it is all neatly covered by the INES report. It's nice that the FANC reported this so neatly. What I meant by scare-making is the scare-making that Mr Wassenberg showed here just as he pretends that all nuclear power stations are hanging together with tape and paper clips. Of course, that's just total bullshit. There have been reports and there are incidents and they are neatly arrested by the FANC, in our case in the Netherlands by the ANVS. It's communicated neatly with every report there is. If, in particular, you, as well as other parties, are drawing an image here as if we are all going to be destroyed tomorrow by all these nuclear power stations, that is total nonsense. That's what I call fake news, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u38	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u39	That "paper clips and tape" is, of course, transferable. I'm sure they'll use duct tape as well. This is a metaphor to show how bad the nuclear power stations are. The German Environment Minister has already mentioned "Schrott plants." That's what I've translated into "scrap plants." Those power stations are very, very bad, because they're very, very outdated, no matter how you turn it or turn it. That nuclear trip has been postponed a number of times, but should have taken place long ago for a number of plants. Does Mr Van Aalst agree with me that nuclear power stations are starting to get a little out of date, let me put it this way, and that this is worrying, given the accumulation of incidents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u40	It is true that a number of plants are obsolete. There is also a plan for when they close or are replaced. So there's no discussion about that at all. Is that what I'm worried about? No, because there's never been a time when people's safety has been compromised. I have asked the Secretary of State several times and, more importantly, we have even asked the Minister about this in the previous section. You shouldn't be yelling that everyone's gonna die tomorrow and those things are gonna collapse. That's scary. That's unnecessary. You scare people, and you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u41	Let me take a look at Mr Wassenberg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u42	I didn't say everyone's gonna die tomorrow. I said that this is a worrying situation. I didn't say it was armageddon tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u43	This is exactly the scaremongering that we see every time in this kind of debate. Will you just stop doing that for once? Just stick to the facts! The facts are that they fall within the INES scale. Be proud to have these people report everything neatly. Be proud of those people who do their jobs. We saw at the work visit to Borssele that these people were a bit upset. They are hard at work to bring the safety of nuclear energy from the Netherlands to their homes every day and to create them in a proper way. You create the image of the end of the world. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u44	There's been an interruption by Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u45	To now take off the OVV report and everything as fake news goes a long way for me. But my question is another. Mr Van Aalst is not concerned about safety and not about people's health. None of that is on the table. Is Mr Van Aalst of the PVV concerned that nuclear energy costs incredibly much, so the decommissioning costs of old nuclear power stations, the handling of waste, but also, as you can see at the Borssele plant, the production?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u46	I think it's about nuclear safety now. I do not think that I am talking about generating nuclear energy, because I believe that we have placed it at EZK. So I will not be tempted to start a discussion on nuclear energy. Yes, there is a problem with nuclear waste, but I think there are also many new alternatives to doing something else with it in a moment. I think that too is part of EZK. I have to make sure I stay on my own property. You too are now creating the picture that we are not worried about and that we are not paying attention to the OVV report because we think it is fake news. That's bullshit, of course. Of course there are concerns, but for that we have communication. That's what the Secretary of State is doing. To sketch the image that the world will end when an INES 1 report comes, we should not do with each other. That's unnecessary panic. That won't be necessary. People are not in danger from nuclear power. Just stop doing that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u47	I actually want a more substantive response. The decommissioning of nuclear power plants is a cost, just like dealing with the waste. These cost items have to do with nuclear safety. What is happening in Belgium now is because it is not well maintained. Maintenance costs incredibly much money. Isn't that a very good reason to say that we need to get rid of these nuclear power stations as quickly as possible, regardless of safety concerns, so really purely because of the cost aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u48	We are dealing with the Dutch nuclear power plants. I think they've done a hell of a job for each other. I don't see any reason to stop doing that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u49	Thank you. You've already had two interruptions. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u50	A praise for the PVV's nuclear energy. People have absolutely nothing to worry about. "Get some sleep!" That's the story of the PVV. At the same time, people in Zeeland, Brabant and Limburg are worried. Don't you take these concerns seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u51	Another bullshit interruption! Of course, there are people who are worried. We parliamentarians are in favour of removing these concerns. But what do we do? We all love those panic stories. I've been to Petten. There was a mayor over there taking us with egards, fantastic. The people in the area are happy that that nuclear power plant is there. We've been through the same thing in Borsele. Will you stop giving the impression that these nuclear power stations are terrible and that all people want them closed? No, we have to take into account the concerns of people who are there. We need to communicate properly. Just that good communication means: stop those panic stories! People aren't in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u52	I think this is really only half the answer. The PVV Group says loud and clear that it is all nonsense, that these nuclear power plants are absolutely safe and that we are all well. At the same time, we have a report from the Security Research Council. People in border areas are worried. I just want to hear from the PVV that she takes that concern seriously. Saying you're gonna explain it better one more time doesn't do justice to people's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u53	No, this is bullshit. Of course there are concerns, but there are no safety issues. I would now like to hear from you, Mrs Dik-Faber, where there are safety problems in nuclear power plants in the Netherlands. Call me one example, call me one example! It's just not true what's being said here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mrs Dik-Faber is about to make her speech. Maybe you can interrupt her. Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The risk of a nuclear accident is low, but if a nuclear accident occurs, the consequences are enormous, especially for neighbouring countries. All risks must therefore be avoided as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr Van Aalst had already announced an interruption, so it is no surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u57	You saw it coming. All those worries in the Netherlands, all those terrible nuclear power stations. Can Mrs Dik-Faber call me incidents in which the people in the Netherlands have been in danger? I think there's been a lot of incidents when I hear her like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u58	There have been a lot of incidents, and it is not for nothing that nuclear power stations have been shut down. That is what happened to our own nuclear power stations in Borssele and Petten, although medical isotopes are produced in Petten and that is not a power plant. It also happens to the Belgian power stations. I often call it flashing light systems, which are turned off more often than on these days. I don't think there's much of a nuclear power plant running anymore. That's not for nothing. There are incidents and they're acting on them, absolutely. But I understand very well that people are very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u59	I'm gonna try again. People are worried. But what exactly are people worried about? What is the problem in the Netherlands? There's no problem in Petten, there's no problem in Borssele. Security's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u60	It is said that the security summit is in order, but there has been a series of incidents. If I put it mildly, it's not trustworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u61	Unfortunately, you're out of interruptions. Mrs Dik-Faber continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u62	Cracks in reactor vessels: not really trustworthy. Technical malfunctions and now concrete damage in Tihange. The concern about Belgian nuclear power plants is growing with every news report and it seems no coincidence: every time new problem reactors are added. These are nuclear power plants from the 1970s and 1980s, which should have been shut down three years ago and which are close to the Dutch border. The most important question is whether the safety of our citizens is in order. Every time we hear that we don't have to worry. To be honest, I find that increasingly difficult to understand. It is precisely the Security Research Council that makes this an important point. The coverage is difficult to understand and incidents can cause a lot of unrest. I note that nothing has really changed in communication since the OVV report. Residents, mayors and council groups in the border region are quite rightly concerned. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge this and why hasn't communication changed? The border region also calls for the rapid closure of Tihange and Objective 3 at least. Is the Secretary of State prepared to urge Belgium to close these plants quickly? Can there still be any question of restarting? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the proper EIA procedures, including the participation of the Netherlands, will be followed in the event of recovery and conversion? I am also getting alarming signals about this. Mr. Chairman. I have heard a number of spokesmen, among others from the D66 Group, ask questions to the Secretary of State about supporting Belgium to close the nuclear power stations. After all, they face a threat of energy shortages. I think that is very useful questions. I did not include the subject myself in my speech, because I think it is mainly on the side of the Minister of EZK, but perhaps the Secretary of State can comment on it. I'm very curious about it. Otherwise, I will set it up for the debate with the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is not until next year that the International Atomic Energy Agency will carry out an inspection to see whether the previous recommendations have been implemented in the Objective nuclear power plant. My question is: isn't that far too late? What does the Secretary of State think of the fact that Euratom cannot intervene as long as the Belgian regulator states that everything is done within the safety margins? In January, the Safety Research Council published its report showing that cooperation between the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany in the field of crisis management in a nuclear accident should be improved. The report also states that the provision of information to citizens on the risks posed by nuclear power plants and action in the event of a nuclear accident should be improved. That doesn't make any sense. This feeling is reinforced by the response of the OVV to the follow-up of the recommendations, which is said to be disappointing. According to the OVV, there would still be no good cooperation and crisis communication in the event of a nuclear accident. Can the Secretary of State respond to this severe criticism? In response to the problems at Tihange 3, the Secretary of State writes that the ANVS will follow the reporting and contact the FANC if any uncertainties arise. Shouldn't the ANVS be on top of this much more? The OVV concluded in the report that there are agreements on the transmission of information on incidents at nuclear power plants, but that in practice the transmission of that information does not go according to agreement. Can the Secretary of State explain this? Does she agree with me that cooperation between supervisors and the sharing of information on incidents really need to be in order? Can she guarantee that information will now be properly shared? Mr President, I will conclude. My conclusion when I read the letter from the Secretary of State in response to the report of the Research Council for Security, is that she is going to start a lot of work and discuss a lot. She strives for certain things, but it's all not very smartly formulated. There's no hard targets in it. I find that disappointing. The only thing she is very clear about is that there will be a single point of contact for information. That is housed at the ANVS. I think it is a good thing that this window is being set up, but how do we ensure that it is actually available to the inhabitants of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u63	Thank you. I think Mrs Dik-Faber was right to say that this Secretary of State is responsible for nuclear safety. But we also have a Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, who is responsible for energy again. That's just about expectation management. I now give the floor to Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I also had doubts about Belgium, because everyone laughs there. That's how the good goal begins. However, the Belgians have lost their laughs, because at the start of this debate there is again a lot going on around nuclear power stations in Belgium. At present, a number of reactors have been shut down. This week was in the news that Belgium may have to shut down the power for a few days in November. Can we help Belgium with this? During the previous AO, Minister Wiebes indicated that there is a European energy market and that we should do this together. In doing so, high voltage operators from the Netherlands and Belgium are working together to increase interconnection capacity. It is also agreed at European level that we should coordinate the energy and climate plans, but also the associated interconnection. How's it going with these appointments? Is this helping Belgium already? However, nuclear knowledge is always important. Also for the Netherlands, because there are and remain medical applications. We must therefore ensure that there is at least sufficient level at this point. During the previous debate, we also discussed the provision of information. This involved the back-up flow of information between the security region and the ANVS. In the meantime, I think there has been another number of unusual events in Belgium. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the information between the Netherlands and Belgium and between the ANVS and the security regions has been provided? During the previous debate, the Secretary of State also referred to the importance of providing information through all the channels through which people seek their information. Two weeks ago, we went to work at the Borssele nuclear power plant. The chairman of the security region there told us that they are going to work with a twitter feed and, for example, to make animations about this. Can the Secretary of State give an update on how to proceed with the information provision? Are other security regions working on this, too? My party colleague Esther de Lange has tabled an amendment in the European Parliament which has led to the inclusion of cross-border inspections of nuclear installations as a specific objective in the resolution on the Euratom programme, a programme which, among other things, enables joint nuclear research. Is this known to the Secretary of State and can she indicate whether this amendment still affects the Dutch context? Finally, I had tabled written questions on Pallas in the summer. There seemed to be some noise between the national and provincial governments around the promised loan for Pallas. Fortunately, this has worked out well and both governments have kept their promises. I would like to emphasise once again how important that is. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you, Mr President. When I was preparing for this debate, I had the so-called déjà vu feeling. It's my birthday today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u67	So I got older for a year and I actually had the idea that maybe because of that, in that euphoria, I had overlooked some things. But that was not the case. We also had a general discussion in June on the subject of nuclear safety. Fortunately, a report has been drawn up on this. If you read through such a report, I think if the Secretary of State still has the answers, she can answer three quarters of the questions directly. The contributions that have passed through here are also, in some cases, almost in line with that general consultation. I also said at that time, when we had this general discussion, that it would be nice if Mr Wassenberg would withdraw his request for a plenary debate during the regulation, because otherwise we would be doing two things. But I can see Mr Wassenberg standing there, so I am sure he thinks otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u68	Sure. And on behalf of the committee, congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u71	First of all, sincere congratulations, of course. Mr Ziengs is talking about déjà vu, but unfortunately I am also suffering from it. Last year we talked about concrete rot. Now in 2018: concrete rot. All after that AO. Leaking systems: in 2018. And after the AO: leaking systems as well. Does Mr Zieng agree with me that it may also mean that we are now seeing again everything we have seen in recent years, but to a greater extent? And that ultimately it is not déjà vu, and that it is not a problem with us, but a problem with the nuclear power plant that just very quickly I would almost say "aging"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u72	That is a good point of view from Mr Wassenberg. In fact, in the second part of my speech, I wanted to return to the nuclear watchdogs we have appointed for this purpose. We have one in the Netherlands, we also have one in Belgium: FANC. This means that they are responsible for inspections and controls. You'll see that when something gets older, there will eventually be flaws. That's what you do when you get a little older. The art of course is to see what flaws they are. On the INES scale, I only note that every time it comes to hazards, it is incidents that are actually within the lowest risk profile.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u73	With your permission, Mr President, I am saving the second part of this interruption for the second part of Mr Zieng's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u74	Come on, you've requested the debate, so we'll reserve it. Mr Ziengs continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u75	At least I'm prepared for it now, Mr. Chairman. As my point has already been made, we discussed this in detail in June. I do not think that we should have an energy debate during this debate. I see all these examples coming along. I do not think that we should be having a foreign debate here either. It may then seem as if, as a liberal party, the VVD, we do not think it is important for people to feel safe. Yes, we do. In previous contributions, we have also indicated that if we use nuclear energy, it must be safe in any case. We also went to Borssele together. We've been informed there. We've been through all the facets of the company. We have seen new plans being made every 10 years and the nuclear power plant being adapted, including as regards external hazards. I just heard a question come by about planes. They showed us how they solved that. The Secretary of State will answer that question himself. As I said earlier, it is important for us that it is safe, that the control systems are correct and that appropriate precautions are taken. I also made a point of the exercises back then. I'll come back to that one more time. That must be streamlined and these exercises must be carried out at regular intervals. This should also be done in consultation with neighbouring countries and at an equivalent level. And what's most important is communication. That is what we indicated at the time, and it has been mentioned by other speakers. Let's just explain to people what's going on with security over there. Let us indeed explain what is going on there with the incidents that are taking place there. Let's also explain what that INES scale means. Because people often think it's very heavy things, but even if a pole is run over at a nuclear power plant, it's already an incident. In short, Mr President, safety first of all. I'd like to conclude with that. We need to make sure everything is in order and the controls are good. We do not have the impression that this is not the case now, so that's why my contribution is actually the same as with the AA. I therefore agree with the questions that I asked at the time and to which I also received answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you. There is also the announcement of the interruption of Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u77	I have a feeling of déjà vu again. I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Van Aalst. He mentioned all the incidents about "fake news." Mr Ziesgs talks about a "turnover pole" and that such an incident would have an INES qualification. That is, of course, total nonsense. The list of incidents over the past few months, so all incidents after that AO we've had, shows that it's about concrete rot, about leaking systems. That's not about a pole. Does Mr Zieng agree with me that the problems are a little more serious than he is suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u78	I have already said in the previous reply that we naturally applied gradations to the INES scale when it comes to the danger to the environment. All these incidents fall into the lowest degree. Mr Wassenberg spoke of 'concrete rot'. It can also be about concrete rot in another part of the building, so that the safety systems can actually work despite the concrete rot. But if that concrete rot is detected, it is good that it is eventually repaired and that it is also reported. Only, it would be nice if the environment just knew what the heaviness of the concrete rot was at that time. That's what I meant when I was talking about communication. Because when there is concrete rot, it often gives the impression to citizens that something is collapsing on it or that something is exploding. That is by no means the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you. I see you want to interrupt again, Mr. Wassenberg, but you've already used all your interruptions and gotten an extra one. I have to be honest with you, so you won't have the floor anymore. The Secretary of State has indicated that she needs about ten minutes to prepare the answers to all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u80	I would ask Members to take their place again. The Secretary of State is already ready to answer all the questions. I would very much like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are discussing nuclear safety here today, because I understand very well that people in the Netherlands do not think it should matter to them whether that power station is just across the border or just within the border. They want to be able to trust that safety is guaranteed. If this is not guaranteed by the government itself, then this must be ensured by the good cooperation between the government itself and by the responsibility of the other government, of course, for all those people living in Belgium around those power stations. I've realized that very much. Since the first time I was allowed to be active in this post, I have been concerned with this issue. I paid my first visit to the region, specifically on this subject. I think it is very important that people in the region, both Zeeland, Brabant and Limburg, know that we are paying attention to their concerns and that the attitude in The Hague is one of vigilance and commitment. I therefore also regularly consult with my Belgian colleague, Mr Jambon, and let the Dutch Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority constantly inform me of the safety situation of the Belgian nuclear power plants, as is the case with the Dutch nuclear power plant. I also work closely with mayors and other directors who are responsible for regional security. The Cabinet is also working vigorously on this issue in a moment, and I will look into it further in order to draw up the recommendations of the Security Research Council on cross-border crisis management. I understand, therefore, that the fact that so many power stations are shut down is not only reassuring for people and that somewhere that feels unsafe. I think that is what Mrs Kröger and Mr Wassenberg have been trying to illustrate. I think, on the other hand, that the input from Mr Ziengs, whom I also warmly congratulate on his birthday, is quite a rake. There's been aging. That means we just need to be extra sharp. And we are. So it really gets structural attention. The FANC plays a good role. You yourself have been to work at the FANC and I understand that was a good visit. I would once again like to thank Mr Jambon from this place for having made this work visit possible in the context of good cooperation between our two countries in this area. And I am glad that we, as the Netherlands, will also receive a Belgian delegation who will visit us at our inspection. All this in the context of transparency and cooperation between our two countries. There has also recently been an IRRS mission that has been an international mission in this field, and it has also confirmed that the FANC is doing its job well. The fact that six of the seven plants are now stationary, and that sounds a little different from what Mr Wassenberg has said, is actually proof that the system is working. It is not politics that prevails, but security is at the forefront. If there's a problem, they'll be shut down. I would also like to contradict the fact that, as Mr Wassenberg says, this is only happening on the basis of incidents. Because the shutdowns are very often simply the result of a regular maintenance stop. When I look at the status of all reactors in Belgium, only Target 1 is currently switched off due to a malfunction. In Objective 2, it is about an extended maintenance stop. In Objective 4, it is about an extended maintenance stop. At Tihange 1 a maintenance stop is planned. At Tihange 2 is switched off in an extended maintenance stop. Tihange 3 is also switched off by an extended maintenance stop. So during that maintenance, things come to light. They are then immediately taken away and the shutdown of the plant is then extended, because safety is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u82	My criticism was not about the FANC either, I am glad that it is indeed on top of it, but that these incidents accumulate very quickly. You see a number of times that the place for scheduled maintenance has to be closed for two months and this is then suddenly postponed by six months because the problems that are seen are still a lot more serious than initially expected. That is what my speech was about. It's a bit of incident policy, isn't it? The FANC is taking action. I am very happy with that; no criticism of the FANC. But what I find very worrying is that the incidents are more serious than expected each time. Sometimes they're totally unexpected, too. For example, construction errors in one of Tihange's power stations did not expect anyone in advance. So the incidents are really very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u83	That was perhaps the second point that I think it is important to speak clearly about what we are talking about. Mr Wassenberg says that the incidents are getting more serious. I've just had a look at what's going on with these incidents and how serious they are. In 2015, there were four incidents: all INES 1, no more than that. In 2016, there were seven incidents, all INES 1. In 2017, there was only one incident, including INES 1. In 2018, there are now six incidents, all INES 1. It is therefore not the case that the incidents are getting more serious. It's not like it's more and more common. There is very transparent communication about it. It is also extremely important, but it does not quite correspond to the image that people could draw from Mr Wassenberg's input, as if it were all getting more serious. What is important, however, is that during the maintenance stop in respect of everything that is said "this is not quite what we would like to have" you will find such a concrete situation when you look at it thoroughly during a maintenance stop: we will also get to work on it. Safety is considered to be so important every time, and I would add that a maintenance stop is being extended and there is no risk taken, not even with all kinds of other minor events. It's all neatly reported. But it's not like the incidents are just getting worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you. In conclusion, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u85	Then I would like to get an overview of incidents, also from the knowledge that 2018 is three-quarters on the road and we have already had six incidents while we still have three months to go. There's a lot of power stations out there, so maybe it won't be too bad with new incidents. I think it is particularly important to compare this with the number of incidents in Borssele. I understand that's a lot less. I would therefore like to see an overview of what is going on in Belgium and what is going on in the Netherlands, so that we can see what the dangerous boys are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u86	I'd be happy to give you such an overview. We will send it to the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u87	And can you let me know when?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u88	I think I can do that pretty soon, because I have the numbers right here. We need to make a nice note of it for the offer to parliament. But I'd be happy to, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u89	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u90	Then there's the O.V.V. report. The Safety Research Council published the report Collaboration on Nuclear Safety on 31 January. The reason was also the ongoing unrest. I also think it is very good that the OVV has kept this unrest under review and has kept the whole system under review to see what we can do about it. In my letter of 26 April to the OVV I sent it on behalf of the ministers of JenV and of VWS, I gave the cabinet's position on this report. I sent that letter to you, too. That was the end of April and the OVV responded to this letter at the beginning of July. In this letter, the OVV has not yet been able to take the improvements that have been put in place since April. I understand that very well. So they had to make a judgment without taking it with them. But I am confident that with the improvement actions we can address the concerns of the OVV. I understand both their report and your concern, but the improvement actions were not yet included. Since April, many improvements have been made. Joint practice with Belgium. Recently there has been a major nuclear exercise in the Netherlands, in which Belgium has also participated. I also took part in it myself, and so did the Minister. Information to be provided in case of authorisation in the border region. The ANVS and FANC inform the people on the other side of the border about future licensing procedures, so that you have not only on paper but also effective participation. Bridging into laws and regulations is in preparation both in the Netherlands and in Belgium. One entry was created on the ANVS website with information on nuclear safety and disaster response plans and information on incidents. This is the website www.infonucularrisco.nl. Agreements have been made with the Dutch and Belgian authorities on rapid and active public communication of events in nuclear power plants. This is also important in the case of so-called zero notifications, because people also think: hey, something happened, but what is it? So we also made agreements on zero notifications. A tabletop with Dutch and Belgian authorities is planned to check these agreements on the basis of a concrete case and to improve them where necessary. One was held at the end of August, but a follow-up meeting has also been made to see whether communication will work in all directions if a situation occurs in the Netherlands, in addition to a situation that was in Belgium. The international harmonisation of crisis management in the event of a possible nuclear accident must be regulated at many levels. The following actions are under way. At a national level, we are in talks with the federal authorities in Belgium and Germany about joint practice, planning, substantive principles, the implementation of measures, crisis communication and crisis decision-making lines. Security regions in the border region have regularly discussed international coordination with their regional authorities in Belgium and Germany. This is both operational and administrative. It also discusses further harmonisation of crisis management in the event of nuclear accidents. The Netherlands is also actively prioritizing the subject internationally. One example of this is the forthcoming IAEA meeting, a meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency on which a concrete test of the harmonization agreements with Belgium, Germany and France is being carried out. I would like to inform the Chamber about progress on all these points. I'll send you a letter on that. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked which actually relate to the energy side of the nuclear exit in Belgium. The President recalled: that is the responsibility of the Minister of EZK. My responsibility is, of course, to ensure that the situation in Belgium is safe. That's my responsibility. How the Belgians implement that security, either by maintaining plants regularly, or by closing them, is up to them. The choice for the way they do it is up to the Belgians. I think you should have the debate with the Minister of EZK on how the Netherlands can help. I can say something about two elements that I have been given. There is an existing interconnection capacity and it has recently been agreed to extend it. It will have to be ready by 2019. Furthermore, last Tuesday there was telephone contact between Minister Wiebes and Minister Marghem. The Netherlands is willing to assist Belgium if necessary. The network operators of both countries will explore this further. I can tell you about that. Mrs Kröger asked the question whether Borssele is Fukushimaproof. The nuclear accident in Fukushima was the result of a tsunami. It has, of course, been analysed whether this could also occur in Zeeland. It was then considered that this is not a real danger. However, as a result of Fukushima, stress tests have been carried out at all EU plants to further increase safety against external hazards. For Borssele, these stress tests have almost all been completed, except one. The complete rounding is expected in mid-2019. One of the questions that has been asked about very specific parts is: is Borssele resistant to an aircraft? The latest stress test analysis is ready for 2019. Any additional measures on this point will be considered. All stress testing measures shall be implemented. The latest issues will be implemented at the 2019 maintenance stop. In short, Borssele complies with all security measures and is now being increased even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u91	My question was actually about the impact of large aircraft. I understand that Borssele has not yet been tested for safety at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u92	The latest stress test analysis for this is indeed ongoing and is ready for the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u93	That's clear. What other aspects is the stress test still under way? The Secretary of State indicated that the stress test in some areas is not yet complete. In what other areas, besides large aircraft, is Borssele not yet safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u94	Borssele is safe, or Borssele wouldn't turn either. This is a round to make nuclear power plants even more secure against external impact. As I have just said, the measures have almost all been completed, with one exception. I understand that Mrs Kröger would like to know what those few are. Let me see if I can say a little more about that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u95	Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u96	Yeah, that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u97	I warn that this may be another technical story, but I am sure Mrs Kröger will be pleased about that. Maybe it's good to say something about how we make good communication. There were a number of questions from Mr Von Martels, Mr Ziesgs and Mr Van Aalst. It seemed important to me to indicate something more about what we are doing about it. The reason for going ahead with the zero notifications was that at some point there was unrest about a zero notification. We have made agreements with the security regions in Zeeland and Central and West Brabant on what we call a back-up run. If it is not reported directly from Belgium to all parties in the Netherlands, we will at least exchange such a report with each other in order to inform each other easily in the short term when reporting from Belgium, even if it is a zero report, and to indicate this report together. I also held consultations with Presidents and representatives of the security regions in all border regions on 9 July this year. Information has been discussed, both in the event of a nuclear accident with cross-border consequences and in the event of non-safety-relevant events. These agreements are now being worked out in more detail in a framework of cooperation. December 5th we speak again in this setting. In November, I will also visit the South Limburg security region to discuss these issues further. A nice web portal has been created that provides information on domestic and foreign nuclear power plants, on disaster response plans, nuclear risk and other relevant information for the public. As for the findability of this website, it can be found at www.infonucularrisk.nl. If a national crisis occurs, the national crisis information also provides direct information and ensures that this information can be found. But then it gets even higher in another way, even in all search portals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u98	I seem reassured, but I just want to know, just to make sure that the German nuclear reactor in Emsland is involved. And how is the communication between the Belgian, Dutch and German governments going? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u99	Of course, we are also talking to Germany about this nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u100	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u101	I can still say that on the basis of a use study the web portal is being further developed, because we just want to make sure that it meets the questions people have. Findability is also a point, and also whether the German situation is sufficiently involved, in the opinion of the people who like to use it. Then there is Mrs Dik-Faber's question about inspections. I hope I have indicated that there are very intensive contacts with the FANC. There is a continuous exchange of information and joint inspections. Three joint inspections are planned this year. There is regular consultation at management level between the ANVS and the FANC. So both on policy and on technical problems at the nuclear power stations and on the FANC inspection policy is simply very good mutual contact. Mr. Von Martels asked how the Netherlands maintains knowledge about nuclear safety. The task of the ANVS is to keep the knowledge of nuclear safety in order for its supervisory tasks in order. This is also done by having research carried out. It also participates in international research by the Nuclear Energy Agency and the International Atomic Agency, among others. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u102	I'll take a look at the members. In any case, I see an interruption by Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u103	In the second period, precise information will be provided on which areas the test is not yet complete. How can the Secretary of State say that the nuclear power plant is safe in any case, while the stress test on, for example, large aircraft impact and apparently some other cases has not yet been completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u104	The Fukushima stress test has been carried out to see if, in addition to all the security measures that are common, allowing the nuclear power plant to operate safely, additional measures are possible to further increase safety, against even more extreme conditions. That's what this is about. Almost all measures have been taken to this end. On the subject of'some other cases', I will let Mrs Kröger know what is still missing. As far as the aircraft are concerned, the analysis will be completed in mid-2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u105	It's an odd logic, though. Actually, the Secretary of State says it's safe, only by Fukushima we still need to analyze what happens under even more extreme circumstances. Fukushima has happened, that is a reality, and it has been said that we need to check whether our nuclear power stations are ready. That's not to say: it's already safe and there's got to be a shovel on top of it. That shovel is necessary. Isn't the only logical answer that we don't have a nuclear power plant open until that stress test is done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u106	It is always important to keep a cool head, even on these important issues. As a result of the situation in Fukushima has also been specifically tested whether the cause of the problems in Fukushima, which tsunami, could also occur in Zeeland. That analysis has been completed and that test has shown that we do not have to expect that. A broad assessment has been made of whether, in addition to all the measures which are standard elements of the safety of nuclear power plants in Europe, with Borssele, there has also been an agreement that it should be among the 25 most safe in Europe to take further measures to protect against even more extreme conditions, such as the impact of an aircraft. For the most part, the measures resulting from this stress test have already been completed. I'll let you know which ones are still there. For the plane, that will indeed be completed in the middle of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u107	Thank you. Then I'll look at Mrs. Dik-Faber for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u108	I had a question left over about Euratom, which can only take a look at it, or talk about it, if Belgium gives it the space to do so. That doesn't seem very trusting to me. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Does she see any possibility of looking with her colleagues in Europe to see if we can give Euratom a somewhat stronger position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u109	I believe that this affects part of Euratom's role alongside other inspections, such as those of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Let me find out what the legal situation is. I think it is very important that there can be international inspections, if there is any reason. The exact nature of the relationship with Euratom is indeed a question that has not been answered. I'll try to answer that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u110	Fine. The Secretary of State will come back to it. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u111	I had another question about the Security Research Council, which wrote a report in January. On 26 April, the Secretary of State said: this is what we are going to do with it. At the beginning of July, the OVV wrote that this is mainly a comprehensive declaration of intent, nothing more. The Secretary of State says that they are not yet aware of all the measures, because we did not do much until after April. Will we be kept fully informed and the OVV will be kept informed? I have a motion in preparation. He might even get a ruling on Room, who knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u112	I thought you didn't want to file these.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u113	I think I will, but does the OVV know what's happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u114	This motion may even get the verdict superfluous, because I have just tried to say, but that may not have been clear enough, that I will write the progress of all those recommendations in a letter to the Chamber and send them to the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you. I'll take a look at the room. All the questions have been answered sufficiently. Is there still a need for a second term? I think that's the case. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Five motions, but I'm going to do that quickly but intelligibly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to implement as soon as possible the opinions of the Security Research Council, as expressed in "Cooperation on Nuclear Safety," and to inform the Chamber of Progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Belgium intends to seek help from the Netherlands in the event of a threat of power shortages caused by cut-off nuclear reactors;]] [[noting that this may have a negative impact on the Dutch energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the Chamber in the examination of such a Belgian request and not to take irreversible steps until that time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Belgian electricity shortage may be partially offset by an increase in Dutch energy production;]] [[noting that this will be accompanied by an undesirable increase in Dutch CO emissions;]] [[Whereas supply of additional power can only be a temporary measure;]] [[calls on the Government to make the supply of additional electricity to Belgium conditional on the short-term greening and sustainability of its energy supply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25422-231]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25422-232]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25422-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u117	Fourth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that maintenance caused, inter alia, by aging and construction errors has shut down six of the seven reactors in Doel and Tihange in the coming months;]] [[noting that on 24 September the Belgian Minister for Energy reported to ask neighbouring countries to help Belgium with its electricity supply;]] [[calls on the Government, when the helping hand is extended to Belgium, to ensure that this is accompanied by an urgent appeal to the Belgian Government to close the obsolete nuclear power stations in Tihange and Doel as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25422-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u118	Then there's the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the incidents involving obsolete nuclear power plants in Doel and Tihange are following each other more rapidly and are also becoming more serious;]] [[whereas Germany and Luxembourg are very concerned about the outdated nuclear power plants in Belgium;]] [[calls on the Government to act in consultation with the (state) governments bordering Belgium in Germany and Luxembourg to act jointly to bring about the early closure of the obsolete nuclear power plants in Tihange and Goal, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25422-235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u119	In two minutes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u120	Thank you very much. You had a minute and a half, so you almost set a record, let's just say. Then Mrs. Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u121	Mr. Chairman. I don't come up with a bunch of motions like that. Mr Wassenberg had prepared so much that I could put my name under, that I shared that. I would like to say that I am actually very pleased that we have divided the safety side from the economic side in nuclear safety or in the nuclear debate. I think that's very valuable. I think we should do the same in the case of gas extraction, for example. That is not what this debate is for, so I will not dwell on it, but I think it is very sensible. The OVV has also recommended this more often with other energy sources. In essence, I think that is very clever. Then the economic importance cannot prevail over safety, as we have, of course, seen in gas extraction. At the same time, of course, I find it very regrettable that the questions that lie at the economic level and which may affect the energy bill of households in the Netherlands, and the question "how sustainable are we now?', can't be answered now. I have tabled several motions on this matter. I would nevertheless like to see how we can be informed about this as a Chamber, because we have a wide need for it. We're going to help Belgium. What demands can we make? How do we make this sustainability faster? And how do we ensure that Dutch households are not hit? And I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u122	Thank you. Then we go to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks for her second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on the stress test, because I think it is a strange answer. The Secretary of State says that initially only the risk of a tsunami was considered, but that stress test is really much wider. We have to take it seriously. It turns out that in some cases it is not yet clear whether it is safe. That's what I'm worried about. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the stress tests related to the Borssele nuclear power plant are not expected to be completed until 2019;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these stress tests are carried out as quickly as possible and that the nuclear power plant is shut down until such tests are completed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25422-236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u125	Thank you very much. I'll see if Mrs Van Eijs will make use of her second term. That's the case. Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u126	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the action of the Secretary of State in response to the OVV report and the ongoing unrest over the Belgian nuclear power plants. I therefore hope that the opinion of the OVV will be more positive than it has been so far and that the OVV will be satisfied with the follow-up to the recommendations. It is important to set up communications as well as possible while nuclear power stations are still open. I understand that the Secretary of State says that many of the questions asked lie in the field of energy. As the SP has just expressed very well, it is good to split up security and energy supply, the economic importance. But according to D66 this is really the best way to help the Belgians, now and on a core trip. This is also in the interests of the security, energy supply of the Netherlands and Europe and a larger whole. So I have the same question as the SP: how can we talk together about how we can help the Belgians in this area, when we are actually talking about security? I hope the Secretary of State can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u127	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. Let me see if Mr Van Aalst still needs speaking time. That is not the case. Neither does Mrs Dik-Faber, nor does Mr von Martels, nor does Mr Ziengs. I see that the Secretary of State needs a short suspension for the preparation of the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u128	I will reopen the sitting and ask the Members to take their place again. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State to give her appreciation of the motions tabled. There are also a number of questions. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Beckerman put it nicely when she said: it is good that there is a split between the debate on security on the one hand and the debate on energy policy on the other. We have talked about the fact that six of these seven plants are now at a standstill in Belgium. This shows that security takes precedence over energy policy and it is good to see that it works in this way, but it only means that, unfortunately, I have to disappoint Members about all their questions in the field of energy policy and cooperation. They must therefore talk about this with Mr van EZK. The same applies to the motions tabled by Mr Wassenberg. There are regular debates with the Minister of EZK and interconnection is very often discussed and the supply of electricity to neighbouring countries is often discussed. So I would actually suggest to them that we discuss these questions, which I understand very well, with him in one of the forthcoming debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u130	That seems reasonable to me. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u131	(NL) Mr President, I think that is certainly reasonable. I do not know exactly how it works with collegial government, but could the Secretary of State, for example, promise that a letter will be sent to us so that we could enter such a debate properly prepared. I don't know if that's okay, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u132	If I have listened carefully to the Secretary of State, she has actually indicated that she would share directly with the Minister the questions that have been asked. Otherwise, it will be very confusing because this Secretary of State will also have to write down the Minister's questions. I hope that's workable for you, too. There are still a lot of discussions with the Minister on this subject. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u133	Mr President, I have tabled a number of motions on this subject and I would like to make the motions on item Nos. 232, 233 and 234. I will approach the Minister of EZK on this, probably through written questions. I'll hold on to these motions for a moment. I won't move them in, but I'll keep them on!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u134	Thank you, too, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Then I come to the assessment of the remaining motions. The motion in part No. I must advise Mr Wassenberg not to do so, because I have just promised that I will start implementing the recommendations of the OVV as soon as possible. I'm already working on that and I'll inform the Chamber and the OVV about it. Mr. Wassenberg, that will certainly be arranged! So this motion is superfluous, and that is why I can advise her against it. It's been implemented before you submitted it, we might say. Then the motion to part No. 235 on joint consultations with neighbouring countries on the conclusion of the agreement. I think I made that quite clear that it is my responsibility to ensure safety. In what way a neighbouring country fills that out is not up to me, and that is why I am not prepared to make specific calls with the other countries for closure. If they guarantee safety in any other way, my responsibility will be fulfilled. That's why I have to discourage that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u136	My question concerns my first motion. The Secretary of State says that this is already being worked on, but the Chamber did not know that and apparently the OVV did not know that either. He knew that at least not at the time of the reaction. Then why doesn't the Secretary of State say "we're working on it and so it might as well be judged Chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u137	The Chamber was informed about it at the time Mr Wassenberg tabled this motion, because I had just informed the Chamber that we would do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u138	And we all witnessed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u139	We've been told it would happen, but we haven't heard a single detail or anything else. So in that respect, I think it is a good thing that the Chamber should give a ruling on this. I'm surprised the Secretary of State says, "I'd advise against him."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u140	Let's get this over with. During the debate, the Secretary of State indicated that she would do so. She also indicated at that time that the motion would be superfluous if you tabled this motion. But again, the Chamber is about voting and the Secretary of State is about her judgment. And she betrays the first motion in part No. 231.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u141	I am sure that Mr Wassenberg is concerned with the content and not with the motion for a resolution. It is, of course, a means and the goal has already been achieved. He gets a letter about that and, again, he goes to the Security Research Council itself. There were two questions left. The first was about Euratom inspections. This was a question from Mrs Dik-Faber. We're in some kind of structure, and I have to say a little bit more about that. The obligation to carry out an international audit, an IRRS mission, at least once every 10 years, arises from international regulations. It's mandatory. The Netherlands has had them, too. This mission has produced a number of recommendations that have been implemented. Then there was a follow-up mission. In addition, all countries have an independent national supervisory authority that can request an international peer review in both Euratom and IAEA contexts. This is therefore done at the request of the independent supervisor. On the one hand, there is the possibility of requesting that. On the other hand, there is the obligation of an IRRS mission at least once every ten years. Moreover, this obligation does not stem from the Euratom Treaty. The other question that remained was that of Mrs Kröger on the stress test. The Chamber was extensively briefed on the entire stress test system in 2017. What's there and what's not in it? This was also about the implementation in 2017 and 2019. I suggest that I inform the Chamber again about that whole thing. It's pretty technical. I will specify where there are still outstanding points and when they have been completed. Then you just have everything neatly in a row. By the way, this in no way leads to the conclusion that Borssele is not safe and therefore cannot rotate. I think Mrs Kröger can rest assured of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u142	There is a question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll hold my motion until I get that letter. I would very much like the letter to really address the Secretary of State's statement that Borssele is safe despite the fact that these stress tests have not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u144	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u145	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion (25422, No. 236). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the clear explanation on Euratom. I do know the treaty. Does the Secretary of State consider it desirable that an investigation should be carried out more frequently at the initiative of Euratom? Once every ten years is not very frequent, given the topicality of the discussion. I have no idea when the next IRRS mission will be on the agenda. If it lasts nine more years, it does feel very unsatisfactory. FANC insists that nothing is going on and says: sit down in your own seat. Perhaps Euratom is eager to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u147	There has really been a very recent IRRS mission in Belgium and has been completed. Let me see if the results can be sent to the Chamber. Then you know what we are talking about when it comes to the current situation of nuclear power stations in Belgium. The mission just came. Among other things, it showed that the FANC is doing its job well. I will be happy to communicate with you the results we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u148	When can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u149	We will be able to do that fairly quickly. I have to make it a proper letter to the Chamber, but that shouldn't take long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u150	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u151	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
