ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	Then we're gonna ask about the last one. These are Mr Wiersma's questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment about the fact that flexivity is being exploited on a large scale. I call Mr Wiersma. He speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. We live in a time different than half a century ago. In that respect, there is nothing new under the sun. It is only rare that people turn to an employer after school, work there for at least 40 or 45 years and then retire. That's happening less and less. The labour market is changing and work is changing. Temporary work, flex work, is not only of this time, it is in many cases also an advantage of this time. A form that people often choose very consciously and which they often also see as a stepping stone to that permanent job. Therefore, the VVD does not recognize itself in the black image that the CNV sketched this weekend in De Telegraaf and that employers seem to be shaving about a questionable comb. But, Mr President, at the same time every employee in any form of contract is entitled to an employer who complies with the laws and regulations. The VVD is in favour of people being able to work in different ways, but it is precisely for this reason that it is very fierce against situations where those rules are being ignored and hardworking people are getting hurt. Hence a number of questions to this Minister. Does the Minister recognise himself in the picture outlined by the CNV? Do you have any signals that flex workers are being exploited massively? Is it true that payments are sometimes wrongly not paid? Is there more evidence that rules are sometimes not enforced? We're doing all right, aren't we? Mr. Chairman. For the VVD it is important that where there is flexwork, we do it very carefully and well, and that if we do not, we act very hard. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Wiersma for asking the questions. I also read the article in De Telegraaf. Indeed, for workers, long-term work with a flexible contract leads to uncertainty about income, about their future, about the possibility of getting a mortgage. The appeal of the CNV is therefore not unknown to me. The cabinet also wants to take steps to improve the situation for flex workers. The government agreement includes a package of measures to restore the labour market balance. Then you have to distinguish between, on the one hand, preventing the negative effects of flexibility, for example, by strengthening the legal status of call contracts or by addressing the payroll in such a way that it is no longer an instrument for competition but for giving employers relief, but also with a proposal to shape the premium differentiation, i.e. the WW, between fixed and flex contracts. That's what happened on the flex side. At the same time, I agree with Mr Wiersma that it is important in general that the labour market remains flexible. As the General Confederation of Broadcast Enterprises also states in the same article in De Telegraaf, flexible forms of work are of course needed, for example, to cope with peaks and ills or to enable a step to a paid job, because a lot of people find a job through a temporary job. In addition, we agreed in the government agreement that it should be attractive for employers to offer a permanent contract again. That is why we are making a number of proposals to adapt, for example, the cumulation ground, the Wz, and to allow a five-month probation period to take a step towards a fixed contract. All these measures, a combination of flex-side measures on the one hand and fixed-side measures on the other, must ensure that employers return to offering more people a permanent contract and thus restore the balance on the labour market. Another specific question from Mr Wiersma, which has remained, is whether I recognize the picture of the surcharges. I find it complicated to judge that. We know, indeed, that there are increases in collective agreements which may differ from the collective agreement for the ABU, the General Confederation of Broadcast Enterprises, but what exactly is at issue in the article is not clear. I find it very complicated at the moment to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	I'm missing one more question. I am glad that the Minister outlines the two sides, that flex work also has a role to play. We will be the last to discuss it. It is also important that the Minister indicates that we are going to deal with this cabinet and that we are also making the permanent contract attractive. These are measures we have in our electoral programme and we are pleased to see them now in the government agreement. However, I do miss the answer to the question of whether there are other signals that workers with flex contracts are being exploited. The thesis is that this is happening massively. I wonder if the Minister recognizes that image, because that is a different picture than the VVD has. Mr. Chairman. What is wrong is wrong, and we must fight it. At the same time, the VVD really wants to ensure that we start to think as rigidly in the discussion about temporary work as the unions with the form of contract they really want to put all these workers into. Not everything that's temporary work is wrong and not just that steady job is good. I hope the Minister agrees with us. It's not black and white. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that we should dare to distinguish between different types of flexwork? Does the Minister also see good examples of where agreements with the social partners have led to securities being attached to contracts that may be temporary but are temporary? There is a very good example of the CNV itself in the supermarket sector. It's four-year contracts. The VVD would like to see such long-term temporary contracts concluded much more often. This also offers a perspective for people who may be in such a temporary contract but who can get more education and thus build certainties. Does the Minister agree with us that it is precisely those long-term temporary contracts that can be a good mix in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr President, Mr Wiersma has asked many questions in the second term. I agree with him that it is not black and white. There are certainly also very good examples of flexible work that are needed to cope with peaks and disease. Also very often temporary jobs are a stepping stone to a good normal job. Then we shouldn't throw away the baby with the bathwater. At the same time, I note that 80% of the people who depend on a flex contract are unhappy with that. They are particularly unhappy with the fact that they always go from flex contract to flex contract and therefore have no perspective on a permanent job. They also have no perspective on collateral such as getting a mortgage. Mr Wiersma specifically asks me if I see any signs of exploitation. Not very concrete; at least, not generic, but I do see signs. For example, zero-hour contracts or payroll constructions do compete on working conditions, which makes people worse off. That is why we have included in the coalition agreement that these three forms are being addressed in order to provide greater security for these flexible forces. Finally, the good example of the supermarket cao. I can see that, but it is a very specific case. It is about people who often work close to a supermarket, who get a five-year contract but also get the opportunity to retrain. This can already be done within the current legislation, and I am also pleased that it is being used. I just do not see it as the solution for restoring the balance on the labour market. That really requires more, and Mr Wiersma is happy to agree with the cabinet, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yes, Mr President, we very much agree. I am also pleased that the Minister nuances the image that the CNV has put out. This does not contribute to solving the problems in the labour market. Flexing and temporary work are of great value. And rightly so, it has a price. It is very good that we, as a VVD, have also put in the pass-through of our election programme that flex work is becoming more expensive. We're in favour of that. But at the same time, the Minister also asks for no black-and-white thinking. I am a liberal, but I also believe that there is more in the labour market between heaven and earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	And that is precisely the construction of that long-term temporary contract, which, according to the Minister, does occur but which is unknown how often, should be applied much more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	I hope the Minister's commitment will be to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr President, I am not very well-known as a black and white person. So that's easy for me to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was just ten minutes broadcast from the four coalition parties. We have also read the coalition agreement well. A nice good news show, but I think this is very specific about the broadcasting industry in this Telegraph article too, and about the wildwest practice in the broadcasting industry. There are a lot of temporary employment agencies that do indeed deal very badly with people, and that is what the trade union movement points out. I sometimes wonder what reality the temporary employment agencies actually live in. If we talk about discrimination, we get a very easy response from the temporary agency agencies, while there is discrimination on a daily basis. If we are talking about unacceptable behaviour with people, and that is what happens with temporary employment agencies, then that is the reality of everyday life. And what do I hear from the ABU? I don't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Van Dijk, your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u18	And my question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u19	Yeah, that's what it was about, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u20	Indeed, the unions have not left the Foundation for Normalization Labour for nothing, the SNA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u21	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u22	What is this minister going to do to get the unions back to the table? Because this foundation is about the enforcement against these crooked temp agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u23	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u24	That was a long question from Mr Gijs van Dijk. First of all, I want to nuance the picture, because that article by De Telegraaf contains a broader consideration of flex work. This is not just about agency workers, but also about short flex contracts, payrolling and zero-hour contracts. So it's not just about the broadcasting industry. On the other hand, we have often had a debate here on excesses in the temporary agency sector, which we all believe should be addressed. Just one nuance: of course, the broadcasting industry has a collective agreement. This is already an improvement on the position of many other flex or zero-hour contracts, which offer no certainty. At the same time, it remains necessary that we continue to do so. See also, for example, the Radar debate on discrimination, where the Secretary of State will shortly present a letter on how to tackle labour market discrimination. So when it comes to abuses, we have to keep our eyes and ears open. In practice and during work visits, I also see a lot of drive, including for temporary agency companies, to address the shortcomings, so I would like to nuance that image a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u25	It is only to be commended that this cabinet recognizes the need to restore the balance of the labour market, with two million flex workers now, or 35% of workers in the Netherlands. In this way, the Netherlands is at the front, or indeed behind, in Europe when it comes to job security. This is a cabinet of "putting your hands together" and of "going to work." The Minister himself is proud of that. But you can only do that if you set goals. So my question is: what targets does this minister have when it comes to restoring that balance? What is "the upper limit" when it comes to the percentage of flex workers in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u26	I also had this debate with Mr Gijs van Dijk last week, and Mr Özdil was there. At that time, I gave a very broad consideration to why I do not think it is wise to set such targets. What I do think is wise is to set myself goals. One of the concrete objectives is that I want to go to the Council of State before the summer with the bill on fixed and flex. Then, in the third quarter of this year, I will be able to come to your Chamber with that bill, precisely in order to tackle these excesses and reduce the difference between fixed and flex. I hope that GroenLinks will also cooperate to make this possible. We are counting on the support of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u27	I am pleased that, following the example of the SP, more and more parties feel that we should put an end to the unbridled growth in the number of flex contracts in the Netherlands. If you heard this minister, you'd almost think this cabinet is going to do the same. Is the Minister therefore prepared to relax the right of dismissal and allow people to wait a year longer for a permanent contract to be withdrawn as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u28	Well, I'm not willing to. I think it's important to put some nuance into this. In recent years, we have heard very often from employers that they are afraid to offer people a permanent contract, because of the Work and Security Act. We have included two things in the coalition agreement. We allow for a cumulative basis in the right of dismissal, but there is a higher remuneration for dismissal. So on both sides we are changing something, expecting employers to offer more permanent jobs. I think Mr Van Kent also shares that objective with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time.
