ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34761, English-language case law international trade chambers court and court of Amsterdam, or Netherlands Commercial Court. I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Madam President. My kids are all wired to the website, but I'm just getting started early. It can't be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u4	I don't understand. Your kids are on the website? Oh, I get it. The livestream.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u5	The livestream, yes, exactly. We're starting five minutes early.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u6	But you don't really mean this, do you? Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u7	No, we have to learn to live with this disappointment. Madam President. International commercial chambers of commerce are growing out of the ground this year, as my group has noted. The success of the Commercial Court of London has contributed little to this: 80% of the cases of this court have at least one foreign party and in almost 50% of those cases both parties are foreign companies. The UK "market" of commercial litigation legal services represented a total of €16 billion in 2016. The success is not least due to the fact that the United Kingdom has access to the mechanisms of mutual recognition of judgments within the Member States of the European Union, an access that will change at the forthcoming Brexit. EU countries continue to benefit from automatic recognition and implementation of judgments in all EU countries, while in a Brexit the United Kingdom is no longer an integral part of the EU legal system, unless special agreements are made or have been made. Otherwise, after the Brexit, every ruling in London will have to go through the necessary exequatur procedure of each EU country individually before it can be implemented. That is why an international commercial court has been established in several EU countries: in Paris, it is already possible to submit all the procedures started after 1 March 2018 to the newly established international trading chamber there. Similar projects have been initiated in other EU countries such as Ireland, Belgium and Germany. The present proposal is largely inspired by the Paris initiative. It offers the possibility to deal with a case in the English language, if the Amsterdam court or court. the Amsterdam Court has jurisdiction "to take note of a dispute which has arisen or will arise as a result of a particular legal relationship which is open to parties and concerns an international dispute'. According to the explanatory memorandum and the draft procedural rules, these are international civil and/or commercial matters whose legal effects are free to determine the parties. In practice, the Minister expects, only complex international trade disputes will be submitted to these specialised chambers. It is essential that the parties are not obliged to bring proceedings before the court or the Court for these newly established chambers: this is the case only in the event of the express consent of both parties. For these Chambers, therefore, if my group has understood correctly, proceedings can only be brought if the following three conditions are met: 1. The courts or courts of Amsterdam must have jurisdiction to hear the dispute in accordance with the normal rules of civil procedure. 2. The parties must have expressly agreed that they wish to submit their dispute to the Netherlands Commercial Court. 3. At least one party must have its principal place of business abroad, or international law must apply to the dispute. Please confirm from the Minister whether these are indeed the conditions and whether these are also all the conditions. Madam President. My group also understands that the establishment of these courts meets a need. International trade takes place worldwide, contracts and correspondence are concluded and conducted in the English language of trade. When conflicts arise, it is not very efficient, to put it mildly, to have to translate them back into Dutch, to hear witnesses and experts with interpreters and translators, and finally to translate the ruling in Dutch back into English. At this Netherlands Commercial Court, the advantage is that parties in English can not only submit their productions, correspondence and grievances to the court, but also witnesses and experts can be heard in the same language and that a ruling is also made in English, so that time and money can be saved on translation and other costs. Madam President. If one of the parties does not wish to bring proceedings before the Netherlands Commercial Court, for example because of the high registry rights, there is always the possibility to refer the dispute to the "ordinary" commercial court of the court and Court of Amsterdam against the lower registry rights. This is important, because it removes the reproach that here and there sounds like the introduction of a kind of first- and second-class case law. It is the same judges who speak according to the same, usually Dutch law. The only difference is that the case against higher registry fees for the NCCA is conducted and sentenced in English and for the ordinary commercial court against lower registry fees in Dutch, where translation costs come around the corner. The NCCA also has the power to mitigate the registry duties. This could be used, for example, when a third party has to join. A case may be brought against the ordinary lower rate of registry duties where a party considers that it is wrong to be called before the NCCA. My group still has some questions for the Minister concerning the funding of the NCCA. The Minister stated that the 3.8 million needed to get the NCCA off the ground "are being advanced by the Judicial Council." What are we supposed to mean by that? Is that money coming from the Justice budget, from the Council of Justice, or is that money being extra provided by the Justice Department because it is an innovation initiative here? I would like a clear and clear answer from the Minister! The Minister also acknowledges that, after ten years of start-up time, these start-up costs will be recovered in one year, perhaps even earlier if the NCCA proves to be a success. Afterwards there will be "profits," at least more money will be received than there are expenses. My group has already raised the question in the preliminary report: who decides on the use of this profit? Are these revenues earmarked for the case-law, for the NCCA, paid in for the budget of Justice and Security, without benefiting specifically the case-law or, worse still, a great deal of money deposited in the pot? The Minister has already recognised that after 10 years there will probably be a positive balance per year. Literally he said: "Because the calculations are based on assumptions, maintaining some room in the budget is prudent." Madam President, it is undoubtedly prudent, but the Minister has not yet answered our question. We therefore call on the Minister to give a crystal clear answer: where will the additional revenue be? Are they earmarked for justice, yes or no? Will the Minister undertake that, should the NCCA generate more revenue than expenditure, this revenue will benefit the (Council for the) case-law? Finally, my group would like to hear the Minister confirm once again that the more than cost-covering registry fees to be paid for a procedure for the NCCA are in no way a precedent for introducing a system of cost-covering registry fees in the Netherlands as well as for the regular case-law in the Netherlands. As is well known, my group is opposed to this. In this very specific case, where there is a chance, but we still have to wait and see that foreign companies would like to conduct proceedings before the NCCA, my group can in principle justify the imposition of higher registry fees, so that the financial burden does not weigh on the regular budget for the judiciary. However, this should in no way be seen as a precedent for introducing cost-covering registry fees in general into the Dutch system. Can the Minister confirm this in an unequivocal manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. Please stand still, because I see a question coming from Mrs Vlietstra and then from Mrs Duthler. Mrs. Vlietstra, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u9	I shall go back to the beginning of Mrs Lokin's story, where she rightly states that it is the same judges who judge in the international trading chamber and the regular trading chamber. Do I understand correctly that Mrs Lokin no longer has the argument that these registry rights are too high for some entrepreneurs? In other words, if you can't afford it, you can always choose the usual trading room. Is that what you meant? If that's the case, then my question is whether you think that's reasonable. Shouldn't the international trading chamber be open to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u10	What I wanted to say is that no one is obliged to sue for the NCCA. Smaller companies which find the Registry fees too high, which are not willing or able to pay those Registry fees after a trade-off, may submit their dispute to the ordinary commercial court against the lower Registry fees. This is voluntary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u11	Yeah, so I got it right. My question remains as to whether you consider it reasonable that it is or is not able to determine those high registry fees, whether you can make that choice for the International Chamber of Commerce. Do you think that's reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u12	That choice is always determined by more considerations, not only the registry rights, but also the registry rights, but also the possible translation costs and other additional costs, when you have to do so for the ordinary trading chamber, while you have all kinds of productions or witness experts appearing in English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u13	Finally, Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u14	I understand that Mrs Lokin does not find it a problem, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u15	Yeah, that's too bad you regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u16	Ms Lokin began her contribution by referring to Paris, the International Chambre of Commerce. I waited for her story to tell me if she came back, but she didn't. I was wondering what Mrs Lokin intended, what her message was by referring to it and whether she also knows that this is a private organisation and that it is not a form of state justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u17	I'm not familiar with that. I thought this was the same system... No? Oh, well, I didn't know that. According to the article I read and it's in a note, it would just be a room, exactly the same system as it is with us. That's how it would be done, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u18	Hence my question. I myself looked up the website of this organization and also saw that you can become a member. It's a union. There are a lot of companies, especially large companies, members. If you are a member of that association, you can submit your international trade dispute there. It's a form of private justice or arbitration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u19	Okay, I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u20	Once again, thank you, Mrs Lokin. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. I will speak on behalf of the SP, GroenLinks, 50PLUS and the Animal Party. The next item is a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and the Registry Rights Act. On behalf of the SP Group, Green Left, 50 Plus and the Animal Party, I would like to discuss the following four points with the Minister: 1. Why is the law only written for the Netherlands Commercial Court, otherwise called the NCC, and not justice wide? 2. The bill provides case law within a reasonable time by paying more Registry Law. This creates priority and thus discrimination in the caselaw. 3. The desirability of cost-covering Registry fees, whether or not. 4. How is the quality of the translation of the judgments regulated? The first point. Why is the law only written for the NCC and not for justice? The initial wording of the bill states that the bill allows English-language case law to be referred to as the NCC and the NCCA at the international trading chambers of the Amsterdam Court and the Amsterdam Court, which are called the Netherlands Commercial Court and the Netherlands Commercial Court of Appeal. English-speaking justice sounds very fidelity at this time of globalisation. "It puts the Netherlands on the map." However, English-language case law has long been possible and is already being implemented on a wide scale. The only thing that cannot yet be done is to make statements in the English language. This raises the question of why the government is only allowed to get a ruling in the English language for the NCC and the NCCA and not for justice. One can think of the maritime law and shipping business chamber of the Rotterdam court. Has the court lobbied Rotterdam too little or lost the tender? After all, also in the maritime chamber of the Rotterdam court, cases are conducted with an international character and are brought before the court in English. Here, too, we are dealing with the settlement of international disputes in which one or both parties come from outside the Netherlands. Summaries of judgments of the Maritime Chamber are already published on case law.nl. I'd like the Minister's response. The second point. Jurisdiction within a reasonable period of time by paying more Registry Law. On the website of the NCC, it can be read that the NCC provides a forum that can resolve trade disputes within a reasonable period of time. Those parties who are unable to pay the NCC's registry costs would also like to settle within a reasonable period of time. Is this law opening the door to a system of health insurance and private individuals in the justice system? I'd like the Minister's response. If large undertakings which can afford the costs of the Registry are given priority, they shall consume the capacity to which they seize. It will no longer be available to people and businesses with less money, which will increase the time limits for the less wealthy people and businesses. The political groups of the SP, Green Left, 50PLUS and the Party for Animals reject any form of primacy in justice. This creates division. Could the Minister promise that the capacity and costs of this Chamber of Commerce will not be at the expense of the capacity and resources for the other cases of justice? I'd like the Minister's response. The third point. The desirability of cost-covering Registry fees. With this bill, the right of registry for proceedings before the NCC and the NCCA can be set at between €7,500 and €20,000 in order to cover the costs of the exclusive procedure. As regards this increase in the Registry Law or the cost-covering Registry Law, I refer the Minister to the repeal of the bill on the increase in the cost-covering Registry Rights by letter dated 23 January 2013, also following the debate in the First Chamber on the Evaluation Law Modernisation of the judiciary (32021), in which the First Chamber looked forward to the legislative proposal on the increase in the cost-covering Registry Rights on 10 May 2011. I quote for the completeness, with thanks to the Registry, from the contribution of the VVD chamber member Mrs Broekers-Knol and that of the CDA chamber member Mr Van de Beeten. I will start with Mrs Broekers-Knol's contribution: "An important foundation of our democratic system, the rule of law, is independent, high-quality and accessible justice that is paid out of the general budget. After all, tax is also paid for this.' Then from Mr Van de Beeten's contribution: "I wholeheartedly and wholeheartedly endorse the considerations put forward by Mrs Broekers. In dealing with the legislative proposal on the revision of the system of registry, we said together in October last year that the proposal contained in the coalition agreement is extremely questionable and cannot be so. I therefore hope that the Minister will eventually operate with some wisdom on this issue." What has changed now that the government wants to introduce cost-covering registry fees for the NCC and the NCCA alone? I'd like the Minister's response. For the groups of the SP, GroenLinks, 50PLUS and the Party for Animals, it is important that we do not cross this bridge of cost-covering registry fees. That is a crucial point of principle. Because if it is accepted for one area, then perhaps the argument will play in other areas too, and then access to justice will be threatened again. I'd like the Minister's reflection on this. Mrs Duthler will address, on behalf of the VVD, the issue of cost-covering registry law. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and Then there is the fourth and final point. How is the quality of the translation of the judgments regulated? The judges who will sit in the NCC and the NCCA are Dutch judges. How is it monitored that the judgment is drawn up in the English language in accordance with applicable legislation and the intention of the legislator concerned, since most of the Dutch judges who sit in the NCC and the NCCA are not native speakers in the English language? How is this monitored? The groups of the SP, GroenLinks, 50PLUS and the Party for Animals like to hear about this from the minister. The political groups of the SP, GroenLinks, 50PLUS and the Party for Animals look forward to the Minister's reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u23	Thank you, Madam President. At the beginning of this contribution on behalf of the VVD Group to the plenary debate, I would like to say that as a lawyer I sometimes assist companies that are parties to international trade disputes. Let me say first of all that my group considers the introduction of an international trading chamber at the court and the Court of Amsterdam to be a sympathetic idea at first sight. It also recognises that there may be some need for such a room or rooms. At the same time, it considers that the reply and the further reply by the Minister are not sufficiently addressed. Those hooks and eyes can be divided into the following categories. First, the introduction of cost-covering registry rights in relation to Article 6 of the ECHR. Secondly, the special category of companies, that of the large companies for which the bill seems to have been written. Thirdly, KEI's deficits and imminent failure to deal with the case law. Finally, the relationship between the level of costs incurred by the International Chambers of Commerce for the case-law and the objections to the introduction of cost-covering registry fees. I will begin with the relationship with Article 6 of the ECHR. My group is wondering how the introduction of cost-covering registry fees relates to this article. For the sake of completeness, Article 6 of the ECHR is the right of any person to a fair and public hearing of his or her case within a reasonable period of time before an independent and impartial court established by law. My group is concerned and wonders whether high registry fees do not create an unnecessarily high threshold for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular and whether this group of companies still has access to justice. Let me explain and outline the context. The VVD Group has already referred to this in several debates over the last ten years, Mrs Wezel, saying that she has significant objections to the introduction of cost-covering registry fees. The argument put forward in this bill for its introduction is that the International Chamber of Commerce provides for a need of only a limited group of judges and that the costs should therefore be borne by this group. This argument alienates the members of the VVD Group. The polluter pays principle or the principle of profit has not been applied before when it comes to justice and access to justice and is a principle which is alien to justice as a state power and an important carrier of the democratic rule of law. The General Council of the Dutch Order of Lawyers put it as follows: "Registration rights should be the same for the various chambers of the court, whether it be the NCC or, for example, the business chamber. It should be avoided that market forces are introduced into the case-law with the possibility for more capital-intensive parties to achieve justice in a more efficient way and with fewer obstacles." Would the Minister like to reflect on this? Does he consider that this legislative proposal introduces market forces into justice and, if so or no, why does he take that view? I come to the second category, the distinction between large companies and SMEs. The draft law seems to have been written mainly for large companies, especially multinationals. It is striking that, in the reply and further reply, the Minister gives the impression that he does not assume that smaller companies can also deal with trade disputes and international trade disputes that go beyond what he outlines in his further reply. He seems to ignore the fact that this group of companies can also face complex disputes and/or major financial interests. The Minister speaks of the hairdresser around the corner; however, the VVD Group, when asking the previous questions, had in mind the start-ups, the ICT suppliers or, for example, the suppliers to the automotive industry, a group of companies that makes an important contribution to the Dutch economy. This group of SMEs may face disputes that go beyond the relatively simple contracts and remain unpaid of uncontested claims on which the Minister writes. The group of companies I mentioned may also have to deal with disputes arising from complex contracts. Examples include contracts necessary for the development of an ICT system for a hospital. These include construction contracts, operating agreements, guarantee agreements and the establishment of collateral. Almost always, there are several parties involved in such a contract, including domestic and foreign suppliers. Moreover, this group of SMEs is often the group that is at the root of innovation. Then it can be about developing innovative applications for healthcare, food and health, climate or ICT. I do not want to say that this group of companies will develop less innovative applications without the international trading chamber, thereby making a less significant contribution to economic developments. That would be too short a turn. In some cases, however, this group of companies will be able to stay out of business for longer than these companies will be able to submit international trade disputes to an international trading chamber without too high a financial threshold. Madam President. I come to the subject of innovation in justice and the growing deficits. The Minister states in the reply that he considers it important that the case-law should be given the opportunity and scope to be innovative. I had to read this sentence a few times. Indeed, in recent years, justice has had plenty of room for innovation, and many attempts have been made to do so, but unfortunately so far it has been blocked. There are even sounds within the justice system that it would be better to stop the KEI pilots. In addition, the case law has to do with large deficits. At least, for the budget of justice, they are major deficits. Wouldn't it be better if the justice system were to put things in order first, reorganise its internal business processes and ensure that the budget was finalized? Wouldn't it be better for justice to put energy into it first, instead of putting it into the introduction of an international trading chamber? After all, the Dutch legal system has an excellently functioning Enterprise Chamber, for example in Amsterdam. The VVD likes to hear from the Minister how he feels about this. My group now takes account of the fact that the Minister will repeat what he has already written in his further reply, namely that the creation and operation of the NCCA require additional financial resources and that they should not be charged to the funds earmarked for regular cases. The parties are not obliged to obtain their right from the NCCA. No, probably not. What the members of the VVD Group question is that this additional provision is expensive for certain groups of companies, which will therefore pass the door of the NCCA. The fact that the Minister then refers for this group of companies to the European order for payment procedure, the European small claims procedure or a procedure in the ordinary Chamber of Commerce does not do justice to the needs of this group of companies. It is difficult for the court-seeking entrepreneur to explain that he has to pay €15,000 at first instance to submit an international dispute to the NCC, and €20,000 in appeal, where he has to pay almost €4,000 for the regular case law at most, or €5,000 in appeal. But that regular case law is not an option for his opposite party, because the threshold of the Dutch language must be reduced. This entrepreneur is left with a great sense of injustice. The judge who is his last resort has become unreachable. In addition, he is still at risk of being ordered to pay costs at the time he loses a procedure. How does the Minister view this? How does he weigh this? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Madam President. Then I come to the subject of costs. Offering an additional provision if the NCCA requires investments. These are one-off investments, such as the English-speaking ICT system, and structural investments, such as training costs for judges, counsellors and support staff. My group has read in the reply that the NCCA will use a separate digital system that has already been established on time and within the budget. The portal is or is already being tested technically and functionally. It is remarkable that the case law has already invested in a digital system while the relevant bill has not yet been dealt with in the Upper Chamber, let alone has been adopted. What has been the reason for the Minister to choose exactly this order? Did he assume that the First Chamber would agree in the first place? I'd like a response from the Minister. The VVD Group is also curious to know who has been responsible for the costs. Is that justice itself or the Ministry? The costs for the NCCA consist of one-off start-up costs of 3.8 million for the first ten years and €25,000 in regular costs for an average NCC case and €35,000 for an average NCCA case in apple. What part of this one-off start-up costs goes into the digital system? The members of the VVD Group further wonder whether the level of these costs justifies the introduction of cost-covering registry fees for the case-law. The members of the VVD Group would like to hear what the Minister thinks about this. After ten years, the Minister does not consider it unthinkable that the expected revenue from the Registry, EUR 4 million, is higher than the expected cost of EUR 3.4 million. In addition, the case law receives an annual contribution from the Ministry for the NCCA which is not based on the number of cases completed. It could also be the case that the Minister adjusts the level of the registry fees accordingly in the case of results which are not satisfactory or which are not satisfactory. Such a question has already been asked by the CDA Group, and in a slightly different way. I'd like a response from the Minister. And then there's another question: who's gonna man the international trading room? How often will the case-law appeal to judges-alternates? The government has indicated that the judges and counsellors do not need to be available full-time for the NCCA. The recruitment of judges also looked at extensive experience in international dispute resolution combined with excellent control of the English language. This can be demonstrated by work experience at an international and/or Anglo-Saxon law firm, the Minister writes. This passage also suggests to the members of the VVD Group that the NCCA is mainly set up for a particular group of companies, namely multinationals and other large, internationally operating companies. This group of companies calls on these law firms, unlike often SMEs. Is it possible that the NCCA will be manned by lawyers from international offices in the capacity of judge-alternate, who will also assist international companies? The VVD Group would like to hear the Minister's expectations on this point. And one last question about the cassation. The Minister has indicated that the international trading chamber is part of the Amsterdam court or the Amsterdam court. About court rulings, parties can go to the Supreme Court in cassation, but how does that work? Are the procedural documents translated into Dutch and then submitted to the Supreme Court or are procedural documents presented in English to the Supreme Court, who then pronounces in Dutch? I'd like a response from the Minister. Madam President. I'm rounding up. As has been said and known, the members of the VVD Group have difficulty in introducing cost-covering registry fees. That won't be new to the minister. The members of the VVD Group have previously expressed their concern in the further preliminary report that this could set a precedent for the introduction of cost-covering registry fees in other chambers. That concern has not been taken away by the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the time being. They also find it difficult for the international trading chambers to become accessible only to large companies and not to SMEs. The members of the VVD Group consider the introduction of the international trading chambers to be a sympathetic idea, as I have said before, but they also see difficulties in the present legislative proposal. The members of the VVD Group therefore look forward with more than average interest to the Minister's response and the answer to their questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u24	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mrs Andriessen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u25	Madam President, what could be the benefit of a Netherlands Commercial Court? That's the issue today. Madam President. We are proposed to agree to the adaptation of Article 30r to the Code of Civil Procedure. This opens up the possibility for the Netherlands to pass judgment on international trade disputes in English at the Amsterdam Court and Court of Justice. Many languages can be heard in the Netherlands on the streets. It's a nice pastime to guess where the speakers come from. Fortunately, there is one language in which we can all understand each other: English, Latin today. Many city dwellers work or study at organisations where English is the language. Even in public transport we are spoken in English. It is therefore not surprising that the case law is also increasingly confronted with English as a language of instruction. Knowers know that it is not unusual at the moment for disputes in commercial law to be fought in English. Documents may be written in English and pleadings may be made in English; only the judgment must be pronounced in Dutch. So this amendment of law is only about that verdict. My group wonders whether this little change will require a change in the law. Can this choice of language not be developed in practice? This will therefore give other sections of the case-law the opportunity to make use of this possibility. Already in 2002, the Scientific Council for Government Policy warned against the disappearance of Dutch law in international trade, as Anglo-American standards dominate competition between legal systems. The Court of Justice came with the same cry in 2015. Dutch parties increasingly opt for foreign commercial courts or international arbitration. As a result, there is a risk that Dutch legal concepts will lose their meaning and that law will apply in our country in which the Dutch legislator or the Dutch court has not played a role. We understand that this proposal stems from the need for action by the judiciary now. However, this plan will cost money. That has already been mentioned today. And that at a time when justice is in financial trouble. The money's out, access to justice for middle groups too expensive. The Minister found the following: cost-covering costs of the Registry. In this way, access to Dutch law will be possible for an additional fee. The losing party pays €15,000 at first instance and €20,000 on appeal for the willingness of the government to pass judgment in English. It's already been mentioned. That is why we are also being presented with an amendment to the Registry Law Act Civil Affairs; adding a table to Article 9a. Mr. Chairman. Following a heated discussion in the Second Chamber on registry rights, the Minister submitted two scenarios for a different classification of registry rights by letter of 15 November. His idea is that in the event of a dispute for a small financial amount, the Registry duty may be reduced and that this may be compensated by a dispute in order to increase the amount of the Registry duty. The highest registration fee is about €5,000. That's a thick 1,000 more than it is today, but it's still 10,000 lower than at the Commercial Court. However, in the world of international law, €15,000 is not much money. A trial in Singapore, Delaware or London is more expensive. That will therefore not be the problem for the warring parties. Moreover, according to plan, these are international companies and why should the Dutch taxpayer subsidise them? However, we are faced with another problem. The Minister departs from the Netherlands Registry Rights System. Hence our question as to whether it is possible to defend it from our legal system that costs should be covered in this case. Has this Minister been asked to turn to the principle of profit? Then why didn't he immediately, as a third scenario, take that into account in his letter to the House of Representatives? Mr. Chairman. Around the establishment of the Netherlands Commercial Court, there was not only surprise about the cost-covering system, but also the fear that large companies will contractually force smaller companies to settle disputes with the NCC. A smaller company will then have to pay the registry fee that it cannot afford. Therefore, a small or medium-sized enterprise may not dare to enter into a dispute. This would be an undesirable effect. It has been asked before, but this group also asks the Minister: assure us that this will not be the development! We'd like to hear how he opposes it. My group is not opposed to innovations when they lead to improvement. It is quite possible that the NCC is going to be such an improvement. But what about the rest of the justice system? At this time, when a rebellion seems to have broken out within the judiciary, in which the judges seem to be no longer able to handle the work and there is a desperate lack of money, there appears to be room for a new initiative such as the NCC. There's no way we can separate things from each other. It should not be the case that the Netherlands Commercial Court becomes a gold patch, while other wounds do not even have patches available. Part of the planned costs of the Registry are intended to cover the start-up costs. Work is already under way on the NCC from 2015. From that moment on, start-up costs have been incurred. Judges have been selected and trained. The digital courtroom in the IJdok is ready. Our group therefore considers that the proceeds from the costs of the Registry at the NCC will no longer be necessary to cover the start-up costs. In addition, we want to prevent the expected higher returns from giving priority to more lucrative things in Amsterdam. That is why we ask this Minister to make a commitment that, from the start, part of the Registry proceeds will be returned to the Council's general resources for the case-law, in order to cover the deficits incurred there. Let the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest loads. My group is looking forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Mrs Andriessen. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Although my group is not responsible for the establishment of an international trading chamber, it is concerned about the way in which the present legislative proposal gives substance to NCC and NCCA. Both Mrs Duthler and Mrs Wezel spoke in detail on a number of fundamental and practical concerns. My group is happy to agree with the contributions of both groups, and this is certainly true of the fundamental comments made and the questions raised about the introduction of the principle of profit into the case-law. I would like to address two important points for my group. This concerns, first of all, the registry rights. In response to questions in the Lower House, the government indicated that it places the NCC and NCCA within the framework of its policy to maintain a competitive establishment policy. Companies wishing to do so will be given the opportunity to submit disputes of an international nature, i.e. cross-border, to an international trading chamber. In doing so, the government stresses the freedom of choice of companies. They can use NCC and NCCA, but they don't have to. However, choosing NCC or NCCA means having to pay cost-covering registry fees, which are no less than four times higher than those of the regular trading chamber. €15,000, €20,000 respectively compared to €3.894, and €5.200 respectively. Companies that are unable to pay for this are unlucky and are not eligible for the full English-language legal process. This is a matter for the Members of my group and raises questions. What is the justification for these high amounts? Has the Minister considered applying the usual registry rights? If not, why not? How does the Minister assess access to justice as a result of this measure? Does he share the fear of my group that this will lead to legal inequality between those seeking justice who can pay it and those seeking justice who do not have sufficient resources to do so? If not, why not? In the written examination of the bill, the Minister explained that SMEs also often do international business and may have an interest in NCC or NCCA. At the same time, the Minister raises a high financial threshold. Or is his assumption that SMEs can bear these costs? The Government states that the introduction of cost-covering registry rights meets, on the one hand, the Council's wish to innovate in the case-law and, on the other hand, that the regular case-law is not charged with additional costs arising from the establishment of an international trading chamber. The latter seems to us to be justified. Financially, but also staff, justice is in an extremely serious situation. It is inconceivable that innovations such as NCC or NCCA can be paid out of their own budget. However, the Minister could also have chosen to make additional resources available to keep them in line with the existing principles and systems of the Registry Rights. Why didn't he? What does the choice of cost-covering Registry fees mean for future innovations within the case law that the Minister and this Chamber are in favour of? In the absence of financial resources, is there, in principle, the possibility of introducing cost-covering registry fees? From the written answer, my group understands that at present within Europe there is only the possibility of a full English-language process in the United Kingdom and Ireland and that some other countries are considering creating an international trading chamber. Has the Minister considered with this knowledge not to set up a NCC or NCCA for the time being because of the lack of resources for this purpose? Our second point concerns manslaughter. It was found within the jurisdiction itself. For the time being, a limited number of carefully selected judges and counsellors will start work. My group can imagine that parties wishing to make use of the English-speaking legal system and having to pay the full pound for it expect them to be served quickly. Do we see that right? This could result in companies and citizens having less access to the regular trading chamber. My group would consider that very undesirable. Can the Minister take away our concerns on this issue in a well-founded manner? I'm rounding up. My group sees the opportunities and opportunities offered by an international trading chamber, but has serious concerns about the way in which the Minister intends to implement them. We await the Minister's answers with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. As a sixth speaker, I can speak briefly. My group is not fundamentally opposed to an international trading chamber and therefore not against this initiative, but we do agree with the fundamental questions raised by various groups, in particular by the VVD. My group is concerned with the financing of this court, the rights of the Registry and the position of small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular the smaller businessman who is left behind. For the Group of the Christian Union, the system of cost-covering registry fees is a different system, different from the system of regular registry fees, which we consider to be an important asset. This creates the possibility for richer parties, for larger companies to achieve justice more efficiently and with fewer obstacles. That is a trend we would not want. I like to hear the Minister reflect on that. In fact, everything has already been mentioned, except for a small point. The Common Court of Justice of Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten, and the BES Islands, pronounces judgment in Dutch, whereas the majority of the inhabitants of these islands have English or Papiaments as their main language. Somehow that's hard on our sense of justice. We now say to companies: logically, you are internationally active, English is the language of instruction and we facilitate that. In view of the global market, all this is understandable, but citizens in our Kingdom cannot be given the judgment in their own language. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. He said a few things to the Council of State about this, which is more in line with the argument why the NCC could. But the other way around: look at these citizens in the overseas territories, as they used to be, but now independent countries with a common court. I'd like to hear from the minister about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-8.u31	Let us try to continue at around 4.30 p.m. instead of almost 4.40 p.m.
