ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the proposal for an own-initiative law on the adjustment of Member Van Rooijen's rate of discount. I would like to welcome the initiator and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. As you all know, we are due today for the second term of office. The second response will be scheduled at a later date. Your Members have changed a bit in the order of speakers. That means that Mr Omtzigt is the second speaker. Furthermore, I have agreed with some of you that we are going to try to leave it to two interruptions. They may then be in two or, as Mrs Van Brenk said, they may also be four of one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr Van der Linde has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u3	Mr. Chairman. Do I really only have one minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u4	I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u5	I'm just gonna try. We discussed Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal over a number of evenings. Let me once again express my appreciation for the energy he has put into this subject, of course with the support of professional K. What we once meant as solidarity between generations is degenerate into an almost hostile attitude between those generations. Older people who have not been indexed for years, at least not on the second pillar of their pension, versus young people who do not understand why they should get into a loss-making proposition and a pension system that has become so complicated that we only have angry people left. Last week we held an interesting round table with the spokesmen on the financial supervisory framework. Opinions differed widely there. What I heard there underlines once again the point that I have made several times in this debate: whether you opt for a pension system without buffers, where you can give out generously, but also give your pension participants great uncertainty or create buffers, which gives you that 97.5% security. On this point, the proposal for an initiative is really inadequate. We fizzle something under the hood so that in the short term we like the results for a limited number of participants, but we don't tell you that that 97.5% security will go away. I also did not receive an answer to the question about the margin of security which Mr Van Rooijen would like to use. This does not make the pension system more understandable or attractive, especially for young people. Mr. Chairman. The VVD will therefore not support the bill. Rather, we are now taking a step towards a pension system as set out in the government agreement, in which people have an insight into the assets that have been built up for them personally, without that silly average premium, which runs counter to any financial logic. Spring is only a few moments away and I continue to hope that the social partners will come up with something good in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u6	50PLUS doesn't fizzle anything under any carpet. I'm just confused because I hear a VVD talking about us wanting something with the whole pension system. Hopefully, at the VVD, it is becoming clear that this is a temporary measure on the ECB's buy-back policy. Something is being done to keep the arithmetic rate artificially low. This initiative proposal provides for this by adding 0.5%; very careful, very prudent. So not changing the whole system, but a temporary point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u7	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u8	Is the VVD aware that we are not talking about a system, but about a temporary initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u9	I understand that question very well, but the point is this: yes, interest rates are artificially kept low by the ECB's policies, but yes, that is then the reality with which the financial markets have to deal. We don't know how long that lasts. Then you can say: I only deny that reality for a moment and turn the button. That's what I'm talking about by "foezing under the hood." That all seems nice, but the bill will come sometime. We'll put that account somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u10	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the author very much for his comprehensive answer, in the first term and in writing, to the questions we have asked. He has a problem with the interest rate artificially kept low by the European Central Bank. As you know, we are really in favour of the ECB playing its core role again. We hope to find a majority in favour of this. The ECB's core role is to ensure price stability, not buy-up government bonds to lower interest rates. Moreover, the ECB may still fix low interest rates in the repurchase, but negative interest rates are not possible. The recent elections and the new government in Italy show that there are real risks to this policy, not only for pensioners, but also for the Dutch State. These risks are greater than for other European projects. However, the accounting rate is not a fictitious interest rate. It is in our system that pension funds receive actual interest on the government bonds and other bonds they hold in their portfolio. We have deliberately chosen to value all the assets of the pension funds at market value. That is why they have also increased so much in value... the market value of the bonds rose sharply when the interest rate fell. That is different from the old system, when we were still at the fixed interest rate. At the time you would choose to adjust the calculation rate, you should also release the market valuation of the assets. We understand how painful the reductions on pensions are, but last week's hearing made one thing clear: if you use the current contract, you have to use the current form of calculation rate. If you opt for a more insecure contract, where discounts will occur more often, you can also index earlier. But then discounts will also be more common. The problem is also so simply pushed back five years. Then you get the discount in one go. If a pension fund has to re-insure, cease to exist and its obligation has to buy from an insurer that has to do it at market value, 5% or 10% will have to be reduced in one go. In order to be prudent towards present and future generations, the CDA Group cannot support the present legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u12	Thanks to Mr Omtzigt. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator for answering the questions put. Once again, I would like to express my appreciation for the great work done by making and defending an initiative legislative proposal. Personally, I think it's one of the most beautiful roles you're allowed to play as a Member of Parliament. Mr Van Rooijen has a different approach to this debate, he knows that from me, but he has done it with conviction. I have great appreciation and admiration for that. Mr President, then the content. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, it is particularly important to take the step towards a new system, a system which does indeed have a different pension contract. If you have another pension contract, you can also work with different calculation rules. As far as I am concerned, this was an important outcome of the interesting round table that we held in the Chamber last week, jointly organised by Mr Van Rooijen. As long as you have the current contract, it fits that you work with a risk-free interest rate. That's unfortunate news. I get that. I would like it to be more beautiful, but doing something else does not fit that contract and would transfer too much risk to workers and young people. Mr Omtzigt, who had to leave the debate by now, rightly said that we are also working on both sides of the balance sheet with that market valuation. And many experts also said that low interest rates could last for a very long time. In the debate on the new pension system, too, we will have to take due account of how we deal with it. When it comes to this broader consideration, I agree with the answer that the Minister gave us as an advisor in the first term. I also hope, above all, that it will be possible to move quickly towards the new system. There's been a lot of talk about that. I recognize the call and the constant rush that Mr Van der Linde of the VVD felt, but the brooding chicken still has to breed. But I'm expecting a very nice egg by now. After all, doing nothing is not an option either. The average premium and another contract are really needed to get that almost baked-up generation conflict out of the current pension system. So I will also advise the D66 Group not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u14	Mrs. Van Brenn has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u15	Mr Omtzigt was very clear: the CDA accepts that ten million people are being cut short. I'd also like to hear that confirmation from D66. Does Mr Van Weyenberg accept this, and does he realise that this also has an impact on young people and on all those working?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u16	To begin with, this cabinet will of course always index the AOW. The previous Cabinets have done the same. That's very important. That's really the most important part of the pension for a lot of people. I think Mrs Van Brenk agrees with me. The question is how the levels of coverage will develop. I think we both hope that this very slow recovery will continue and that we will not end up in that world. That would be extremely annoying. In recent years, these new rules have prevented us from having to cut down. I sincerely hope, with Mrs Van Brenk, that this will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u17	It was a very clear response from Mr Borgdorff that that is really foreseen 2021. So hope, yes... If nothing happens, this is gonna play. And the question is whether you'll accept that and take it on your behalf, and so say to ten million people: we'll accept discounts, and you'll have to deal with them. You're talking about pensioners. We are also concerned about all those people who are currently working, who are also being cut short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u18	For starters, I really think we should be careful about scaring people now. I really mean that, I say to Mrs. Van Brenk. It's still a long way away. We both don't know Mrs Van Brenk and I don't know how we stand. Slowly but surely you see the coverage rate rise over the last two years. I hope that continues, because no one will cheer if you end up in that world. What I also hope is that we may even be in a transition phase to a new pension system. Moreover, I have already indicated that I would find it a very strange figure if funds that inevitably go into a new contract were to cut short the day before. However, this requires that we have already taken real steps towards this new pension system. But what you shouldn't do is change the rules of the game so that you already put workers and young people at a disadvantage. I'd like to avoid that, too. I see that the coverage rate in recent years is slowly recovering. And yes, we must stick to the rules of the game now, because with the same rules of the game, when the funds were in the red, fortunately we did not have to cut short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u19	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since our first round of discussions, pensions have been hot and up-to-date. Last week we held a nice round table in which we could ask experts. Unfortunately, the age of AOW seems to be going into tying in this debate, and that is a sad thing for us. As far as we are concerned, it is still about one isolated injustice that needs to be corrected, namely the interest rate. But the accounting rate is sacred, and the establishment has done its best to keep it that way. 50PLUS takes that out of the taboo sphere. Talking about changing the accounting rate for pension funds is more necessary than ever. Call MAX held a national pension debate and prepared a petition with five demands. It's a nice petition, but there's not a single word about the arithmetic rate. They would have done so knowingly, otherwise they would have belonged to a for- or a counter-camp. How bizarre. This interest rate strangles the members of the pension funds and ensures that no one is indexed, but we must not say anything about that. 50PLUS is refusing to do so. We're gonna fight like a donquixote. The European Central Bank has manipulated market interest rates with its buy-in programme; you have just heard. It has been shown that the full turn-on of the printing presses in Frankfurt has reduced interest rates by at least 0.7% to 1.5%. 50PLUS requests a temporary correction of 0.5%. How careful. However, it ensures that ten million people do not have to be cut when the pension reserve we have put together is greater than the total economy of Canada. Dear government parties, if you are seriously seeking support for the reform of the system, I would not start by allowing nonsense discounts. For then you can order the sweet peace together with your reform ambitions in advance on earth. We have an advisor in our midst who advises the Chamber. You understand that we cannot see this consultant as objective. We see a minister bursting with ambitions to tackle pensions, but threatening discounts are not enough if he wants to make the spirits ripe for change. We therefore hope for wisdom from our fellow Members, who have not only been told of 50PLUS, that poor calculation in pension countries has gone far too far. As Frijns, Teulings and De Jong put it strikingly last week, putting out 60 years of calculus pain in ten years' time is as ridiculous as it is unjust. We would like to conclude with Mr Borgdorff's warning that there should be an unconditional reduction in 2021, even if we have a coverage rate of more than 100% for pension funds. With that in mind, I hope colleagues will realise that if they may have to answer for their behaviour in a parliamentary inquiry in a number of years' time. I wish them a lot of wisdom, but we'd rather they used it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u21	There is an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u22	Quite apart from the fact that I find it a bit disgusting to pretend that people you disagree with are deliberately threatening with pension discounts. I think that a level that Mrs Van Brenk does not need is my question as follows. Mrs Van Brenn referred to Mr Teulings, but I heard him say very clearly that we need to change the pension contract. Does Mrs. Van Brenk agree with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u23	We are prepared to talk about everything, certainly about a new pension system, but at the moment we are only talking about one thing: a temporary correction of something that is now in danger of getting into serious problems. So as far as we are concerned, we want to talk about everything. That's what we want to talk about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u24	If my memory does not fail me, Mrs Van Brenk's party has tabled motions and supported that there should now be no coûte que coûte about the pension contract. This answer is therefore at least a profit, even if we disagree on the calculation rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u25	I'm glad D66 sees light. I hope that we can also see them in relation to this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u26	Thank you, Mrs Van Brenk. I call Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our pension system is not the problem. The mandatory arm has to calculate due to artificially low interest rates is the big problem. As I mentioned earlier, workers and pensioners must be freed from the stranglehold of interest on our pension funds. It is therefore necessary to introduce new rules on the SP, so that returns made by pension funds benefit workers and pensioners rather than being placed in the pot that already contains nearly EUR 1,400 billion. Thank you very much for the reply from the author. The supporters will also have played an important role in this: thank you for the many times you have spent in the proposal. As the petitioner knows, SP supports the purpose of this law. We shall also vote in favour. However, as the author also knows, we prefer a real solution, not only temporarily and aimed at preventing pension cuts, but also at allowing indexing. Others have already referred to the meeting we had recently. It was interrupted by a large group of people who chanted: indexing for each generation. In my view, this is also what is now a huge threat to pensions: that purchasing power is not maintained for now but also for the future. Some time ago I read the magazine Pension Interests, containing an interview with Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Van Weyenberg. Mr Van Weyenberg stated in that interview that "no one in the Chamber is happy with the fact that pension funds have been unable to index pensions for a long time." Those are wise words, but those who say a must also say b. The SP is very keen to help with this, namely to propose a solution to deal with the problem. Before that, the next motion. I have only borrowed your quote, your statement, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas no one in the Chamber is happy with the fact that pension funds cannot index;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possible changes in the rate of calculation and to assess the consequences thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34606-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u29	Thank you. I call Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u30	Mr. Chairman. We have before us Mr Van Rooijen's proposal from the 50PLUS Group to temporarily adjust the discount rate. If we want to assess that bill, then we can only broaden the discussion and think about and look at how the accounting rules for pension funds are currently in place. So I would like to say a few things about that and then come to my conclusion on the legislative proposal. We spoke to a lot of experts last Thursday. A number of insights emerged. I'd like to share those insights here. First of all, the discussion about the calculation rate is not as black and white as it has been described so far. The use of risk-free market interest rates as an accounting rate is not the only logical solution. There are very different views by experts. Of course, a prudent estimate of expected return is wise........................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, we pretend that pension funds only invest in government bonds. That is not the case. It would also be very unwise for them to do so. One of the great merits of the 50PLUS group is that this discussion is now firmly on the retina and is politicised here in the Chamber. I congratulate them on that. That is quite a thing, because until recently it was almost a no-goarea, a kind of topic you were not allowed to touch, because then you were already extremely irresponsible in advance, and that is not the case. The second insight that we received last Thursday is that there is a lot to be said about the financial review framework as a whole, the set of rules of the game; not only the calculation rate but also matters around the coverage levels. Why do we apply 104% coverage if we can also meet all the obligations by 100% and which had already been calculated with extremely safe principles? That's a question we can ask ourselves. What will go wrong if we do not stack all these securities together, as Mr Borgdorff said very well, but ensure sufficient security and not an excess of security? We need to think about that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u31	Many of these experts actually made the link to the pension contract, but perhaps Mr Grashoff will come to that. I have a question about the 104%. You can indeed do that, but these measures in the review framework partly stem from the fact that, on the other hand, the same rules state that, even if the level of coverage is below 100%, you do not have to cut. You'll have a few years. So these things are in balance, so that it is balanced on balance for generations. Mr Grashoff says: now that the weather is improving, perhaps we can reduce that minimum required power to 100. Does he want you to lower your coverage in bad times at the same time or does he just want to do one of the two?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u32	What I am on my way to in my speech is that you must continue to look at that total of criteria in their interlinkage. In that sense, Mr Van Weyenberg has a point. By the way, nothing but the point that I have also raised from the outset: keep seeing it in its interconnectedness. However, it is true that the impression we have made on the basis of the views of these experts is that we have added too much security to each other at the moment. That means we have to look at the system again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u33	I'd say so. Almost all these experts also made a link to the contract. Mr Grashoff has a few specific points on the matter. We'll talk about that later. You have to calculate very carefully as long as you work with the current contract. If you want to get rid of that, you have to go to another type of contract. Then we can also differ on the form, but is that the coherence that Mr Grashoff referred to when he just used the word'system', or did he mean by that the current ftk? I want to understand him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u34	Mr Van Weyenberg is quite eager in his interruptions, which makes it difficult to build up my story and get to the various points, but I will answer his question. Yeah, there's a relationship with the contract form. At the same time, however, it has become clear from the same expert meeting that this relationship with this form of contract is not as strong as we might have thought with each other, if only because the Pension Act simply does not contain the nominal guarantee. It is therefore, in part, a construct which has been put together in this way, and then an extremely strict rule on the return on a pension fund. This means that, regardless of changes to the system, there is still reason to look critically at the system. However, I acknowledge from the outset, together with Mr Van Weyenberg, that there is a relationship with the form of contract. I've said that before. Mr. Chairman. My third point has also been raised. That's a little bit of a change of direction. That is the question of the low level of premium coverage. This is particularly highlighted by De Nederlandsche Bank as an important risk point. And there is a point, because if you assume that at the moment the total of the financial review framework with the use of risk-free interest rates is the right basis to deal with the levels of cover, and at the same time we would say that the premium is based on a much higher return and that this can also be translated into lower premiums, then the combination of those two is in any case not in order. Where the ultimate truth lies, I will not be able to comment on that at the moment. That will require more study. I'll get back to you on that. In any case, we must also take that aspect into account. It is all the more a plea to look at the overall FK, the coherence of the different indicators and criteria, and not now to say 'it is good as it is'. The evaluation of the FK was therefore too narrow for us. There should be an evaluation which examines precisely this kind of coherence of criteria, including, as far as I am concerned, a relationship with any changes to the contract, but also without any changes to the contract, to see if this is the right thing to do. Can we combine measures so that, on the one hand, we remain very cautious and, on the other hand, we do not build up certainty that will ultimately benefit neither young nor old? However, the non-indexation of pensions also means the non-indexation of the pension structure of the active participants. So it's always framing like a generational conflict is something we have to stop. This approach is, if in the end too much money is taken to the future, neither for the young nor for the old generation a point of profit. We really need to think about that with each other. Counting your empire isn't good. Calculating your arm is bad for all generations, too. Mr President, finally, the opinion on the 50PLUS bill. We have to note from the Green Left Group that the problem is broader, we have to note that we have said from the outset that we want a structural solution to this and we have to note that the 50PLUS solution, however sympathetic, is a temporary solution for one aspect. With this it does not make the patchwork of the ftk smaller and not clearer, but leaves it in place. We think that we are doing wisely to continue the discussion with strength and, instead of adopting this bill now, to conduct the discussion on the FTC, in conjunction with a new system, but also independently of any new system. Therefore, we are not going to support the 50PLUS proposal, but we are very much in favour of the initiators and the debate they have provoked. I'd like to conclude with a motion. Can I still do that? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Court considers it very important that we do not count ourselves rich and poor in relation to the financial position of pension funds;]] [[Whereas the financial review framework is now a complex set of criteria, such as the minimum required own funds (MVEV), the required own funds (VEV), the discount rate to be used and calculation rate systems, the recovery periods and the rules on premium coverage;]] [[Whereas, on the one hand, there is a accumulation of collateral and, on the other hand, an incentive to establish non-cost-covering premiums;]] [[Whereas it cannot be separated from the debate on the nature of the pension contract, but will nevertheless continue to play a role in other forms of contract;]] [[calls on the Government to have the financial review framework further evaluated by a committee of experts from the pension world, social partners and science, and to propose options for possible adjustments to the pension system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34606-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the author very much, because we have had an extensive first term by Mr Van Rooijen. I would also like to thank his advisers, of course. This soon led to a broader debate on pensions, i.e. the type of contract. I also said in my first term that we have the same concerns as 50PLUS and several parties in this Chamber. The fact that we designed and created together at the time is nothing more than a number of intermediate rules, including to deal with the first serious blows of the financial crisis. At the time, the Labour Party and several parties said that we must move towards a truly future-proof pension contract. Mr Van Rooijen and I are also going back a little longer. That is what I said in my first term. In 2013 we said together with the trade union movement, employers and youth and elderly organisations that it is time for a future-proof contract. That wasn't the recovery operation ftk. We all know that. Now that we hope that there will be a truly future-proof system from the social partners, it is quite right that we should be able to have this debate with each other. You will hear from me, as I said in the first term, that we as the Labour Party do not now support an interim adjustment in the current financial situation, because we are very much in favour of a future-proof contract, whereby we can invest in the long term, giving the funds more scope and using other accounting rules. There were different opinions in the hearing last Thursday and it has been said several times, but this was the general line of many experts. They said: this contract builds security on security, it is not future-proof; please go to that new contract. We may differ on the form of "shape" which will certainly do so, but we will have to get rid of the nominal character in the current ftk, with the necessary consequences for the participants at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u36	I'm surprised about this, and why? As I indicated in the first term of the Chamber, the debate is about just about everything, except Mr Van Rooijen's proposal and 50PLUS. The only thing Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS tried to do with his own initiative proposal is to avoid discounts for millions of people. If we accept that as a Chamber, that means that a solution can be found very quickly for many people. Why doesn't the Labour Party say: despite the fact that I may have a different route towards my final goal, this could make a lot of difference to millions of people? So they don't need to be cut anymore. Why doesn't the Labour Party just seize that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u37	Mr De Jong rightly points out concerns about discounts that may be coming. This will depend on the development of the funds over the next few years. But I would like to draw Mr De Jong's attention to other possibilities. I said the same thing in my first term. I also exchanged this with the petitioner Van Rooijen. I don't think it's okay for you to be in a nominal contract with the accounting rules. That's what I need the other type of contract for. But what I can imagine is that if it turns out that funds are on the brink of a massive reduction, you are going to look at the distribution, for example. That has been discussed in the Chamber before. It wasn't necessary at the time, but in 2015, 2016 it was already on the table to avoid that big blow of discounts. I am certainly prepared to do so, because that also fits in with the current ftk, which is already spreading and offers this kind of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u38	We all know how it works. The list of debates is immense. We do not often have the opportunity to use a solution such as it may be, to prevent a reduction in pensions for millions of people. Of course you could seize all kinds of other possibilities, but they are not there. There are no other options at present than the Van Rooijen proposal, which is now before us. Then why doesn't the Labour Party choose to say: okay, I have other solutions, but we have so little time, we're just gonna do this now and we're gonna come up with our own proposals later? Why not just support Van Rooijen's proposal to avoid short-term discounts? Isn't it incomprehensible that you're not taking advantage of that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u39	Your question is clear. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u40	I do not agree with Mr De Jong. I'm gonna repeat myself: if you're gonna follow the accounting rules in the nominal contract, you're gonna have to go to another contract. That is the fundamental discussion that we have logically on the proposal of 50PLUS, because, according to the experts, this is actually the real way forward. Those discounts aren't there yet. We have to wait and see what's going on. If we see that funds are to be cut by then, then the current Ftk offers more opportunities, which we, as a Chamber with an initiative...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u41	I would indeed like to know whether the PvdA is fully aware of what Mr Borgdorff of Pension Fund Zorg en Welzijn says: it is really coming. We're very worried about that. Ten million people could be threatened with that. I am glad that the Labour Party says: it is our concern too. But if you go to another contract, it takes a lot of time. That's not a switch. So the question is: what will the PvdA do to reassure those ten million people that they will not be cut short?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u42	Unfortunately, that is not in my hand, but I am also pleased that it is currently in the hands of trade unions and employers. I hope for a proposal from the social partners to give us that future contract, and then we can talk about it in the Chamber. Mrs Van Brenk is, of course, right: there is a need for legislation, or I know a lot about it. But then you also get into the following dynamics, because that's how politics works: if there's a perspective, you can start to see how we get from the one situation, which is now worrying, into a new situation. Moreover, in a new contract there is also a possibility or risk of discounts that will be so in each contract. We cannot avoid that at once by jumping into a new contract. I would like to walk that route, but that is not entirely in our hands at the moment. If it all fails, and we are really going to get those threatening discounts together, as Mr Borgdorff says, then I think you should seize the possibilities of the current ftk. There are those possibilities; of course they are not endless, but there are. It was discussed earlier in the Chamber, then with Secretary of State Jetta Klijnsma. But I don't want to take a step forward now, especially when I want to move forward. I don't want to change an ftk right now while I want a new pension contract. That is why we will not support the proposal, but we do appreciate Mr Van Rooijen's commitment. I also hope that he and I will find each other in the debates in the coming period, in the idea that we should, in particular, bridge the gap with young people's parties, the social partners and the elderly, and, of course, the political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u43	Thank you. Finally, Mr De Jong has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u44	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank 50PLUS, Mr Van Rooijen and his team, for the initiative ahead. And why do I want to thank him for that? This proposal is an attempt to prevent millions of people who are now in danger of getting a discount on their pensions from actually being cut short. It's a temporary proposal. It is intended to ensure that pension funds get a little more air and that ultimately people get a little more air. Look at recent years and the coming years in terms of indexing and threatening discounts; it is quite a lot. In the meantime, the debate we are having is about everything, except Mr Van Rooijen's proposal. Mr Van Rooijen and his team did not deserve that at all. I think we should, of course, talk about the future-proofing of the current system, but we have other debates for that. There are other times for talking about that. What bothers me about this whole process that we have had with the initiative is that it has been pushed one way, and the Minister has also given us a nice hand in doing so, in which you knew in advance that this proposal would never make it. Things have been added that have nothing to do with this proposal. Nevertheless, our group will express its support, as we did in the first term. We'll hold on to that today. This will also come to the fore in the vote. As a PVV, we believe that we should seize any opportunity to prevent reductions in pensions. As you know, we are not in favour of a transition to a new system, but of improving the current system, where necessary, and of ensuring that discounts are avoided and that indexation is made possible. When it comes to making the current system future-proof, this is in line with that. I regret that it was not enough. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u45	Thank you to Mr De Jong. That brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-25.u46	The second term from the initiator's side will be scheduled at a later date. Then there will also be an assessment of the two motions tabled. I thank the initiator and the Minister.
