ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Medical Care. He replaces the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The tobacco industry is a sneaky industry, a dirty industry. As everyone knows, smoking is deadly. It's cause of death number one among young Dutchmen. Nevertheless, the tobacco industry is trying to do everything it can to get and keep people smoking. Cigarette tests are being faked. Cigarette suits are beautifully designed. Cigarettes get flavored. Cigarettes get blind advertising in a lot of commercials. One's death is the other's bread literally. As if that weren't enough, yesterday we read in the news that the tobacco industry would give tobacco companies illegal bonuses. It's bribes that can lead to people's deaths. A tour of tobacco shops shows that tobacco manufacturers would give sellers a bonus if they sold enough cigarettes. A spokesperson of the Dutch Food and War Authority states that, if this is true, this would be against the law. There would be illegal sponsorship. Any financial bonus that directly or indirectly stimulates the sale is prohibited under the law. The Association of Cigarettes reports that it is unable to confirm or contradict messages. The tobacco industry, of course, denies in all keys that something illegal is going on. I have the following questions to the Minister. Does the Minister share the concerns about the coverage? Can the Minister indicate at the moment whether there is any illegal activity? Is the Minister prepared to have an extensive investigation conducted to find out if there is illegal sponsorship? How does the Minister prevent contracts from being concluded leading to illegal sponsorship? Does the Minister share that this is completely undesirable, even if it is not illegal? Is he willing to keep the law under review to see if there is a need for a change of law in order to act better?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, I share the concerns of the speaker about avoiding advertising and sponsorship policies. A little more concrete: illegal bonuses are not allowed in the title of the article to which Mr Öztürk refers. The Netherlands has a strict advertising and sponsorship ban. Tobacco shops are allowed to advertise, but within the shop and through the façade. An additional financial bonus related to sales of tobacco and related products is not allowed under the sponsorship ban. The article to which the speaker refers suggests that specialty stores are encouraged by a bonus and an instruction to promote a particular brand. It's against the law. You know that this policy is the responsibility of the Secretary of State. He asked the NVWA to investigate the signals and inform him about the results. I come to Mr Öztürk's questions. Do I share the concerns? Yes. Is there any illegal activity? To clarify this: if it is a sales bonus, it is contrary to the sponsor policy. The investigation requested by the speaker has already been ordered by the State Secretary. How do you avoid avoiding or avoiding the sponsor ban in the future? I think that, on the basis of the research carried out by the NVWA and about which there is a little more to tell at the end of this year, we can better see how we can prevent this kind of thing. It's completely clear that it's undesirable. If a change of law is necessary, for example because the regulation is unclear, I believe that this change of law is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Minister comes up with answers that we and I believe many people in the country would have expected from him. It remains for me to ask when you expect the outcome of the investigation. Are you also going to analyse whether the legal means are sufficient to deal with this type of practice? Is the Minister prepared to report the tobacco manufacturers, as the municipality of Amsterdam has done, because of these illegal practices? And is the Minister prepared to tackle this problem at European level in order to stop this type of practice in other countries as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	The question of "when" I have just answered: at the end of this year the NVWA expects to be able to tell us something. Then we'll forward those tracks to the Chamber. I would believe that the NVWA's investigation should also give us a handle on solutions, including to see whether the legal instruments are adequate and, if not, what we should do about them. I don't think this is the stage to press charges. I think that we should first look at the results of the research already commissioned by the NVWA. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. So that's already being done. A lot of attention is paid to all kinds of sponsorship policies. In fact, the Dutch legislation is, to a large extent, a translation of European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	There's only one question left for me. I asked what would happen if illegal practices were involved. The municipality of Amsterdam has supported a declaration showing that it wants to stand up for the citizens of Amsterdam and to make smoking happen as little as possible. If research shows that there are illegal practices after all, are you prepared to support a declaration against tobacco manufacturers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	That's a step too far for me right now. The question is whether sponsoring is prohibited in the present situation or whether it is permitted for advertising fees. That is what you need to find out first, and you need to know exactly before you can conclude that there are illegal practices. An example such as that of Amsterdam will be discussed by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. That's what brought us to the end... No, not yet!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	I have one more question. If it is clear that tobacco manufacturers are handing out illegal sales bonuses, is there the possibility of imposing fines and is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	Absolutely. Well, that's a job for the NVWA. That's the one that's gonna charge the fines. You can do that now. If there is an illegal practice, a fine can be imposed. I was expecting that question, so I made a quick call: what is the highest fine you could then impose? That's about $450,000. That's real money, I'd say. Then it must have been found repeatedly, but then you can hand out quite a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	This has been revealed by investigative journalists of the Dutch Journal of Medicine. This is now coming up as some kind of random hit. To what extent is there continuous monitoring of such practices?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	The NVWA mainly operates on the basis of signals and notifications. Sometimes signals and reports can also come from their own research. As a matter of fact, yesterday we discussed another subject, in which the NVWA also plays an important role. Then it became clear to me that the NVWA receives more than 20,000 reports every year, in all shapes and sizes. That is what we depend on. It also happens a lot that citizens, for example, come forward. In this case, it was a investigative journalist who wrote that article. But it is increasingly citizens who ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. Around 3 p.m. we are going to vote, so I shall suspend the sitting until then.
