ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the BIG Act on improvements to disciplinary law and improvements to the functioning of the law (34629). We have six participants on the side of the Chamber. The Minister of Medical Care is still with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	I would like to give the floor to the first speaker from the Chamber, Mr Hijink of the SP Group. He's gonna talk to us for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Amendment of the BIG Act, the Law on Occupations in Individual Healthcare. This law strengthens disciplinary law and gives more opportunities to address health care professionals who are seriously dysfunctional. Patients should be able to rely on good quality and safe care. Every day we see carers doing everything they can to give their patients the best care, whether in hospitals, nursing or youth care. At the same time, mistakes are made where people work. After all, nothing human is a caregiver strange. That is why disciplinary law has been introduced. Disciplinary law is aimed at checking the quality of a health care professional's actions. It is seen as a correction tool to prevent repetition of wrong actions. Some people fear that with the change we are discussing today, disciplinary law is moving further towards criminal law, which is aimed at penalties. Several responses to the draft legislative proposal warn of this development. With too much atonement, disciplinary law loses its function, namely to monitor the quality of professional practice. At the same time, the law provides for a need, not only to learn from mistakes made, but also to intervene quickly when mistakes have been made. For the SP, it is important that the criminal law approach is used only for healthcare professionals who have been severely overstepped. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen enough situations where criminal law is needed. Take the infamous breast doctor of the City Clinic in The Hague, a gynecologist who seriously mutilated 121 women, or the case against Jansen Steur, an addicted doctor who made many wrong diagnoses with all the consequences. Mr. Chairman. One of the aims of the Amendment of the BIG Act is to improve the recognition of BIG registered healthcare providers, so that people who need care can check that a healthcare professional meets the requirements of the BIG registry. It is compared in law to the KvK number, the number of the Chamber of Commerce, which we know from companies. The SP considers the openness and accessibility of the BIG register to be very good, but I think everyone understands that someone who is on the way to the hospital in an ambulance is not going to visit doctors and nurses in the register first to see if they are competent and competent. So the question is to what extent you can place the responsibility on the patient to determine whether a healthcare professional is actually competent and competent. All patients should be able to rely on good care. First of all, you need to be sure that everything is done to prevent mistakes. This law wants tougher measures to tackle severely dysfunctional caregivers. That is very good, but the law is not yet focused on preventing abuses. Can the Minister respond to that? To what extent does this law contribute to preventing serious errors? So I am not talking about the good and well-educated doctor who makes a mistake once, but about the real quacks, the people who pretend to be able to cure people and who perform activities that they are not competent to do. Fortunately, natural healer Patrik Beaumont is monitored by the inspection. This man brought in IVs he wasn't allowed to insert. Mr. is messing with weird devices, ointments and dusts that don't have any scientific basis. Unfortunately, the Internet is full of examples of people pretending to be able to cure others, often without BIG registration. For example, take the The Hague breast doctor, who told his patients that he was super famous in America, while eventually he seriously mutilated 121 women. He could actually start a private clinic and go ahead. Can the Minister respond to this? How is it that such a fucked-up person can start their own private clinic? And can the Minister indicate how he thinks this kind of abuses can be prevented if we know that inspection supervision is only carried out on a random basis? Mr. Chairman. A disciplinary judge cannot judge caregivers who are not registered in the BIG register. Can the Minister state clearly which professions are currently required to make a statement on behaviour? Is it true that this applies only to long-term care, youth care and inpatient mental health care? Would it not be logical that people who provide care or support to people at home should be able to hand over a vog, for example, to prevent people convicted of theft from making mistakes again, or that vulnerable elderly people become victims of abuse or abuse? The Minister replied in the written round of questions that a general obligation on a large amount of costs and administrative burdens does not in all cases outweigh the importance of providing good care. Can the Minister explain exactly what he means by this? Does this additional cost not include an additional guarantee for people that the caregiver has not recently committed criminal offences in the home or in an institution? Those two cases should be weighed against each other. The amendment regulates a burden of immediate abstinence from professional activities, a LOB as called in the jargon. With an LOB, the inspection can force someone to do their job even before a disciplinary judge has tested his actions. If the inspection so requires, it must submit the case to the disciplinary judge within eight weeks. But what if the case turns out to be unfounded? Will the healthcare provider then be compensated for income and rehabilitation? It's a rather drastic measure. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether the law will also provide for compensatory measures. Can the Minister clarify to what extent these proposed measures in disciplinary law are going to prevent the passage into criminal law? Is this gonna happen? Is that desirable, too? Where exactly is the distinction? The breast doctor and Jansen Steur have both been dealt with through criminal law. That possibility was already there, but what is fundamentally changing with the introduction of the LOB? Can intervention be taken earlier, for example? That would be very good, of course. What exactly is the difference? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. The question is also where the difference is now with the de-activating of caregivers, which can be done now. Of course, the inspection already has that possibility. Can the Minister clearly indicate the difference between the new LOB to be introduced and the decommissioning of healthcare professionals, which can already be done by the inspection? Speaking of inspection, there are still concerns about that. This change of law will increase the role of the inspection, but the question is, of course, whether it is equipped to do so. Is there sufficient capacity and staff? Has the inspection responded to the present proposal and is it aware of these new tasks? Next, I would like to say a few words about cosmetic treatments. The present legislative proposal also provides for cosmetic treatments to be covered by the BIG. The SP Group is very much in favour of this, because people other than those who are authorised to do so under the BIG Act are not allowed to carry out these actions. Can the Minister make it clear again how many people now give cosmetic treatments to people who are not BIG registered? Can the Minister make this clear with concrete examples? What does this change of law mean for this group of people? Mr. Chairman. In preparing the treatment of this law, the SP expressed concerns about the amendment concerning UR medicinal products. At present, these medicines are prescribed by the healthcare professional responsible, but with the amendment of the law this does not apply if the dosage of medicinal products needs to be adjusted. Workers are allowed to do so under strict protocols, but the competent health care provider remains responsible. We still find it difficult to understand this distinction. The Minister indicated that this was unclear within the profession, but why was it not chosen to make the health care provider responsible as a whole? Distinctive tasks are fragmented, which can eventually lead to errors in the transfer. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Two years ago we were shocked by the phenomenon of silent contracts in health care, partly brought to light by my colleague Henk van Gerven. Survivors or the patient himself are prohibited by contract to tell their story about a medical failure. This phenomenon has been strongly condemned, both by the Chamber and by the Minister. It's bad for the patient or the family to keep a case under control. It is also bad for the quality of care. Can the Minister state what the state of play is on this issue? Are non-disclosure contracts all in the past or are they still in the past? Mr. Chairman. Finally, another point of principle. The SP mentioned it already in the written preparation of this law. In our view, the introduction of registry fees for access to disciplinary law is unwise. The Minister wants to introduce registry fees to avoid bagging charges. But it is precisely by making the President's decision and introducing the Disciplinary Officers that we can avoid bagging complaints. We therefore wholeheartedly support these proposals. But why do you still have registry rights? Why introduce a threshold if thresholds are removed in other respects? As far as the SP is concerned, it should never be the case that patients who want to lodge a complaint should be silenced. A complaint is an expression of impotence, because patients feel inadequate and want to be heard. And no matter how small that complaint, it should always be taken seriously. Surely, given the role of disciplinary law, which is to improve the quality of professional practice, there is no need to be afraid of the number of complaints submitted. Is it therefore desirable that some of these complaints should perhaps never be brought to the Disciplinary Board because of financial reasons and because the complaint is swallowed? That seems to us to be very undesirable. The SP agrees with KNMG's criticism that the law of registry does not fit the purpose of disciplinary law in order to learn in the interests of the patient and to learn in the interests of health care. We would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to delete the proposal for registry rights from this bill. If he is kind enough to do so, then we can withdraw the amendment we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr De Lange from the VVD group. He has 15 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, you have to be able to trust that the care is good, that you can trust your healthcare provider and that he or she is competent. Fortunately, this is almost always the case in the Netherlands. In the interests of the patient, it should be possible to intervene within the care when mistakes are made. Take the example of UMC Utrecht with Adrienne Cullen. Due to a serious medical error of the UMCU, she is now incurably ill. She's even offered a silent contract. Mr. Chairman. This is, of course, unacceptable. Fortunately, the UMCU felt the same way. Last week was the first Adrienne Cullen lecture in which she told the honest story together with her doctor. What is central to the VVD is being open and transparent about medical errors. By making this self-negotiable, there is room to learn from it and prevent it in the future. Caregivers who behave like charlatans need to be addressed. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Good and safe care is the norm according to the VVD. She therefore also supports this tightening up of the BIG Act, because caregivers who, during a suspension, simply continue to work, circumvent the disclosure of disciplinary rules, or possess child pornography, can't do that. The VVD therefore welcomes the introduction of the burden of immediate abstinence from professional activities. This will allow the inspection to intervene immediately if necessary. A good new instrument. Mr. Chairman. The trust to your health care provider begins with the first call. You don't feel well or there's something going on, and you just want to be able to talk about it in Dutch and have a good and understandable conversation with each other. As of 1 January 2017, the language requirement is mandatory for healthcare professionals, but I get signals that this does not always work out well in practice. Does the Minister recognise this image and, if so, how will he guarantee this language requirement in practice? In what way does the inspection now maintain this? Open communication and transparency also lead to trust. The VVD therefore welcomes the mandatory reporting of the BIG-number. This makes it easier to find caregivers in the register. It could all be a little easier. You now have to click six times to get a PDF file and see if anyone has been imposed a measure or a limitation of jurisdiction. Does the Minister agree with me that it would be nice if you could find all the information on a health care provider on one site? Now you have, for example, Care Card, ChooseBeter and the BIG registry. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with interested parties how this can be achieved? Mr. Chairman. Victims of medical misses often feel lonely in their fight against the hospital or the treating doctor. The lack of openness about what has happened and the lack of clear communication do not make that better. You don't want to get caught in a legal dark forest full of thresholds and difficult forms. The VVD believes that you should be able to make an accessible complaint and receive the right support from an independent party. Disciplinary officers can play an important role in this. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees the role and commitment of this new official and how the complainants can find these people more easily, so that they can see something concrete about this measure. Does he agree with me that complainants should be supported in their search for the right course of justice and the right legal body? All this with the aim of strengthening the victim's position in already difficult times. Another point I would like to raise is cosmetic actions. In the previous cabinet period, I have already made it clear that IPL and laser treatments will also be covered by reserved actions. That will also be the case, but the technique continues at a rapid pace. I want to ensure that new methods, which also penetrate under the skin, are carried out by skilled people and that these new methods are included in the BIG II bill, which is still going to come to the Chamber. In this way, the law will be prevented from being re-adapted in a year's time by, for example, the application of plasma therapy and ultrasound. Does the Minister share this view? Is he prepared to include a definition in the bill for all electronic devices covered by the reserved act in such a way that this technology proof is for the future? Mr President, my final point. We need people who want to work in care. New caregivers should therefore be able to get to work quickly, but at the moment the BIG registration takes eight weeks to register a qualified healthcare professional. Registered nurses may perform a number of reserved operations functionally independently. This means that no supervision or intervention by an independent doctor is required. If you are not yet registered in the BIG register, this will work differently. These nurses may do the same reserved act, but on order. In doing so, the supervision and intervention of the client, often the doctor, must be ensured. This monitoring is a time-consuming operation, which also involves additional administration. I think we should be able to rely on qualified nurses being well trained for these actions. But now healthcare institutions often place qualified nurses in the system as "caregiver" or decide not to hire them at all. Isn't that a shame when we look at the labour market? Don't we make the process of BIG registration unnecessarily cumbersome? According to the VVD, the solution is to see if you could make this easier. As the Health and Youth Inspectorate, for example, is currently doing with the contact title, graduates should also be able to be referred to as fully-fledged nurse in registration during registration and thus simply get to work. That is why I ask the Minister whether registration can't be simpler, because it will allow people to get to work faster in healthcare. How is the Minister going to make it possible for qualified healthcare professionals to do so directly? Mr President, I will conclude. The BIG Act monitors and promotes the quality of professionals and protects the patient against improper and careless behaviour. The tightening of the BIG Law on Disciplinary Law is therefore good, but there remains room for improvement. One thing for the VVD is clear: our care must be safe and reliable. We do this by dealing with wrong care providers and standing in front of the patient, but also in the interest of all those people who work hard in our good Dutch healthcare system, by learning from the mistakes and healthcare institutions themselves to take responsibility if things go wrong, and then communicate actively and clearly about it themselves. The honest, frank reading of Adrienne Cullen is a good example of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you. Then Mrs Ellemeet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Law on Occupations in Individual Healthcare, the BIG Act. The law regulates a number of improvements on disciplinary law and it is good that these improvements are being made as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Care must be of good quality and, if it is not, we must be able to take good action. GroenLinks attaches importance to the fact that the patient is well informed about all the possibilities around these measures, that the healthcare professional can do his job well and that the inspection can check for quality. My colleague De Lange from the VVD also mentioned what happened last Friday at the UMC Utrecht. That was very special. There, a doctor and a patient told their story about a doctor's medical failure. This doctor had missed a diagnosis, which made it much too late for the woman to find that she had metastatic cervical cancer, a terrible failure. But what was worse, if possible, was the initial lack of compassion from the hospital. For years there was no empathy, no transparency and hardly any communication. But last Friday, this doctor and patient told their story in front of a full lecture hall, so that as many others as possible could learn from it. A unique meeting that the UMC Utrecht now organises every year. Mr. Chairman. I'm telling this story because it's so important that medical misses are handled properly. Every human being makes mistakes, but mistakes in health care can have huge consequences. That's what makes it so sensitive. It is all the more important to be able to talk about it in public, so that it can also be learned from it. And that's still quite difficult, because we don't have that culture anywhere. In this context, I also understand KNMG's objection to always making public non-professional restrictive measures. An advertisement without any information does indeed provide little information for the patient. The question is whether this will ultimately help doctors to talk more openly about medical misses. The example from the UMC Utrecht shows that there are also ways to bring out errors that both the patient, as well as the doctor, and the hospital get along with. How can the Minister promote such initiatives, I ask him. What does he think of the possibility of making public an option rather than an obligation? Mr. Chairman. I also have a few questions about the disciplinary officer. I think it can have an important function if people are considering filing a complaint. The filing of a disciplinary complaint is not easy either, in fact, but also emotional. The disciplinary officer is only there for the actual part, but where can patients go for emotional support? Can independent customer supporters, for example, play a role in this? From the Minister's previous answers, you might find that the disciplinary officer is primarily intended to prevent disciplinary complaints, but that does not necessarily seem to me to be the intention. Did I misinterpret the minister here? And how are people gonna know there's a disciplinary officer? What does the Minister intend to do when it comes to information? Mr. Chairman. I am also concerned about the introduction of registry law. I can imagine that this should prevent disciplinary colleges from dealing with grievances, but on the other hand, disciplinary law should remain open to everyone. I find the Minister's answer to the written questions on this a little lean. He states that the complainant can report a relevant complaint to the inspection or to the Dutch National Health Information Point, but what does that mean? Then who is going to determine whether the complaint is indeed relevant? And if that's the case, doesn't anyone really have to pay a registry fee? Mr. Chairman. This change in the law contributes to better and harder treatment of dysfunctional caregivers. That is necessary and important. At the same time, I hope that those involved will be able to remain in dialogue, as was so beautifully done last week. Because making a mistake is bad, but not learning from it is much worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u8	A question from Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mrs Ellemeet points out that she wonders why disclosure could no longer be optional or at least be non-compulsory. I also mentioned the case of UMC Utrecht, because I think it is a good example. But after there has been a long way, it is of course an example that things have not gone well, for example the contract of silence. On the other hand there is also a track record that at least this hospital has not been very clear in the communication. It is therefore very good at times that there is a stick behind the door, an obligation to get things that have gone wrong properly registered. Don't you think that if you make it too noncommittal, parties that aren't willing to get away with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr De Lange presents a dilemma which I share. On the one hand, you want a stick behind the door. We have indeed seen that Utrecht took far and far too long. On the other hand, we want to create a culture in which doctors can report safely and in which we can learn from mistakes that are made. So I am not saying that it is desirable in all cases to make the whole thing voluntary, but I am setting out a dilemma that I do not think we should look away from. That is why I ask the Minister what solutions he sees to create a culture in which we encourage doctors and patients to share information and make it public, to create a culture in which it is safe to do so, and at the same time to prevent mistakes being swept under the carpet and we cannot learn anything from it. In my view, Mr De Lange and I are not so far apart on this difficult subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u11	Clear! It's clear to me. I agree with you that this cultural change...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u12	You agree with Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I agree with Mrs Ellemeet that it is of course important that this should lead to cultural change. In doing so, it is relevant that there is a good structure underneath to achieve this. I think that is what is now being worked on in this bill. It is important not to lose sight of that. Let us make sure that we are really going to take steps in this and make that move, especially those parties that are still looking away from this and are not actively working on that better culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u14	My comments were also about the fact that if you publish without explanation the mistakes that have been made, that does not always give the right information, neither does patients. So if we're gonna do this, we're gonna have to do it very carefully. We must not run away from the fact that an obligation without proper explanation can also lead to more fear among doctors to report and to discuss problems and misses. The Minister must also seek the right solutions for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u15	Fine. We are going to listen to Mrs Van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The Law on Occupations in Individual Health Care is essential in monitoring the quality of professional practice in care, but also in protecting patients and clients from inappropriate and careless behaviour. In short, the BIG Act monitors the quality of care and protects the patient. It is worth dealing with this carefully and it has been done. With a comprehensive legal evaluation and input from all professional groups, there is a balanced law for the CDA that can receive our support. For the CDA, patient safety is paramount. That is why I am pleased that my colleague Hanke Bruins Slot's motion for a resolution is being implemented. This will make it possible for the criminal court to impose a professional ban on serious offences such as sexual offences or murder committed by a private professional. This is a far-reaching measure which, I hope, will not often have to be imposed. But by creating this possibility for the criminal court, we hope to avoid, for example, that a psychiatrist who has been convicted of a sexual offence or possession of child pornography can then continue to work professionally with patients who have been sexually abused. Mr. Chairman. There will be more insight into the BIG register. It is very important for patients to be able to easily look up whether their treating physician is actually included in the BIG register and whether restrictions have been introduced. In 2017, the register was consulted a total of 1.1 million times, but it is not clear how often this has been done by patients or, above all, by employers. Isn't this better to make sense and does the Minister intend to monitor whether the number of searches will increase if the BIG number becomes mandatory? Mr. Chairman. Let me talk about the light regime, which includes, for example, the dental hygienists. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is good that it is made easier for patients to check in the BIG register whether they have a real doctor in front of them and whether they are adequately trained. But what about the professionals in the light regime of the law, like what I said about the dental hygienists and, for example, pharmacist assistants? They are not registered in the BIG register and therefore the obligation to provide the registration number does not apply to them. But I can imagine that patients would also like to look up whether they actually have to do with, for example, a well-educated dietician or skin therapist. These professions have a great deal of unfair competition from professional names which suggest the same thing, but which have had far less training, which, as it were, misleads the patient. Can it be ensured that they too are easily found in the various registers held by professional associations? Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink also mentioned this: the explanation of behaviour. As a patient, you're in a dependent situation. That is why it is important that healthcare provides the safest possible environment. In many other sectors, such as childcare, an explanation of employee behaviour is therefore required. In fact, since 2013, childcare staff have been continuously screened, looking into whether people who work or live in a place where children are taken care of have new criminal data in their name in the Justice Documentation System. Why are these measures not included in health care? Is it an idea to investigate whether a vog and possibly continuous screening should be made compulsory in the care or in specific parts of it? Mr. Chairman. The rules on reserved activities do not apply to family care or family care. In other words, the injection of insulin or the insertion of a probe may be done by a caregiver or family member. In the written replies, the Minister confirmed that this also applies to volunteers in the care sector, provided that the care institution has no control over the volunteer's commitment. Is it true that the limit is very low when the care institution controls the volunteer's deployment? As soon as services are scheduled, for example, is there any control over the use of a volunteer, which means that volunteers are no longer allowed to carry out reserved activities? Who will ensure that volunteers act professionally or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u17	You went on to the previous point, but I still have a question about the vog, to fully understand what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u18	What Mrs Van den Berg wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u19	What Mrs Van den Berg wants. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Within the care, the caregivers of course have to deal with an oath of office. They explain a lot, but above all to make sure that people get better and not do things that are not good for people. That's the popular summary. What do you think a vog...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u20	What does Mrs Van den Berg think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u21	What does Mrs Van den Berg think that a vog will add to this very serious oath taken within the medical profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u22	That's exactly why we're asking for an investigation. On the one hand, we see that, for example, this has now been made very mandatory in childcare. Care is precisely a sector where people are confronted with very vulnerable people. That is why we would have liked to have at least examined whether this could have added value, followed by continuous screening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mrs Van den Berg, you indicate that you want it examined. But if you're investigating something, you always have a certain thought. Or do you say that it is good, at least, because it plays a broad social role in all kinds of areas that are asked for vogs, to get a good idea of the advantages and disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u24	I believe that there has been a discussion some time ago in order to broaden the scope of the agreement. There were many practical and administrative objections to this at the time. That is why we are also saying clearly: perhaps for part of the healthcare sector. But once again, with the experience we have heard about in recent years, we wonder whether these vulnerable patients should not also be protected from it. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the reserved actions. I already talked about the carers and the volunteers in institutions. Then I would like to talk about the teaching staff. After all, according to the Minister, teaching staff in special education may also carry out reserved activities, as long as they do not act professionally. This means that the teaching staff must do it voluntarily, at the request of the parents and without any salary or fee being received. The competent authority of the school should not play a role in this, otherwise there will be professional action. We would like to know how this construction works in practice. Should parents record appointments with the teaching staff? And how is it found that the competent authority has no objection to the teaching staff carrying out these actions in school time? Mr. Chairman. I recently asked questions about botox and fillers. I would like to ask a few more questions about these kinds of actions. Injecting Botox falls within the scope of the BIG Act and may therefore only be carried out by or on behalf of a BIG registered trader. That is already the case, but that is further clarified in this legislative proposal. The question is, however, whether this is sufficiently maintained. Last Friday, the Minister answered my questions about the sharp increase in cosmetic procedures such as treatment with botox and fillers. In his answers he shows that he does not recognize that the researchers of the Erasmus Medical Centre describe that patients should be treated more often in hospital after being injected into a back room of a solar studio or hairdresser's bad fillers or even some kind of plastic. In doing so, the Minister shall base himself on the figures of the inspection. At the same time, he states that suppliers who are not registered in the Trade Register, who are not members of interbranch organisations and who, as it were, carry out their activities under the radar, cannot be in the picture at the inspection. The CDA finds that extremely worrying. How can we better carry out this monitoring so that patients are better protected against this kind of charlatans? According to Erasmus MC researchers, 1 in 52 women in the Netherlands would have received such treatment. So, as far as I'm concerned, there's something really serious going on here. The Minister also writes that it is not necessary to make clear where you can go for botox and fillers, because we already have the website yourselfmooiermaakken.nl. How often is this site consulted? I didn't know the site, so I googled it for a while. I wonder if the general public knows about this, because the site is not available if you just type in the words "make yourself more beautiful." The most recent news items of the site then date from March 2017, March 2016 and July 2015. When I enter a name, I end up with a link to the BIG register via trial and error, and I see: "You have too many search results. Would you like to refine that further?" The English would say: I rest my case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u25	It's a mystery case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u26	It's a mystery case. Hence the following questions. Can the Minister provide analysis on how this site was visited? And when will the information campaign which the Minister is talking about be launched? If it's the CDA's fault, it's as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the right to be disciplined. Colleagues have already spoken about this. At present, all disciplinary measures against doctors are immediately made public in the local newspaper and in the BIG register. In the case of serious infringements resulting in restrictive measures, I believe that this is entirely justified. Patients need to be actively informed about these issues. But when it comes to a warning, a reprimand or a fine, as far as the CDA is concerned, it is an unnecessary and potentially harmful horse's product, especially in cases where there is still a possibility of appeal and objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u27	The CDA has also tabled an amendment on this. Mrs van den Berg needs a lot of words. My question is whether she can explain again why she thinks that the mandatory record of reprimands and fines should be removed from the register and from the public notice. Why does the CDA think that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u28	I'll get back to you on that. If that is not enough, I will respond to that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u29	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u30	But maybe I should say it twice. The core is this. You have two regimes. There is no discussion about the heavy regime at all, but in the light regime, for example, two doctors may have had discussions between themselves about something or that one has wronged the other. We really wonder whether you should release that right away in the public domain. Mrs Ellemeet has just talked about creating a safe environment. We do not think that creating a safe environment is supported by all small, light things. We also say that this is what we are talking about in the end. There's a case. That case is still open to appeal. Then it's up to the disciplinary college to say: yes, sorry, but we're going to publish it now. So we don't want to make it impossible, but we do want to do it in steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u31	It seems to me that a mischief does not lead to a fine. My question was just very clear. Mrs Van den Berg is simply very unclear. She says she'll come up with this later, but she needs so many words in an amendment. If you don't want that reprimand and the fines recorded, you should be able to say out of your mind in plain Dutch why you don't want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u32	We have just talked about bagatel cases, but so there are things that are being put forward and in which, for example, to name but a few, it is said that you could have been better able to communicate. But the question is whether this should be done equally in the public domain. That doctor is crazy on his fingers at the time, and he also knows that next time he's gonna have to do it differently. The question is whether it helps the doctor's position to make this public everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u33	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u34	It seems to me that a communication error does not lead to a reprimand or a fine. I find this very weakly substantiated. For example, this is a very different matter from what Mrs van den Berg is putting forward here. For example, it's about a psychiatrist who writes out medication and then asks the patient to use it himself. That's also a reprimand or a fine. And then the CDA here is going to propose not to record that! You know, the BIG registry is something wonderful, something BIG registered people are proud of. This means that they are highly educated and capable. That also means that if someone does not comply with that high standard and if he has been less competent and unprofessional, they can see that again. So I really don't get this commitment from the CDA. I also ask the CDA to come up with good examples and a good motivation if it is to insist that it wants to get the reprimand and the fine out of the bill, because it cannot be a communication error or a mistreatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u35	Once again, we leave it open that it is still possible to publish properly. All we're saying is do it in steps. There's a first case, then the professional case and then it's up to the disciplinary college. The Disciplinary College can therefore still decide to publish this. In the example mentioned by Mrs Agema, I could just imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u36	I know what Mrs Van den Berg means. If it says in the newspaper that doctor X has been fined or reprimanded without proper explanation of why that has happened, what the consequences are and what this says about his ability and his expertise, I understand that this leads to confusion and that a patient does not have that much information. But then the problem lies much more in the provision of information and how these things are communicated than in the fact that fines and reprimands do come out? When we talk about improving the profession and the content of the profession, is transparency really very important?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u37	Presumed: we just want to ensure that the patient is even better protected in the end. That's the purpose of the law, too. That is why we also said in the introduction that we fully support the need to achieve this objective. So then the consideration is: how can we achieve this in the regime of minor offences, again, we are not talking about the serious offences, if there is indeed a publication without any context, where everyone can draw conclusions about the doctor who can also be unjust? That is what we want to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u38	Then the problem is on the other side, isn't it? Then the problem lies in the fact that publication does not adequately explain why action has been taken, why a reprimand has been given and what consequences this has for the healthcare provider concerned. Then we have to do something about that, so that not a very small ad is placed but a slightly larger ad from which the patient can see that someone has received a fine or a reprimand but that this does not necessarily mean that the doctor is not right and that he should not go to that hospital because there are very bad things happening there? If that explanation is correct, is that exactly what you want to achieve, namely that we are looking at what has gone wrong and why a fine has been issued? The consequence of this proposal may be that more things remain under consideration. That does not seem to me to be Mrs van den Berg's idea either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u39	No, we certainly do not want to put things under the carpet; we have just used that expression. That is not the objective at all. Mrs Agema rightly pointed out that things need to be explained in jip-and-janke language, so that the citizen who reads it understands it immediately. Because it happens without context, or because you sometimes need a lot of context to explain it, that is one of the obstacles. That is why we are seeking a solution. On the one hand, we want to create that safe culture, in which people are well-wrapped: this cannot be the case. The moment there is a notification and you also get a warning or a reprimand or a fine, there must be a very clear signal: this really cannot be done. On the other hand, it should not be in the newspaper immediately. Especially in smaller communities such a doctor can then immediately be completely infected, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u40	Clear. Mr. Hijink, rounding up and short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u41	Is Mrs Van den Berg open to a different approach, namely to adapt that publication? Then there would not be a short ad, but a comprehensive description of why a fine or reprimand was issued, and what its consequences would be for the patient. Wouldn't that be a more logical solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u42	I'm always willing to see if you can make anything better to achieve the goal. We do think it's important that it's done in steps. You can always appeal, so we do not want such a decision to be taken until the appeal has been made. There'll be a suspension in no time. We are always prepared to see if we can improve texts with the help of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u43	I have a question for Mrs van den Berg. The amendment is a little more fundamental. In the amendment, you indicate that it may still be a consideration of the Disciplinary Board to see if it can be published. In your amendment, you also indicate: for example, in case of a lack of self-reflection, or in the interests of individual health care. Aren't we going down the road to publication becoming an additional punishment? Now we have built it into the system that this openness is a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u44	I understand Mr. De Lange's question. Once again, our aim is to strike a balance between openness and security on the one hand and very clear protection of the patient on the other, in order to clarify that. I don't see why this would be seen as an extra penalty. I believe that it will also be very soon clear which types of cases will be published immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u45	I do not agree with Mrs Van den Berg, because now the decision is being taken at the disciplinary board. A number of examples are now given. But with that it may happen that it may not be published if, for example, you repent. I don't think that's the right way to go. I fully agree with you that we need to move towards openness, but then we need to invest much more in how we and how healthcare institutions and doctors communicate about what happened, about how it happened. But let us not forget that it is self-evident that a patient has the right to know that there has been a reprimand, on which we should not think too lightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u46	I'll take that. I hear sounds from various quarters of the Chamber which make me think that the amendment as it stands today will not receive a great deal of support. So I am certainly prepared, as I mentioned earlier, to look at the lyrics. I think I have sufficiently explained the purpose of our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u47	You have a well-developed political feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u48	To sharpen that feeling a little bit further, I say the following. I think I hear Mrs Van den Berg say that she is in favour of openness, but at the right time, and that as long as the process is still going on, it is undesirable to publish, because you first want to know what the outcome of an ongoing disciplinary process is. Did I understand Mrs van den Berg so well, that she is for openness, but then openness at the right time, and that she does not think that this is premature, so if we do not know what the outcome of a process is, should be published?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u49	Sure. I'll find the first one anyway. As far as the second issue is concerned, I think that this is particularly the case in some cases when it is not possible to publish. I hear from all my fellow Members that this is seen differently. May I... carry on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u50	Well, let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna pick up where I left off. So we are not talking about very serious offences against which appeals and objections are still possible. It's about the light business. Then the question is whether this is the information that really helps the patient. A single warning does not create a fair picture and does not say enough about the lack of quality of the person concerned and sometimes even less about the quality of others. Now that the legislative proposal lays down that in serious cases BIG registered persons may also be burdened with immediate abstinence from professional activities, I believe that patient safety is sufficiently guaranteed. Therefore, a mandatory disclosure of any warning, reprimand or fine still subject to appeal may lapse. I have therefore tabled an amendment on which we have just discussed it in detail. In any case, these measures should not be published until they have been irrevocably declared by the Central Disciplinary Board. I'd like to hear from the Minister what his response is to that. I would also like to hear whether it would be an idea to set up a committee from members of medical organisations and patient organisations to seek advice on what information on disciplinary measures is really important for patients, and how this information should be communicated effectively. Mr. Chairman. A number of professional groups have been wanting to be placed under the BIG Act for some time. The Minister is rightly reluctant to do so and therefore calls for a comprehensive justification. Soon we will be sent the legislative amendment which includes the orthopedagogic generalist and the director's nurse as a basic profession. On what time can we expect that bill? And can the Minister state his position on the recognition of medical assistant training as recognised evidence of formal qualifications? Professional titles such as dietician and dental hygienist are legally protected under Article 34 of the BIG Act. So you can only call yourself dietician if you have followed and completed the right vocational training. But where can a professional association like the Dutch Association of Dietists report it if the protected title is abused? On the website of the inspection, the National Health Information Point, it is pointed out that patients and clients can report there. Could the Minister clarify that? Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mrs. Van den Berg can finish her sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u54	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u55	I also have a question about her amendment, so we can do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u56	No, I'm gonna start a little bit about the BES islands now, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u57	Mrs. Ellemeet introduced the ball. She was talking about the case that a case isn't final yet. Then Mrs Van den Berg said: yes, I will. But then I still have another more critical question. A disciplinary case lasts on average 200 days and an appeal for another 200 days. That's not how long we're gonna wait to inform people about things that aren't acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u58	In fact, we have specifically asked about this: what period are we talking about? We were told it would be six months tops. I am talking about matters that have no impact on patient safety, because that is the category of serious offences. So it is not 200 days, as Mrs Agema has been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u59	Well, that's it, isn't it? Six months is a long time, too, not to inform people. Well, I really think this amendment should be reconsidered. I don't think it's very wise to wait that long, six months. And so it's 200 plus 200 days in an appeal; that's over a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u61	I don't think it's really wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u62	As I said, my conclusion was that the amendment in its present form will not find support. I'll take that with me. I also do Kingdom relations, so I would certainly like to ask a question about Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba. Doctors who make serious mistakes in one country should not be able to go back to work in another. It is therefore possible to take over from the BIG register measures imposed on a professional abroad. We talked about that yesterday. The letter of amendment states that there is also a gap in this system. In fact, it is still the case that within the Netherlands the BIG Act applies and that measures imposed abroad can be incorporated into the BIG register. But the BIG Act does not apply to the BES islands, while the islands are of course not foreign. They are part of the Netherlands. As a result, the measures imposed on the BES islands cannot be included in the BIG register. The Minister is fixing that gap now, but how is it arranged the other way around? How is it ensured that if professionals in the European Netherlands are subject to a measure, this is also known in the BES Islands, so that they are not able to get to work there in the event of serious abuses? Finally, I have a question about the task redeployment in oral care. When does the Minister expect to send the AMvB with which the experiment is set up to the Chamber? Are clear criteria also included in the AMvB to determine when the experiment has been successful? Think of criteria like the reduction of costs and fewer foreign dentists. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u63	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Groothuizen of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I am replacing my colleague, Mr Dijkstra, who has other parliamentary activities today. My group understands the need to amend and clarify the BIG Act on a number of points in the light of the evaluation report which dates back to five years ago. For example, it is good to increase the recognizability of the BIG-numbers. My group also considers it important to clarify that the conduct of risky actions is always reserved for professionals who have the expertise to carry out those actions responsibly, regardless of the purpose of those actions, whether medically or cosmetically. That brings me to my first question. Can a person who is a general practitioner or basic physician and is included in the BIG register carry out cosmetic activities? Is the difference between a plastic surgeon and a cosmetic doctor even obvious to patients? And more generally: is this law actually better to ensure that a doctor is able to carry out a particular act? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the right to be disciplined. The objective of disciplinary law within the BIG Act is primarily to promote the learning capacity of the sector. Secondly, disciplinary law has the function of correcting dysfunctional professionals and, if necessary, excluding them from professional activity. These are clear objectives. In this context, however, I do have a question about the publication of reprimands and fines. Those are not restrictive measures. Disciplinary law has therefore ruled that the professional does not endanger patient safety and that he should still be allowed to pursue his profession in full. However, it is chosen to publish this measure by means of a note in the Register and publication in the Official Journal, local newspapers or weekly newspapers and a list on a website. Well, that sounds like a warning to the patient. The KNMG points to its stigmatizing effects. Research carried out by the research institute NIVEL also shows that more than half of the health care providers affected by a reprimand or a fine have considered stopping working. Eventually, even 12% of caregivers indicate that they have actually ceased their duties as a result of such disciplinary proceedings, including disclosure of a sanction. This is especially true for caregivers who are older than 60 years old. Of these, no less than 4% claimed to have stopped as a result of such a published reprimand for fine. This shows that a reprimand or fine can have a significant impact on the professional's partner and family, of course. I'd like to hear from the Minister what he thinks of those consequences. Does the Minister think that publication and publication in newspapers play a role in the choices people make to quit their jobs? To what extent does this publication actually contribute to the ability to learn, or to correct doctors, which is the main objective of disciplinary law? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, NIVEL's investigation shows that the majority of the citizens surveyed attach importance to good information on reprimands and fines. The Patient Federation has also stated that it attaches importance to the disclosure of information on what is going wrong. That's perfectly understandable. However, the question arises as to whether the information now provided actually leads to the patient being able to make an informed choice. There is no clear context. Mr Hijink of the SP pointed that out as well. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to investigate whether there are alternatives to the publication of reprimands and fines and whether he could explain how this works in the legal profession. That is where the board of discipline can choose to publish a measure, but that does not happen by default. Mr. Chairman. Another point raised by the KNMG is also important to me. It is noted that the increasing powers of the disciplinary judge make disciplinary law more effective in criminal matters. Disciplinary law is designed to monitor and promote the quality of professional practice and to protect the patient. But to do that, you need an open culture in which professionals dare to report errors and incidents. When disciplinary law is extended, the KNMG fears that professionals will be less open and less testable. My question to the Minister is whether he recognises that risk and, if so, how he intends to prevent it. Mr. Chairman. The law introduces the possibility of imposing a burden of immediate abstinence on professional activities, the so-called LOB. A far-reaching measure; everyone will agree with me. That is why I think it is important for the Minister to explain the precise criteria on which such a burden can be imposed. In view of the far-reaching nature of the burden, the Council of State is in favour of including and doing so within a period of one week. The section considers that it is obvious that the inspection shall submit the burden imposed, together with a statement of reasons, for assessment to a court where the professional concerned may be heard. In this way, the Council of State says, the interests of patients, as well as the interests of the professional, are properly protected. The department shall consider the disciplinary judge to be the designated body for that purpose. The Minister, on the other hand, says: no, for that, you must be justified in administrative law. Through the General Administrative Law you can request a provisional provision. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly how this procedure is going and specifically how long it will actually take until a professional who is faced with such a burden can refer his case to the administrative judge in an interim hearing. After all, this has a lot of consequences. Even more important is the question of what the administrative judge will test. Because the inspection takes eight weeks to prepare a good file, so the administrative judge will have to do it with much less information. I'd like a response from the Minister. I also have a question about the eight-week period for the inspection to prepare and submit a complaint to the Regional Disciplinary Board. Why exactly was that period chosen? Isn't a shorter period than those two months actually possible? This means that a person may not be able to exercise his profession for two months. If the inspection does not comply with the complaint, it must be notified to the professional as soon as possible. In this case, how will the damage be dealt with? How will damage be dealt with when the Disciplinary Court finds that the complaint of the inspection was not well founded? On this point, too, I would like to receive an explanation from the Minister. Then I come to the proposed court of registry in disciplinary law. In order to bring a case, a complainant must pay €50. He gets that amount back the moment he's said right. I would like to hear from the Minister why he thinks that such a threshold is necessary for the submission of a complaint. Are there so many gag cases being filed at the moment that it is really necessary to raise that threshold? Is registry law the only way to do that? Does the President-in-Office's decision, which has been introduced, not actually see an opportunity to simply close cases with a manifest inadmissibility or a manifest unfounded statement? Do we really need that right of registry? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. At the beginning of this year, the Law BIG II, as it is often referred to, was for consultation. Why was it not chosen to deal with these two legislative proposals in conjunction? When does the Minister think that the BIG II Act will be sent to the Chamber so that we can deal with it here? Is there, then, any more clarity about a possible designation of lasers as a reserved act? I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u65	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Agema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr. Chairman. The BIG Act has two functions. On the one hand, it should monitor and promote the quality of care provided by BIG-registered healthcare providers. On the other hand, this law should protect patients from the carelessness of BIG registered persons. The second review of the BIG Act in 2013 and a number of issues of dysfunctional professionals demonstrated the need to tighten up the BIG Act. The legislative proposal before us contains a number of measures to this end, some of which raise some questions. The occupational ban has long been a wish of the PVV Group, because withdrawal alone does not prevent someone from continuing to work in health care. We also agree in principle with the broadening of the discipline to the private sphere, but what exactly is the subject of "misdemeanor"? I would like to hear a few more examples from the Minister. It doesn't seem to me that speeding, a tax debt, and you name it, could get you into trouble with your BIG registration. After all, someone will of course only get into more trouble. Can the Minister give a number of examples of conduct in the private sphere which could lead to disciplinary proceedings or a professional ban? The LOB measure, the burden of immediate abstinence from professional activities, responds to another wish, namely to be able to suspend a person immediately if the investigation and the filing of disciplinary proceedings take too long. Speed for everything, as far as we're concerned. But here too we are wondering whether the conditions for an LOB, as I said, are clearly defined and clear to everyone. Can the Minister give examples of this? It is not clear what will happen if the disciplinary complaint has not been brought and filed within eight weeks. Is the LOB going to expire? But what is the procedure? What are the consequences? I ask this because a period of eight weeks seems to be extremely short. Then there is the introduction of the President's decision, which is intended not to overtake the capacity of the Disciplinary Board. We wonder whether, in such a case, the complaint and dispute bodies should not simply be referred back to them. What is the link with the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act? Can the Minister elaborate on this? We continue to have reservations about the levying of registry fees of €50. It's been over before. Not that this is an insurmountable amount, or that we are in principle opposed to a levy on registry fees, but we wonder whether this is really necessary, especially in view of the previous point, the President's decision, and the fact that an independent disciplinary officer is appointed to advise and supervise people who want to file a complaint. I am sure that this will overcome a lot of the unwelcome or unimportant complaints, I would ask. In 2017, a total of 2,230 complaints were submitted to the Disciplinary Colleges, central and regional. Based on €50 Registry fees, the proceeds will be €111,500. Is a multiple of this amount not related to the administrative burden? Wouldn't it be better to delete those registry rights, I'm asking the Minister? Anyone who really fails to treat vulnerable patients should bear the consequences. We therefore consider it necessary to disclose these errors. Therefore, we do not share KNMG's concerns that the impact of disclosure is too heavy and that disclosure should be deleted. As I said earlier in my interruption to Mrs Van den Berg, a BIG registration is something you are proud of. Because you're capable, and you expect your colleagues to be. Let us look at the figures: there are over 350 000 people registered in the BIG register. Of the 2,231 complaints in 2017, 141 measures were made public. This is also not in line with the idea that we would cause disproportionate damage to the sector. Those 141 were rotten apples. If you are BIG-registered yourself, I think it is a good thing that the standard is set where it should be, which is high, because you yourself are also skilled and highly educated. That's what you want from your colleagues. So this is what strengthens you, as I just said. Now that this amendment also obliges you to include the BIG number on all forms of communication with the patient, I would suggest that you link the BIG number to the registry on the healthcare provider's website, so that you can check the registration for patients with one click, including possible disciplinary measures. Can the Minister take care of this, perhaps in the same way as the AMvB? In addition, how is the supervision of temporarily suspended caregivers, caregivers with partial disqualification or caregivers who have been removed from their profession? How's the surveillance? Does a care institution have to supervise this on its own? Is it a legal task of the inspection? Is she gonna do it? Or is this left to patients? If that is the case, the proposal I just made to link the BIG number directly to the register is essential. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally. I remember from the time that Agnes Kant was a Member of Parliament that we here in the Chamber were excited about plastic surgeons who were not specifically trained as plastic surgeons. So that's what got you into that trouble that someone who was trained as a surgeon and thought they could make a lot of money with breast implants that was just gonna do it. I wonder if plastic surgery is still not a specialty. Isn't that just desirable, because it's become such a big branch of sport? This prevents someone from starting as a plastic surgeon quite lawfully and then thinking that you can cut open a breast to put an implant in it. Someone is trained to be a surgeon, but can still do such extremely stupid things. Can the Minister answer that? Is it still the case that plastic surgery isn't a specialty? Wouldn't that gradually be desirable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u67	Thank you. So much for the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u68	At least I am going to suspend for 20 minutes so that the Minister can think about the answers to the various questions. My proposal is to combine it with lunchtime, but I'd like to discuss that with the Registry, which can't be reached for a while. I'm finally suspending until 1:50 p.m. We will then vote first on the motions submitted to the VSO earlier today. Then we'll have the arrangement of work and then we'll listen to the minister. So now we also have lunch break.
