ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Amendment of, inter alia, the Education and Vocational Training Act on regional cooperation on early school leaving and young people in a vulnerable position (34812). I give the floor to Mrs van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Be the best, happiest version of yourself. That's a certainty you're giving everyone. On this Day of compulsory education we could not have chosen a better time to talk about early school leaving. Early school leaving still leads to a lot of young talent that cannot get the best out of itself. Young people who leave school without a diploma are less likely to get a job, are more likely to be suspected of a crime and have higher care costs. Fortunately, thanks to a targeted approach, the number of dropouts has been steadily decreasing for some time. In 2015-2016 more than 22,000 young people fell out. In 2002, these were 71,000. In 2021, a maximum of 20,000 new pupils shall be allowed to drop out without a diploma. You will not be surprised that we thought it was a good idea for the then Minister to adapt the education legislation to ensure the regional approach to early school leaving and to broaden it to young people for whom obtaining a starting qualification is either temporary or not feasible at all. The draft law aims to ensure that all young people aged 12 to 23 years without initial qualification are optimally supported by a regional safety net of education, municipality, care and labour. However, in order to make the legislative proposal a sustainable success, a number of conditions still need to be met. I would remind you of the task and target group of regional reporting and coordination centres and their role, which is changing from a registering to a more coordinating role. As far as we are concerned, this also calls for better cooperation and coordination, but also for good information to be provided so that the young people concerned can be properly monitored. I am referring in particular to information on young people who are coming out of pro and vso, something that is not yet regulated by this law. What is the Minister going to do to create these conditions? The PvdA welcomes the government's intention to increase the qualification requirement to 21 years. Pilots are being carried out in large cities, as we read in the coalition agreement. In this way, the important considerations behind the legislative proposal Introduction extended qualification obligation are taken into account. I would like to hear from the Minister how and when we can see the results of these pilots. Mr. Chairman. Early school leaving is not always a problem in itself, often not even. Early school leavers often have other problems as well. They often also have a disability. Now a large group of youth organisations have sent us the manifesto to work. They argue that the responsibility of individual municipalities is too often ignored. In concrete terms, they ask us to address the responsible directors of OCW and SZW on the following points. Make sure that young people with disabilities have a timely view and are carefully guided to a suitable place, regardless of whether school or work. Map good examples. Encourage pilots to develop new solutions. As far as we are concerned, the most important thing is to involve young people and their organisations, because they know what works in practice. Especially that last point goes wrong sometimes. We often see that we talk more than we do with young people. So our question is also what the Minister is going to do to ensure more space for tailor-made work and how she is going to ensure that young people are better involved. Combating early school leaving requires a regional and interdisciplinary approach in which young people involved, education, youth care, municipalities and local business should be able to join forces. The Minister writes in her letter of 7 March on a stronger link between education and care. It will examine how to resolve bottlenecks in the fields of education, care and employment. We wholeheartedly support that. We, too, would like to see cookery stopped, so that interdisciplinary cooperation is possible. Can the Minister indicate what concrete steps it intends to take in this respect and what objectives it intends to pursue? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal we are discussing should contribute to supporting finding a suitable place for young people from 12 to 23 years of age without starting qualifications. This is done thanks to a regional safety net of parties from education, municipalities, care and labour. Partly this bill now records what has already been done with covenants. It is good that we pay attention to vulnerable young people and to reducing early school leaving. Many parties are needed. GroenLinks thinks it's a good bill. But of course we're not here with just this law. In the end, it is the commitment of all the different parties I mentioned earlier. For example, we hear that cooperation is not always self-evident, and that having an infrastructure is not the same as using it properly. The role, task and target group of the regional reporting and coordination function is changing, from registering to more coordinating, and this requires additional effort and funding. We would like a response from the Minister. Does she agree with us? The legislative proposal sets an age limit of 23 years. My group wonders whether this hard cut is in the interest of young adults. Could it be that in some cases young adults of 24 years of age still need this support? I'd like a response from the Minister. Not long ago, I had a conversation with young people with disabilities. Some of them indicated that they needed a little longer time to finish their studies. They also said that there is no good education for the older young people. I ask the Minister: how do we deal with this, including in the context of appropriate education, and does this bill change anything about that? The legislative proposal also reduces the possibilities for admission to adult education, the vavo. In the year that young people turn 18, they can be referred to in the context of preventing and combating outages. Of course that sounds good, but I already hear from 18-year-olds that they feel like they are being sent to the vavo because their own school doesn't want them anymore. So how do we ensure that guidance in schools remains the starting point and that this possibility is not used too quickly? Finally. The regional approach will be evaluated shortly. This evaluation therefore no longer affects the legislative proposal itself. We would like to know from the Minister what she expects from the evaluation and when we will receive that evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr President. This legislative amendment aims to include appropriate education and further education within the monitoring of early school leavers without initial qualification. That monitoring has made sense. The figures show that there is a declining trend. That is a very positive development. It provides social capital. All these young people who have stayed out of the hopeless situation of a Wajong benefit, that is all pure social gain. The pro- and vso-schools have already made a very positive contribution to this, from their own unique way of working. Since 2002, several governments have focused on reducing the number of early school leavers. The vsv approach has only got off to a good start since 2008, with the programme Attack on early school leaving and the conclusion of covenants. This intensification has paid off. By integrating it into a regional approach, in the form of an administrative vsv consultation, and a subsequent regional programme, a huge reduction in the number of early school leavers has been achieved. The maximum target of 25,000 was reached in 2016. However, 25 000 young people still fall out every year without a starting qualification. Despite the success of the regional approach, this remains a huge number. We therefore encourage the government's efforts to reduce this number to a maximum of 20 000 by 2021. We sincerely hope that will succeed. Mr. Chairman. However, we do have difficulty with the objective of escorting old vsv'ers back to education. We're talking about a group that hasn't gotten the awareness all those years that it's been monitored to get a starting qualification anyway. If that awareness is not there, what is the point of withdrawing that group of vs'ers, who simply do not want to go back into education? This is an incredibly difficult group that you don't really want in your education. They corrupt the education process by demanding excessive attention, due to problems of order and, above all, to a great deal of failure. Who's the victim of that? I'd like to pay attention to that. Those are all those benevolent mbo boys and girls on levels 2 and 3, who have only one chance to get a nice, good education. The PVV has nothing against mapping vsv'ers. But the awareness of these adults is what we're talking about; they're adults. They really have to come from themselves. No one can oblige them to return to an educational institution after their 18th birthday. Perhaps we should ask ourselves whether this problem can be mainly placed with SZW, precisely because education for all those young people who have not been able to move for years to get that qualification is probably not the answer. We have to be careful, we have to keep education from too much social discomfort always coming back on the plate of OCW. Don't get me wrong: education will welcome, as far as we are concerned, any student who is motivated to make something of his life. But don't let it happen that those really unmotivated students are forced, in any way, to go back to school after the age of 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	Doesn't Mr. Beertema put all these people on the same footing? Are there not people who need a boost, who need to be helped to obtain a starting qualification? Doesn't he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	No, I disagree with my colleague from the CDA. I am just explaining quite thoroughly that there are a lot of well-intentioned people, also vs'ers, who need a while to get out of that school, participate in that life and come to insights. That's the most important thing: those insights. There's got to be one. If they don't, I'd like to wish you a class full of young people like that. But don't blame me for shaving them all in one place. Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	Also vs'ers who are out a little longer sometimes need a conversation. They sometimes need help to get back on the right track. Does Mr Beertema agree with me? Or did he say that all these people were lost?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	I don't understand this whole interruption. Where are you going with this? Of course these people are welcome. Of course they can have a conversation. What's this about? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mrs van den Hul said, today is the day of compulsory schooling. There are young people who are at risk of falling out, or young people who are no longer in training while they do not yet have a start-up qualification. It is precisely at this crucial stage in their lives that we must help young people to take action, otherwise they will suffer for years to come. The fact is that school leavers have more trouble finding a job. Achieving a start-up qualification ensures that young people have a better start in life and have a better chance on the labour market. In recent years, efforts have been made to combat early school leaving, and with results. There is very good work done, for example in Rotterdam, where officials and also alderman Sven de Langen visit the school leavers at home. But we can see that the figure is stagnating. Although we prefer to see that, of course, we no longer have an outburst at all, we must be realisticly ambitious. Therefore, it is good to see that the cabinet is aiming to reduce the fall-out by 2021 to a maximum of 20,000 vs'ers per year. We support the aim of this legislative proposal, which is to secure the regional approach of early school leavers in a structural way and to extend them to young people for whom the acquisition of a starting qualification is not directly feasible. As we agreed in the coalition agreement, we are also going to look at the possibility of making professional certificates possible. We are also looking at what role the social service we are going to introduce can play in getting a starting qualification. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to the specific group of young people with disabilities. How are they actually involved in this approach to vsv? An important element for the CDA in this bill is the extension of support for young people up to 23 years without starting qualifications. This is particularly because we see that reducing the drop-out of young people between 18 and 23 years of age is going to be difficult, because we do not have the legal instruments there. We are therefore curious whether the Minister will be able to say a little more about the implementation of the pilot of the extended qualification requirement in the major cities. The cabinet has planned to increase the qualification requirement to 21 years. When can we expect a proposal on this? The differences in the classification of the RMC and the labour market region are perceived as a bottleneck. The Minister stated in the explanatory statement that the Empire and the municipalities are now going to work together to solve this bottleneck. The CDA would like to hear how this is designed and how it is ensured that this integrated policy is implemented. Finally, I would like to address two specific issues that concern the CDA. These are the high absenteeism rates and the high fallout among young people with a non-Western background. Sick leave is an important reason for long-term sitting at home and vsv. Then good information is important in order to be able to act as quickly as possible. Educational institutions do not need to report students' failure to the municipality. Would it not be desirable, if there is regular failure to do so? There is also no legal obligation for institutions to engage in regular absenteeism with parents and pupils. I would like to ask the Minister to see whether this can be agreed in the administrative agreements. It is important that school, parents and students work together in this. What role does the minister see in this for the municipalities? Then I come to the drop-out figures among young people with a non-Western background. They're relatively high. We would like to ask the Minister whether she can explain the reasons for this and whether a specific approach to vsv among these young people is also needed. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about a wonderful law today. Most laws require an adaptation because you want to do something else. Actually, it's just different with this law. In order to continue doing what we have already started, the law still needs to be amended. The goal is, of course, fantastic: all young people between 12 and 23 without starting qualifications will receive the support they need to find a suitable place in school or in work. That is a fantastic ambition, but let us also look at the causes. Let me start with the absenteeism. You don't have to be a rocket scientist: if someone calls in sick often, then the moment he doesn't come to school at all comes soon. Now the protocol how to deal with it is pretty clear. After four consecutive weeks, a notification must be made to the municipality. After another four weeks there will be a follow-up report. Isn't that a little spacious? Mathematics was never my strongest profession, but then you'll be out of school in almost two months anyway. Does the Minister see this risk? Would an assessment of, for example, an educational institution whether someone is actually ill, an earlier report, a home visit or whatever, perhaps not be a better idea? I can imagine that the average teacher really does realize that something is going on before those two months are over. I think you can avoid a lot of trouble with that. And then this is still in the perfect situation, where, for example, attendance registration is in order. If the attendance registration fails, the whole carefully constructed house of cards, which we are discussing today, thunders, as happened with roc Zadkine. Now more went wrong there than just the attendance registration. The inspection was not very commendable. What's going on with that? Can we be kept informed about the improvements that need to be made there? If even the failure registration, the very first starting point of the whole approach, fails, then the rest is also pointless. That would be a shame, because the ambitions are so beautiful. It also aims to extend the possibility of admission to adult education. I'd say we should do everything we can to get this group back into school, but don't we lose sight of a group? Mrs van den Hul has already mentioned this. It is not for nothing that, among other things, Each person asked for attention for young people with disabilities who eventually achieved their initial qualification, since for them a job is not always a given, despite the fact that they may have completed that training. Of course, there is also the approach to youth unemployment and tackling it for people with disabilities, but would it not be good to open up the infrastructure that we already have and which often works well in the region to young people with disabilities who have achieved a start-up qualification? I'm asking that as an open question. I haven't reached my conclusion yet. Of course, we only have to do this if we need to, but if we can get extra people to work with it, I think that's just fine. Mrs Kuik also talked about young people with a non-Western background. Recently, youth unemployment was monitored in Amsterdam, where, in addition to the declining youth unemployment rate throughout the city, youth unemployment among young people with an ethnic minority has finally been significantly reduced. That really happened pretty fast. Of course that has everything to do with the brilliant alderman sitting there: Arjan Vliegenthart, SP, 21 March municipal elections! Take advantage of it. I do not expect the Minister to vote on SP, which is perhaps a bit ambitious, but I would say: take advantage of the experience gained in Amsterdam. I can see Mr Van Meenen getting up. I was just about to say that it's a very successful college, along with, among other things, D66. Finally, I would like to hear from the cabinet whether it thinks that the municipalities can cope with the extension of the reporting and control function that currently lies with the municipalities. There is a small increase in the budget, but we are also hearing signs of concerns about whether the budget is related to the additional tasks they are given. Now I understand that you can never make sure of that in advance, but if things go wrong, I would like to be informed so that we can solve that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. So you see: it can still work out with the SP, if it is well accompanied by some D66's who are in charge. March 21st elections, I'm just gonna say it again. Mr. Chairman. In the TV programme DREAM SCHOOL attention is paid to the group of young people who are being shortened here in The Hague to vs'ers, early school leavers. They're young people who have dropped out of school and struggle to get their lives back on track. Some of these young people have already experienced more in their lives than many adults. They deserve accessible and structured support. In recent years, there has been a significant improvement in the fight against this failure. Since 2002, the number of early school leavers has decreased by two thirds. A great result, which has often been achieved with temporary agreements. The Minister's commitment to legally guarantee and broaden this approach is therefore good. By improving regional cooperation between education, municipality, care and labour, the aim is to have fewer than 20,000 drop-outs by 2020. My group fully agrees with that. This allows us to increase the chances of young people getting into trouble for whatever reason and having trouble getting their starting qualification or finding a good job. Targeted support can help these young people to stay on the right track. Mr. Chairman. This legislative amendment extends the target group to 23 years. This will involve current vs'ers in the approach. These young people are at extra risk in the transition from education to the labour market. In order to guarantee a lasting effect, it is important to continue the support. In addition, the approach becomes more integrated, involving labour, care and education in regional policy. The Minister states that the existing budget can be maintained because the RMC function will not be increased by expanding the target group. Can the Minister explain whether the current budget is sufficient for the extension of consultation with education, labour and care? Mr. Chairman. D66 considers it to be a positive development that the RMC function "the Regional Reporting and Coordination function," I say just a moment before the listeners are fully able to provide adequate support. This legislative amendment follows young people without initial qualification. When they threaten to get stuck or need help, they are directly connected to the right parties. However, we still have a few questions for the Minister about the consequences for direct contact with young people. Can the Minister explain how this improvement translates into the front of the support, so to those who are in contact with young people? Does this also make support more integral, where young people with complex problems can be easily reached and not sent from the cabinet to the wall? In addition, the grant shifts to implement measures for a regional vsv programme from the school to the municipality. Can the Minister give examples of such measures for a regional vsv programme? If there are good examples, is it possible to share them nationwide? Mr. Chairman. Through daily contact, schools have established a relationship of trust with these young people, allowing them to easily request support. Can the Minister explain whether the shift of funding from school to municipality also shifts this task? It is conceivable that the municipality will be a less accessible point of contact for these young people and that an early and rapid approach will be lost. Can cooperation and division of labour between municipalities and schools be extensively included in the evaluation? Finally, Mr President. The classification of RMC contact municipalities does not coincide with the classification of labour market regions. This may create practical obstacles to support and cooperation between work and care in regional consultation. I'd like a response from the Minister. How will she work with the Minister of SZW to improve the connection? Why does the Minister leave the initiative for classification with the municipalities, while the Minister ultimately decides how the RMC regions are classified? I suspect that Mr El Yassini will table a motion on this in the second term. It's already got my signature on it. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Finally, Mr El Yassini has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. Education, good education, is the distribution of a strong and prosperous society. It is indispensable for a self-reliant and independent future and much needed for the start of a career and the construction of a beautiful career. It offers opportunities in life. It creates a ladder that allows everyone to reach their own heights and thereby strive for their happiness. Unfortunately, there are too many early school leavers without starting qualifications and vulnerable young people struggle with the lives of today and later. Young people without initial qualifications are more often unemployed, more often receiving benefits, more often using care and more often suspected of a crime than young people with initial qualifications. It is damaging to them and to society, and it costs us more than just money. We really cannot afford to let people stand aside while we have huge labour shortages. I myself have experienced up close what it does to young people, their neighbourhood and their surroundings when there is school drop-out. Hope is often gone, because who else do you want to hire? You have no income and you still live with your parents. The problems are piling up, just like your debts. And before you know it, you're gonna hang out on the street, see if you can get a couple of barkies together. That is why it is vitally important, and I do not use that word lightly, that early school leaving is being dealt with. The counter is now at 22,948, so almost 23,000. That is below the 25,000 that the previous cabinet has set. We're very happy about that, too. The new border is now at 20,000 per school year. This will be used in the next cabinet period. I think it is very noble that the cabinet continues to reduce the number of early school leavers and, of course, I understand that zero is unachievable, but 20,000 is as many as the population of the municipality of Alblasserdam. And mind you, it's 20,000 a year. I would like to know from the Minister how the cabinet achieved that objective of exactly 20 000 and what this border is based on. How did the Ministry support this objective? I would also like to know from the Minister what it would mean if we made the objective more ambitious. Let's just say we'd set the border to 18,000. What effects does that have? What happens then, what does that mean? Finally, 5,000 more young people with a starting qualification. The number then goes 23,000 to 18,000. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. In addition, we also see that the causes of school drop-out are very diverse and complex. At least we've seen information that shows that it's a large part of school-related stuff. I mean, like, 47%. In total, we spend 82 million on preventing early school leaving and vulnerable young people, in order to give them a better perspective and a more promising future. That is a considerable amount of money, but it is worth it if we can actually give young people who would normally fall out a start-up qualification. Effectiveness plays an important role in this. That is why I would like to ask the Minister how municipalities and regional reporting and coordination function regions account for the expenditure of the results to the Empire. Does a specific benefit constitute an effort or a result obligation? The Minister states that she would like to leave it at regional level. I totally agree with that. I also think that the support should come from the bottom up. It is important that it becomes clear immediately who is responsible and what the consequences are if the tasks are not carried out or if the results are not achieved, because after all, we have set that national standard at 20,000. It is then very good to see if we can pass that on to the regions. The Minister's intention is further to provide the specific benefit in advance for a decentralised benefit. For the VVD, it is not yet clear which timeline the Minister envisages. Can the Minister clarify when the specific benefit will be converted into a decentralised benefit? How does it ensure that it controls the achievement of the national limit of early school leaving and that it does not lose influence or control if, for example, a municipality is lax or has a wait-and-see attitude towards achieving results? I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. The VVD also has questions about the connection of the regional reporting and coordination function regions. Some of my colleagues have already mentioned this, including Mr Paul van Meenen, but I also thought Mrs Kuik of the CDA. We see that there is no good connection between these two regions. The explanatory memorandum states that, in order to change the classification of the region, the initiative is explicitly taken by the municipalities, but that the regions are determined by the UWV, and therefore SZW, and the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science. When the regions ask for a change, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the Empire will respond to this. Next, the Minister writes in the same paragraph that the government within the Social Domain Programme is now working with municipalities and other partners to solve bottlenecks relating to regional classification. The VVD likes to hear from the Minister what is currently the status of the connection of the regions, as well as whether there have been requests from the regions themselves or from municipalities for reclassification or modification. If so, are there solutions? Where are we right now? How far are we going? How do we see that for the future? Mr. Chairman. Then the main point, the parents. Parents are the most important people in young people's lives. The VVD believes that parents should take responsibility for raising their children and for accompanying them to school. Sometimes, unfortunately, parents can also cause problems with early school leaving, but almost always they should be part of the solution. I'd like to zoom in on that. It is crucial that we use the tools at our disposal when dealing with early school leaving, especially when it comes to parental involvement. We have already regulated by law that parents who are not or are barely involved and unwilling can be reduced to family allowances. This is an instrument that is necessary and already available. The VVD has tried to find out how often this measure has been implemented over the past eight years. The latest figures we have been able to find are from the 2013 policy review. This showed that 77 reports of serious non-compliance were received by the Social Insurance Bank between 2010 and 2012. In 23 cases, i.e. 30%, it appeared that the threat of shortening was enough for parents to get involved and keep the child in school. This means that in 23 cases we have ensured that these children have stayed in school. Four children returned to school after the penalty was imposed. Unfortunately, therefore, the measure is being used too little. In cases where this does happen, it seems very effective. A number of colleagues spoke in their contribution about students with a non-Western background. You can see that involvement of parents plays a very solid and important role in this. We want to ensure that parents are so involved that they are taken into account and ultimately ensure that the children stay in school. If they do not want to be involved, if the compulsory education officer is standing in front of a closed door, if the school has an empty chair opposite them during a consultation with the parents, then we should also use the tools to ensure that the children can eventually stay in school. We haven't found the recent figures yet. So we are really talking about the figures between 2010 and 2012. Can the Minister tell us how many times this instrument was used between 2013 and 2017 to tackle early school leaving and really keep parents involved with their children and accompanying them to school? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we can never get out of school at zero, no matter how much we want to do this. But every boy and every girl who leaves school prematurely is one too many. Only if we set the bar high and really work together, not only from the Empire, but also from the regions, the labour market and the municipalities, using the instruments at our disposal now, can we give more young people the chance to live a beautiful and good life. Because in our eyes everyone has the right to the pursuit of happiness and the fulfillment of their own Dutch dream. The only way to do that is with good education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mr. El Yassini. The Minister needs a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I thank Members for their contributions. I shall begin by complimenting you on the proposal, because it is of course very nice that this bill is on the day of compulsory schooling, which I myself always like to call the 'day of the law of learning'. For we must learn not as a duty, but above all as a right: a right to develop. How wonderful it would be if we could tell all the people involved in fighting vsv that we are seeing here today that they are given the assurance that they can continue to do so on a structural basis. Mrs van den Hul also said it: this legislative proposal also protects the approach that we had until recently in covenants. Until a little less than a year ago, I was an RMC alderman myself. I know how important this approach is and how good it is to have a legal basis for it now, so that all those who are very committed to it now know that they can continue to do so. She also said that it is very good that we extend this to the pro and vso groups. I shall say a little more about this later. The legislative proposal is very much in line with the recently signed governance agreement for the MBO with the MBO sector. In the new round of quality agreements we have made with the MBO, there are three themes on which institutions really have to formulate mandatory ambitions. One of these themes concerns the less self-reliant students. The vsv approach, but also finding work, is part of those mandatory themes. The people in the field of institutions, such as municipalities, the compulsory education, the RMC, should be explicitly involved by the institution in the formulation of that agreement. We have made the agreement with the MBO in the vein of: you must formulate ambitions in the area of the less self-reliant young people. But you also need to involve stakeholders, for example the RMC function and the municipality. I expect schools, in cooperation with the municipalities, to continue to fight early school leaving. I believe that Mr El Yassini also stressed it: every vs'er is of course too much. Let us also point out here that, of course, a great deal has been achieved in recent years thanks to the efforts of many in the regions. In 2002, 71,000 young people fell out without a start-up qualification. Now there are less than 24,000. So we have come a long way. Decreasing the target to 20 000 new vsv'ers per year in 2021 is unfortunately not yet in sight, so there is still work to be done. In reply to Mr El Yassini's question about the objective and how I come to it, I say the following. Of course, we want to be ambitious. You asked if we could set the target at 18 000. Then we have a few less. The previous government set the target at 20,000. I support that objective. As I said, the number of vs'ers has fallen steadily in recent years. We now also notice that in the regions you see very well that you are now coming to a core of vs'ers who are the more difficult cases. The people who are fairly easy to get back to the school banks, we did get out by the approach. It also looked at the pre-training of the young people who are out of work. The assessment has been made which of these failures are still able to obtain a starting qualification. Of course, we also have data from the evaluation. From all these data, the target of 20,000 has come. We must also be realistic, because it will never be zero. We know that too, and I can already see that it will be quite a job to get that 20,000 in time. We initially had a somewhat faster drop, but it is now flattening, precisely because it is becoming a more difficult task. So I would say: let's first see if we can achieve this objective properly. Since 2008, the approach has been shaped in the form of covenants. There was a temporary basis of covenants between my predecessors, the schools and municipalities, with which much has been achieved. But those covenants are now over. We have chosen not to give shape to the follow-up by means of a new extension of the covenants, but to give it a legal basis. This follow-up also had to be broader than the current vsv, because there are also young people for whom reaching a starting qualification is not feasible but who do want to get to work, for example. This applies to some young people from practical education, but also to young people from VSO and entrance training. This bill also aims to promote further cooperation between schools and municipalities for these young people in order to help them to get to work. We also want to keep an eye on the young people for whom a start-up qualification is not feasible. Sometimes it is also good that they go to work temporarily and then return to the school banks for a start-up qualification. It sounds a little disrespectful but in this bill we also look at the old vsv'ers, the people who have fallen out before. Mr. Beertema asked if you should not try to retrieve it. You, Mr Beertema, said: you must not want us to bring them all back to the school banks? That's not the point. Of course, you want as many young people as possible to get a starting qualification, because in the end they are best helped and strengthened in their position on the labour market. But you must also be real and you are right to say that it is sometimes desirable for neither young people nor for training to force a young person to go back to the school banks. This is why municipalities, for example in cooperation with care or employment services, are looking at whether these young people are unable to go to work in order to obtain a qualification or a certificate. So we have to be creative in that with each other. It is good that these young people are in the picture, but I am reassured: no, we do not want them all back in the school banks. The legislative proposal is intended to ensure that the structure we have built in recent years can be continued. Some of the agreements previously negotiated through the Covenant are now legally secured. This concerns in particular the administrative consultation of schools and municipalities in the RMC region on combating vsv and supporting young people between 12 and 23 years of age in a vulnerable position. Schools and municipalities must together create a regional programme for this. But we also add a number of elements, which we actually say on the basis of experience, it is good to add to the approach. I mentioned already the following of the former pro-students and the vso-students between 16 and 23 years of age to prevent these groups from falling between shore and ship. The bill also obliges the RMC parties to invite the parties from the fields of labour and care for regional administrative consultation. Some of you asked for this and I think it is very important, because this integrated approach is really more important. I've also seen that if you sit around the table with each other, you can see how you can connect these domains well together. Municipalities have been given many powers in the social domain and it is of course very good that they can also join forces there. We allow students access to the Vavo in the year they turn 18 and so when they are less than 18. I believe that Mrs van den Hul said on this point: does that not mean that vo-schools are going to let go of these young people too quickly? Let us be clear about it: then there is no duty for these young people to go to the vavo. I very much agree with you, and this must also be looked at in the local consultation that schools in secondary education do not quickly let go of young people. They must do their utmost to continue to guide them. In some cases it is also very nice for young people to be able to go to another environment, because they are better placed in that environment. It is mainly the creation of a possibility, but it is certainly not intended to happen in all cases. New in the bill is the obligation for MBO institutions to join this consultation. That also makes sense when you talk about young people from 18 to 23 years old. I try to answer the questions asked in order as much as possible. That seems to me to be the most obvious thing for the Chamber. Mrs Van den Hul asked how the pilot is doing on the increase in qualification requirements. Mrs Kuik also asked for this. We are currently exploring how to implement this measure from the coalition agreement. As you all know, the debate on the extension of qualification requirements has a long history. I believe that my predecessor has already tried to arrange this. That requires a change of law. We know from the past that it is a fragile path that we have to deal with carefully. I'd like to send you a letter before the summer on how we're going to do that. I would like to add that it is clear from the earlier period how big the legal difficulties are in extending the qualification requirement for a selective group. That's what we're going to tell you about. That's why I took some time for that until the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	I see you at the interrupting microphone, Mrs Westerveld, but I think the Minister is answering Mrs Van den Hul's questions. Then she will come to you, because you were the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Kuik actually asked me about a response to the pamphlet by Elke about how young people with disabilities can be properly accompanied to work. The call that Everyone makes is important. I will also take it to heart. I think it is very important that young people with disabilities receive support in finding work. In any case, this bill will ensure that these young people are in the picture with the municipalities, namely at the RMC. The RMC has the task of involving the right party to support these young people in finding work and keeping them at work. In order to ensure that this is done in practice, I work together with colleagues from Social Affairs, VWS and Justice and Security in the programme to create opportunities for less self-reliant young people to solve the bottlenecks we encounter in the region. I can well imagine that there will be bottlenecks in the region if we actually get to work on them. With my fellow Members, we have said that we need to work very closely with the bottlenecks. It has been agreed with schools, municipalities and healthcare partners that they will draw up a regional work agenda to solve the problems of cooperation, paying particular attention to young people with disabilities. The problem is on the retina. I welcome the fact that, in the context of this debate, everyone has pointed out that this must be given real attention. By regulating it in this law, the problem has not yet been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	I'm glad to hear the Minister's theme is on the retina. A very specific part of their plea was: don't talk about us, but talk to us. I will repeat my question on this. Is it also on the retina to talk with the organisations that represent these young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	At least that's very good on my retina. Because I have a meeting with them in May to start that conversation. This concerns young people with a chronic condition and a number of youth panels. I want to continue with this and talk about it regularly with young people. I also hope that happens locally. As an alderman, I've noticed how practical it is if you just ask young people: how would it work for you, what solution meets your questions? I'm gonna have all this conversation in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	I'm very glad to hear that. I would ask the Minister to share this ambition with her local interlocutors in particular, perhaps to inspire them with that good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	I'll be sure to. Thank you for that tip. Mrs van den Hul also had a question on information pro and vso. How do we ensure that this information is provided? It has been well noted by you that this bill has not yet been dealt with automatically. The monitoring function is, by the way. We arrange the provision of the data separately in an AMvB, which we hope to have ready in early 2019. Mrs Westerveld asked me if RMC regions are capable of taking on their changing role, moving from a registered to a truly coordinating role. We now see in the regions that this role has already been properly taken up, that people are already doing a lot of work on it. After the summer, so this autumn, an evaluation will come to the Chamber in which we will look at how it has worked and whether this coordinating role has come out well. Some of you asked if the finances are sufficient for the new functions, also for adding pro and vso. Mr Van Meenen asked for this too. We can actually answer these questions on the basis of the experiences of recent years. That information will come to you in the fall. I will look in particular at that financial aspect. It is being looked at both organizationally and financially. I expect that we will have a further discussion with you this autumn. Some of you, including Mrs Westerveld, asked about the age limit, which is 23 years. I believe that this is due to the recommendations made by Ingrado. It's a fair question if there are 24- or 25-year-olds who just fall out of the boat when you make a cut like that. That is indeed a risk. Of course, for young people under 27 years of age without a starting qualification who apply for a benefit, they must first obtain a starting qualification. The RMC cannot monitor or guide them. This is why last year's Minister of Social Affairs amended the Participation Act, allowing each municipality to see through the Work and Income Service which young people between 23 and 27 years of age have no initial qualification and can then offer them an offer. So we'll keep that in view. There are now also ten pilots in test communities to see how that works in practice, whether this approach is sufficient and whether we can roll it out nationwide. But your question is justified. We have that in view and that runs through the line of the Participation Act. I have answered Mrs Westerveld's question about the Vavo. She also asked if this bill would change anything about appropriate education. No. Appropriate education does not change anything, but we do promote cooperation, including in the area of appropriate education, between secondary education, the MBO and the municipalities for young people in need of appropriate education, precisely in order to oblige them to join that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	That is why I just got up when Mrs van den Hul's questions on the vavo were answered. I said in my speech that on the one hand it is fine to reduce the age limit, but on the other hand we do not want it to be some sort of excuse for removing young people from ordinary school because they cannot have proper guidance, for example, or because they need more flexible education. That's what the Minister says. This should not be used as an excuse to send them to the vavo. Can we somehow monitor that lowering that age limit does not entail these undesirable effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	I would say that we should be able to see that by the number of 18-miners who arrive at the Vavo. That sounds like something you should be able to count. I'm gonna take a look at the people in the back right. There's a nod. We can count that, so we can monitor that, too. It is a good thing to keep a finger on the wrist, because if suddenly there was a huge increase, then you have to ask yourself whether secondary education is fulfilling its duty of care in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	I see that this answer is sufficient for Mrs Westerveld. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mrs Kuik asked me what we are going to do to counter the high fallout among non-Western immigrants. She has a point there, because we can see that the fallout is really just high. Most of those who fail are in entrance training or at level 2. That's where we see the biggest outage. But luckily, we also see that the fallout has fallen sharply over the last few years. That is, of course, a gain. This is also due to the improvement of this support in the entrance and level 2 training courses. Schools and municipalities are very much aware of this and I also see that they are taking measures to prevent this failure, for example by offering additional language support in the context of this additional guidance. That could really be a way of preventing young people from falling out. For example, there is really more very specific support that you can use. I trust that local authorities and the MBO institutions will work on this in concrete terms, also in view of their obligation to do so. But I say: this is also customization. Sometimes you really have to have a different approach per neighborhood to counter vsv. Mrs Kuik, but also Mr Kwint asked me why we do not require that absenteeism be reported to the municipality, because absenteeism and frequent absenteeism are often signs and precursors of outage. That was their question. Sick absence is, of course, permissible absenteeism, because a younger person can just be sick. This does not need to be reported to the municipality immediately. But if a young person is reported sick very often, there can of course be more to it; in my opinion Mr Kwint was referring to it. Then it may sometimes be good to report that absenteeism and, for example, call in a youth doctor. For example, we do this through what is called the "M@ZL approach" (Medical Advice Ziekmelgde Onderwijsling). In addition, schools are going to intervene more quickly if a student often fails because of illness. The youth doctor is then involved and often just a house visit is made, or one comes to the office. This is how people want to find out what's really going on. For example, there could also be cases where genuine youth aid is appropriate or where, for example, there is a very different issue in the family. If we wanted to settle this through an obligation to always report absenteeism, this would mean a considerable increase in tasks, but also the administrative burden on schools and municipalities. I remember one school ever did it to me for a joke. Well, then the reports went pretty much crazy on us, because if a school's really gonna report everything, you're really gonna pick up the wrong signals. But it is good that parents, schools and municipalities make good agreements about how they deal with this. Mr Kwint also asked in this context: are these deadlines not too long? You really have a point to make. In practice, you often see that the municipality and schools make the agreement that they are already going to take action at a shorter time than the legal deadline, so that you do not wait those four weeks to take action. We can see that that's effective. Your question is: should we not therefore shorten the legal deadline? I don't think that's wise. That would also mean an enormous increase in the workload. However, it is a good thing that municipalities and education agree: we have a legal deadline, but you should actually see it as the outer period on which you have to act. But it is wise to see if you will intervene if there is a signal, for example because someone has been absent for a reasonable period of time. That room's here. Then you can go on house calls and perform with a junior physician. I can also see that this is happening. I would like to reiterate your point in the contacts our account holders have in the region, namely that the deadlines in the law are deadlines and not minimum deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	The deadline is four weeks. Then a report must be made to the municipality, but it does not need to be followed for the rest. Only after that second report, then you've been two months, a municipality should take action, and even then it's just the question. I was talking about Zadkine's example earlier. Of this is indicated to the municipality: boys, here goes something incredibly wrong with the registration. The city didn't do anything about that. Now you don't solve a negligent congregation with a change of law, but still. I do not need a detailed answer to that right now, but as far as that eight-week period is concerned, I simply cannot imagine a specific case in which it must take two months for the school to contact a student for the first time to see how things are going. If there is no good reason to put it in a law, then I understand that it may not have to involve a lot of administrative burdens right away, but why is it in the law, if everyone contacts us earlier than two months? And if it is necessary, if that two-month limit is apparently necessary to allow municipalities or schools to contact a student, then perhaps I would like to bring it back a little bit, because I think it is just a very, very distant border. Your school year's almost gone when you're home for two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	Reports are always picked up immediately. There's always something going on with a report. We do have a deadline for real action. We've put it to the max. The two-time four-week period you're asking for applies if I'm right for 18-plussers, not 18-minners. You are actually asking: should we not set the deadlines? Isn't there a problem there? Here's what I'm gonna do. Besides, I can see that things are often going well in practice, but I have sometimes wondered myself: gee, are they all convenient deadlines? If we are to come to you in the autumn with the evaluation of the current working method, will I go into this specifically to see if there is anything else we need to do there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	I think that's an excellent idea. That saves me another motion and then we can look at it quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u35	Please continue, I'll tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr Kwint also asked: isn't a house visit a better idea than just registering? Yeah, that's often a very good idea. It happens all the time. But in this approach, we also see that municipalities have a lot of room to agree on the organisation of the approach in the region. We organise that regions can learn from each other, but there must be room for tailor-made work. We'll spread the good examples. I just got a call here. I said the evaluation was coming this fall. We are doing the evaluation this autumn and it will come to the Chamber just after the turn of the year with a policy response. So it takes a few weeks longer than I told you before; excuse for that. In the context of tackling youth unemployment, absenteeism and outages of young people with a non-Western background, Mr Kwint gave me the tip to see how things are going in Amsterdam. I will certainly do that, but we are not looking specifically at Amsterdam but at all the regions to see what a successful approach is and whether we can bring it to the attention of other regions. On Mr Kwint's question whether the RMC functions can also handle the new tasks in budgetary terms, I said that this is a point of attention in the evaluation. Earlier Mr Van Meenen asked me the same question. All these points are reflected in the evaluation mentioned above. Mr Van Meenen also asked whether the tasks included shifting the financial flow from schools to municipalities. It is equally good to pay attention to this point. Of course, that is not the case. This approach remains jointly responsible. It is not for nothing that we have explicitly included in the administrative arrangements we made with the MBO as one of the important issues in the quality agreements, where it is not the question of whether we want to do anything. No, that is something we are going to monitor, because it is very important that it remains a common approach. Mr Van Meenen further asked if I could give an example of shifting the budget from schools to municipalities. How does that work? Where does that lead? A very concrete example of an approach in the region is not in my mind. We see, in particular, that it improves the reach of young people who have been out of work for a long time and who are really a target group for the municipalities. At the school they have been out of the picture for too long. It's often a bit of a tricky group. This really creates more space, and I think that's a win. So it's good that that's settled. Mr El Yassini asked me how accountability works. In dealing with early school leaving, as he rightly said, a considerable amount of money is involved. It is also a good thing that we do that, because that saves society a lot of money in a later phase. Money for young people to get a start-up qualification will always be paid back as a society. Municipalities justify their expenditure on this grant through the normal SiSa account, as it is called. This is a system in which municipalities justify the subsidies. I see Mr El Yassini nodding on the sign that he knows the system. That is an effort obligation. The congregations account for what they spent that money on. Schools and municipalities then decide together in the regional approach how they deal with the regional budget. There is a certain amount of responsibility in this too, because we really need to come to an approach together. In all regions, we are actively following up on the vsv reduction and the effectiveness of the measures. We are constantly in conversation, also through our account managers. What works very well in that accountability is the vsv-atlas of municipalities. I assume you look through them every year, too. That atlas is published every year. In it, municipalities see exactly how their vsv figures are going. I can say from experience that if one year your figure is a little less than the other, you'll have a spicy debate in the city council. That local control of how that approach is going, whether it has that effect and whether it really leads to results, really works. We check that the money is spent for the purpose for which we give it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u37	I fully agree with the Minister that the implementation should be determined at regional level. You must also have confidence in regional cooperation between municipalities and schools to tackle this. But I'm gonna get in trouble anyway, 'cause you can't score without a goal. The same applies to municipalities. If we all set a goal, we already have a national goal, namely to reach less than 20,000 vs'ers by the end of the cabinet period, but that goal does not translate regionally, what is the effect of that rural objective at all? In fact, we say, we don't translate it. Then there's no sum we can use to see if we're going to get that 20,000, and we don't have any direction on that either. What we often see in this Chamber, including in other portfolios, I also look at the other parties: it will then end up in decentralisation. We spend the money, but then they have nothing to say about the result. When something happens in the country, both the media and other parties immediately look at the minister and he says: you are responsible; get on with it. I would like to be in favour of this by saying to the Minister: think about what we want to do, not what we want to do, not what we want to do, but what we want to do and what we want to do. If it is then later transformed into a decentralised benefit, I read that too. We are not in a situation where we as a Empire are simply completely out of control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u38	I would like to say to you: look at what we have achieved in the past. What works very well here is a great deal of transparency about how it works in all regions, how it works by municipality and how these figures develop. We didn't go from over 70,000 to around 23,000 for nothing. This has been done through this system in which we say: we finance and we have to be accountable for what the money has been spent, but the debate on whether the measures are effective and what the outcome is about is conducted locally. I see that this has been a very powerful instrument. I don't think anything in this country has been as successful as this one. It is not for nothing that we in Europe are really the best example on this issue. So I think we've got a pretty good system here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u39	Finally, Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u40	I am also very pleased with that, because we have come a long way, from the 71,000 to the 22,948 of today. I'm not going to round up the number, because every vsv'er is too many. I would point out, and I would point out, that we will continue to give the specific benefit, which may later be converted into a decentralised benefit, to municipalities. In fact, that is new with the amendment of the law, because it first went to schools, if I understood correctly. This benefit is now going to municipalities for the first time. This means that this benefit will continue to be paid to municipalities, and, once again, the city council can also say at some point "we are not going to go into it" or "we are okay with the vsv getting up." So there is a chance that the vsv will rise again in the future and that we will continue to spend money without having control over it. There's a chance. The VVD is worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u41	The decentralisation allowance is not yet available. It's gonna take a law change. I will take a decision on this in 2019, even after we have had the evaluation of how it works. Your fear is that things will get out of hand once we have decentralised them. This gives little confidence in how municipalities, education and care currently do so. If those vs'ers are there and cause problems locally, they will also pay for these costs. Do you realize that? Municipalities have every interest in doing this in a good way. Today's approach works very well. If we see regions lagging behind in the effectiveness of their approach, there is a discussion about this. There are also many talks about between regions. We're really encouraging that knowledge exchange. It is not a single municipality either, but it is the municipalities that have to decide on the approach together with the schools. There's already a reasonable system of checks-and-balances in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u42	Your final remark, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u43	Very briefly. The minister says I wouldn't have any confidence in the region. I totally disagree with that, because I do have that confidence. Otherwise, we would not have said that it should be filled in at regional level. You have heard me say that in my contribution. That indicates there's confidence in it. What's incredibly important, I've already said, is that you can't score without a goal. There's got to be a number in there. I think it is important for the Minister to agree with the regions that there is also an objective for each region, such as: boys, pay attention, this is the magic number; please stay underneath it. I miss that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u44	If I understand you correctly, you ask me to translate the target of 20,000 into one number per region. That's what we're gonna do. We're gonna build up bureaucracy. I'll tell you why. If we have to translate this, we must also assess the exact influx into the levels of MBO and the development of employment in a region by region. You then have to count so many things per region and translate them into a number that adds together to the rural objective. In recent years, this has gone well and the rural objectives have been achieved, without a division of objectives by region, also because, as we have seen again, that debate is being held fairly firmly locally and local administrators are very well addressed or the objective has been achieved. I would ask you, perhaps, to reconsider why it has worked in recent years and why it would not work in the near future. That's not in the decentralisation allowance. Through this law, therefore, the legal anchoring is good........................................................................................................................................................................................... The MBO institutions have a duty to do something about this. This is regulated by law on all sides. However, I do not believe that it will help us to attach a very precise number to each region. If it turns out that we have done so and that one region is far below it and the other one stays above it, is that because the regions have not done well or because we have not made good the translation of the objective into the region? You want to do something that is completely unclear why that would be necessary. Regions often set themselves this goal. We'll share that approach with each other. Local drivers are asked about this locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u45	It was just Mr El Yassini's last remark, but he is now getting a question back from the Minister. So I'm gonna have to give him some space to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really intended to let the minister talk, but she came up with another question. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dan kan ik niet anders dan opstaan om antwoord te geven.]] She asks the question sincerely, because she does not know the answer. I think I know the answer. At the beginning of her contribution, the Minister spoke as follows about the figure of 20,000. How are we gonna figure that out? In fact, we first started with the low-hanging fruit. We picked that up. Then we took the next steps and could actually take the easiest version in terms of guidance. That 20,000 we're talking about now, that's gonna be solid. So it's not easy to bring that number down. This is exactly why we were able to put that into a covenant before and pick it up in conversation with the regions. You could have, because that low-hanging fruit was easy to grab. But now the group is becoming increasingly difficult and we also need to make clear agreements with the regions. If the Minister then says 'but if they don't make it', then the intention is that OCW together with the regions I am not going to look at the individual municipalities: is it the inefficiency of the approach of the region itself and do we have to adjust it to the example of other regions in which it is successful, or are these things that the region itself cannot do anything about and should we go ahead with it? We really need to set targets and translate them into regional objectives. This also has to do with the fact that we are no longer able to pick that low-hanging fruit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u47	That was your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u48	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u49	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u50	If we lower the target for a region, it will make it easy, but then we miss the effort again. Again, we have not needed it in recent years with a very successful approach. Then why would we be setting up a bureaucracy to fully translate that? In order to build that up, I need to have all the information that shows exactly what all kinds of things are about by region. I don't see the added value. You can't convince me of this. Mr. Chairman. I think I will get to the last two points. As far as regional classification is concerned, of course, the Chamber has a point. The Court says that regions in the classification of regions are not always compatible. Labour market regions, RMC regions and other regions If municipalities so request, we adapt the regions, because in the end the municipality itself chooses which region it wants to belong to. I promise you that I am quite willing to engage in this discussion, for example in the social domain: can we not make it more compatible? However, when municipalities say that they prefer to belong to another region, that is their right. Moreover, the administrative reality of this country over the past decades shows that you will never succeed in getting it completely appropriate. Because we also have security regions, which are also important in this context. I would also like to mention the youth care regions. We can name them all. I promise you that we will discuss with the regions the desire to link the regions as much as possible if there is to be consistency. Finally, Mr El Yassini had a question. I also come back to another point, but let me start with the point of parental involvement. It was also mentioned by Mrs Kuik. Parental involvement is extremely important in combating early school leaving. There is a great deal going on in that regard, and that is also useful. I know the examples myself. When an MBO institution goes to parents' homes to ask what is really going on, it sometimes turns out that the situation in the family plays a greater role than the possible problem with the younger self. So the involvement of these parents is huge. The other side of that is that at least 18-plussers occasionally have the right to say that the parents are not involved. So you must have their permission. That's important, too. That's always a little balancing for the school coordinator, but you have a point there. That's what's gonna happen. I also feel that the MBO institutions are very involved in this. At European level, the Netherlands is often used as an example to show that parental involvement also works well with that target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u51	I think there has been enough change in this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u52	Yes. Finally. Mr El Yassini asked about the sanction instrument for child benefit. This is not often dealt with, because threats are often enough. In dealing with temporary school leaving, it is often a question of finding a solution together. Threatening with a financial sanction is often not the first instrument that puts parties and families on the table. "How can we help each other?" is often a slightly better approach than: "I come in with a stick and if you do not listen, I will hit with it." That's what I'm saying. It's very harsh. You do not see it in the figures, but when a letter is sent to parents or a conversation is made at the vsv-stoop. That too is effective, because it is seen that escalation is possible. That is why you do not see so many of these sanctions in the figures. Fortunately they are often not necessary and they are already enough. And let us be clear: if a municipality wants to impose such a sanction, it must be able to make it clear that there is serious culpable behaviour. The fact that a measure exists and that RMC officials can mention it is often sufficient, I can report from my own experience. So let's not send for more sanctioning. Let's focus on solving problems more often. It may help to impose such a sanction in the law, but we must want it to be applied as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u53	A brief question, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your patience, but this is a very solid point, which affects the lives of young people and children. I understand that you want it short, but I want this debate with the Minister well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u55	But interruptions must be short anyway. On every subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u56	I understand that, but this is a point in this debate. Of course, the VVD doesn't want this to be used too often. I am talking about the figures between 2010 and 2012, because we do not have any recent figures. At least I didn't find it. When we see that 34 municipalities...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u57	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u58	Then only 34 municipalities of the then 400 municipalities applied it. It doesn't matter to me that all the other municipalities are just doing well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u59	What's the question, Mr. El Yassini?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u60	I think that the Minister should start to work to ensure that this instrument is used...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u61	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u62	The question is what "use" is here. In the evaluation of a few years ago, when the measure was just there, we saw that it has a strong preventive effect. For example, municipalities let parents and young people know that they can finally stop their child benefit if they do not come to the VSV counter. It happens. You just don't see that in the numbers. When a VSV officer says that to a family on the phone, we don't register it. I hope you're not gonna ask me to. In your question, I have a certain desire to improve the effectiveness of the instruments, but let us be pleased with each other that the preventive effect is so powerful that the figures show that we do not need it. Mr President, I have finished my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u63	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. Or did a question just lie there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u64	I have one more unanswered question. Then I don't need a second term either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u65	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u66	I had asked the Minister whether the whole of the infrastructure that exists at the rocks could possibly help to get young people with disabilities who have achieved a start-up qualification towards work. Or does she think that infrastructure wouldn't be suitable for that? This question came from young people with disabilities. They saw all kinds of beautiful things and thought: we could also benefit from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u67	I think I answered that question. The cooperation that we are now building between MBO institutions, care, municipalities and Work and income can also ensure that... These young people are not in the RMC position, but at Work and Income, if it is good. If you have an effective methodology to guide those young people to work, then municipalities can use them for both young people with a start-up qualification and young people without a start-up qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u68	I thank the Minister. Let's move on to the second term. Mr Van den Hul, Mr Westerveld, Mr Bertema, Mr Kuik, Mr Kwint, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Wijsen, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr. Chairman. I have a tremendous passion for this subject. I do a lot of things, so that's why we debate it a lot. I'll keep it brief and powerful. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Nice to start that conversation, because it is a serious subject, not only for the young people themselves, because it really affects their lives, but also for their immediate environment and society. After listening to the Minister, I would like to table three motions. I'd like to start by cutting child support. In fact, I can see on the screen that my three-minute speaking time suddenly went to two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u70	That's preemptive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u71	I understand that, but I thought we had half the first-term speaking time and I had ten minutes in the first-term. I'm gonna read the motions. I'd like to start by cutting child support. I think it is important that we use that instrument to reduce the number of 20,000. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that early school leaving is detrimental to the future of young people and thus unprepared for them in society;]] [[noting that young people without initial qualifications are more often unemployed, more often receiving benefits, more use of care and more often suspected of a crime than young people with initial qualifications;]] [[whereas parents should play an important role in preventing their own children from falling out, but unfortunately there are still uninvolved, uninvolved parents;]] [[having noted that the General Children's Allowance Act has provided for the compulsory education officer to use the suspension of family allowances as an instrument to correct serious school absenteeism;]] [[having noted that recent figures for 2010, 2011 and 2012 show that the number of reports of absenteeism notified by the compulsory education officer to the Social Insurance Bank and the number of discontinuations of child benefit are significantly behind the figures of early school leaving;]] [[noting that recent figures for 2010, 2011 and 2012 show that the figure is 30% and is therefore an effective means;]] [[Whereas the instrument for addressing early school leaving needs to be used more to encourage parents to be more involved in preventing their child's early school leaving;]] [[calls on the government to engage in talks with all RMC regions and municipalities with the aim of using this instrument by all municipalities and all compulsory education officials to combat early school leaving;]] [[invites the Government also to continue to inform the Chamber with an annual progress report of the number of reports of failure by the compulsory education officer to the Social Insurance Bank and the corresponding discontinuations of family allowances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member El Yassini. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34812-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u72	At least that was the end of Mr El Yassini's speaking time, I believe. This is a really weird idea. You put in a motion and you say that these people are in very unpleasant circumstances, they often have to do with poverty and so on, they have a hard time. What are we gonna do to fix this? We're gonna take the child support. And then you ask the government to talk to regions to make sure that every region is using this tool. Maybe it's not necessary at all. Maybe there's nothing in that region at all... You are now asking for regions to get involved in something when you have no idea if they are in contact with it. The minister doesn't think so; you think so. They have the ability to do it. So what's the point of a motion that says they're gonna have to put this on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u73	There's that line. I come from a neighborhood where I've seen the effect it has. I see that parents leave their children to the gods, receive child allowances themselves and then spend them on a house abroad. I've been there personally. I've seen it. I've also seen those kids get into crime due to school dropout. On the basis of the figures we do have, I see that this instrument is being used too little: by 34 out of 388 municipalities. It doesn't matter to me that it doesn't play anymore. In addition, we also see that it is effective, because 30% of the children stay in school or go back to school. This is an instrument that works, isn't it? You're supposed to be behind that, aren't you? That's what I'm telling Mr. Kwint, through you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u74	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u75	I think the President will be fine with it. But no, this is not an answer to my question at all. Surely it is impossible to assess whether this is an effective means in all these different regions? The Minister states that the mere mention of this measure is sometimes already very effective. You can't send teams out with the order to pass a sanction without knowing what the actual circumstances are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u76	We need to look at the reports, because there is a difference between the number of reports and the number of stops. If we see that there are 77 reports, 24 of which are stopped and the others are just a threat, then I find it strange that it only happens in 77 cases of the, let's say, tens of thousands of cases. That is why it is important that we talk to the regions and say: use this instrument more often now, you have the opportunity, just take it and take care of it. I have two short motions to make, and then the chairman will be done with me for today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are 35 labour market regions and 39 RMC regions;]] [[Whereas the differences in the classification of RMC and labour market regions may lead to bottlenecks in the involvement of labour and care sectors and in regional administrative vsv consultation;]] [[Whereas the Social Domain programme has also identified regional disparities as a bottleneck;]] [[Whereas the regional classification should be borne by the labour market parties and educational parties concerned and the government does not unilaterally adjust the regional classification;]] [[calls on the government to work proactively in cooperation with municipalities to resolve this bottleneck and to coordinate the regions in such a way as to enable municipalities to pursue an integrated policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr El Yassini, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34812-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u77	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Empire spends EUR 82 million annually to tackle early school leaving and give vulnerable young people a better perspective;]] [[noting that the Minister would like to leave the regional approach to early school leaving and vulnerable young people;]] [[noting that the Empire has set out a national objective to reach the final goal of reaching less than 20,000 early school leavers at the end of this cabinet period;]] [[noting that the national objectives have not been translated into regional and local objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to reach agreements with municipalities and RMC regions on the maximum number of early school leavers, so that evaluation takes place on the basis of results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member El Yassini. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34812-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u78	That's right. The motion on the classification of regions is also tabled on behalf of Mrs Kuik of the CDA. So that's the name that's gonna come underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u79	We're gonna change that. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you, Mr President. There are three motions by Mr El Yassini. The first motion concerns the use of the instrument to end child benefit. I think we've exchanged enough. The motion states that the number of sanctions is lower than the number of vs'ers. I find that reasoning a little crooked. You could compare it with the reasoning that the number of traffic offences falls short of the number of cars on the road. I'd think the same was wrong. The motion calls for more use of the instrument to be aimed at and monitored. I have tried to explain that what we see in cases where child benefit is actually stopped is really to be seen as a tip of the iceberg, because the preventive effect of the instrument is so good. We have put this instrument in the hands of the municipalities to apply it where necessary. They know exactly what's going on in a family. I think it is a bit of a typical creatorial idea that we are going to steer from here when a municipality is going to impose a fine on a specific family. I'm coming to the El Yassini c.s. motion. in piece No. 10 on the regions. I have said that I share your view that we can look even more closely at how the regions can be reconciled. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The El Yassini motion in part No. Nine, I'm telling you, I don't know. I hadn't reached that conclusion yet, but I think it was already clear. I come to the El Yassini motion in part No. 11. I really do not understand what it would add if the rural objective were to be cut into a number of regional objectives. We have sufficient tools to monitor the efforts per municipality and to encourage them. Practice has also proven that that works. So I really do not see any added value in this, except that we might make it a little bit more bureaucratic. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-8.u82	We will vote next week on the motions tabled and, of course, on the legislative proposal. I would like to thank the Minister and the Members of Parliament, in particular Mr El Yassini.
