ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on tax advantages and subsidies for fossil fuels. You all have four minutes' speaking time and I should like to give the floor first to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What lesson does the Netherlands learn from Norway and New York? There, pension funds move out of fossil investments and governments take legal action against fossil giants to recover the damage caused by the extraction and use of fossil energy. That damage increases every day. Unfortunately, that's what we've seen in the north. This leads to climate change, earthquakes and health damage and even, according to De Nederlandsche Bank, poses a high risk for financial stability. That is why it would be good, for example, to impose higher capital requirements on investments in fossil energy. What does the Minister think of this and what is the position of the Netherlands in the European debate on this? The IPCC argues that getting Paris requires 70% of coal, 50% of gas and one third of oil available to stay in the ground to control warming. Nevertheless, the Netherlands does not have an integral and coherent policy whereby we use our direct influence on coal, gas and oil extraction to prevent more extraction than our climate allows. When does the Minister come up with an integral plan on this issue? I assume that the Minister will agree with me in any case in theory that it is not cost-effective to promote the use of fossil energy in addition to rightly promoting energy savings and renewable generation. However, there are tax advantages, exemptions or concessions for parties that make intensive use of fossil energy. Does the Minister agree with me that this should be phased out? The question of how many billions the Dutch government directly or indirectly favours the use of fossil energy is discussed. Today, however, I do not want to dwell on the exact amount of money involved, nor on the correct definitions of 'grant', 'fiscal aid', 'tax exemptions', 'compensations' or 'exception provisions'. The fact is that there are substantial tax incentives. I am now concerned with what we can improve for the future. I therefore call on the Minister to honour five wishes. First of all, make an overview of the policy that, whether or not intended, supports the extraction and use of fossil energy with financial incentives. Two: participate as the Netherlands voluntarily in the G20 peer review process, in which the G20 members evaluate each other's support for the use and extraction of fossil energy. Three: include proposals to phase out support for fossil energy in the national or integrated climate and energy plan to be drawn up. This is also logical as the share of renewable energy increases. Four: support, together with your fellow Minister Hoekstra, that higher capital requirements are imposed on financial institutions in the European Union if they choose to invest in fossil activities. The fifth proposal I have before the Minister is to call on the Dutch pension funds to actively invest in fossil activities, like the Norwegians and the New York pension fund. If the Minister honours these five wishes, I am a happy man and we have a fantastic start to this new year, for which I wish everyone the best. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This contribution is entitled "the great success of public policy or we are doing it sustainably or we are not doing it." The entanglement of the fossil industry and government is great. This entanglement has proved very successful in the period after the Second World War. Think, for example, of the construction of heavy industry. This proves that strong government policies can be very effective. Thus, the instrument "that's policy "may be successful'. The result was that at the time. But the result now is an economy that is largely based on fossil energy. And that is no longer sustainable because of the impact on the climate. After all, the carbon budget has not proved unlimited. The IPCC average estimate of 1.5°C carbon budget that we want to achieve worldwide is 600 billion tonnes of CO2. That roughly corresponds to 15 years of current global consumption. The question we need to ask ourselves is not so much what the cabinet intends to do to save or reduce. The question we must also ask ourselves is, of course, what is the carbon budget for the Netherlands? That is my first question to the Minister. The subsidies to fossil energy are so closely linked in our current economic and fiscal system that we do not even see the nine times out of ten. That goes from subsidies to Shell for education to export credits and farmers' insurance. According to the Ministry of Finance, which is well-known, the fossil sector accounts for a particularly large share of the insured portfolio. However, it also applies from exemption from aviation and shipping fuel to decreasing tax rates. In addition, the more you consume, the cheaper it becomes per unit of use. Depending on who you ask, these are grants of between EUR 6 billion and EUR 7.6 billion. Using the energy transition is the most profitable from an economic and therefore financial point of view if you do it as quickly as possible. This is not something the Animal Party says, but that is stated in the report of Sustainable Finance Lab of June 2016. As the damage caused by climate change and the health damage caused by the use of oil and coal is increasing, the fastest way in the longer term is also the cheapest. That should appeal to the Minister. Without subsidies on fossil fuels, CO emissions are falling by 20%, according to an IMF study in 2015. Mr. Chairman. What was a great advantage at first, namely the entanglement and intense embrace of the fossil industry and government, has now become an obstacle force. Of course, all these subsidies and benefits that the fossil industry has would like to retain. That's understandable, but I can't do that anymore. There's no hanging in there anymore. It's untenable. Quick and hard intervention is therefore desirable. Fortunately, the Minister does not need to look very far for his contribution to the solution. It starts with making that entanglement transparent and ends with a new adage: it has to be sustainable or we don't, because you can only spend a euro once. The instrument of public policy, which has proved to be so effective, must therefore be used 100% for sustainable industry, because every euro we put into fossil is not going to be sustainable. Does the Minister therefore feel that the following measures should be taken? The measure mentioned earlier is to make the support received by the fossil industry visible in the G20 context. I would also like to mention a phasing-out plan for the fossil industry, a review of the energy tax and an annual report on the carbon budget still available to the Netherlands. If the Minister feels for this, not only are Mr Van der Lee and I a happy man, then the whole of the Netherlands and the whole world are happy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you. Mrs Beckerman of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the previous speakers have already made very clear points, so I can be brief; that saves me. Over and over again, various rulers tell us that no support is being given to the fossil industry in the Netherlands at all. And over and over again that turns out to be the greatest possible nonsense. The absence of all kinds of exemptions, support measures and co-financing is making us look forward to it. However, the practice is designed in such a way that billions are channelled through the government to the fossil industry: €14,000 per minute. Just after Christmas there was another very poignant example. The State, i.e. the people at home, pays almost 50 million for departure premiums to the NAM, which is part of a billion-dollar Shell company. Meanwhile, the earthquake victims are still waiting for their money. Later today we will have a debate on this in the Chamber. The role of EBN, the State, is debatable anyway. Gas extraction must be reduced, but this state-owned company is committed to the same gas extraction. How are we going to get rid of fossil if the government is so intertwined with it? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Earlier, just under the scheme, it was asked that the contracts should finally be made public, so that we, as Members of Parliament, can have an insight into this. The Shells of this world make gold money destroying the climate. Why should we give these companies only one euro? Where's the moral awareness? It does not stop climate change by making word games, such as 'it is not a subsidy'. It is precisely the interconnectedness of the fossil industry and the state that causes the Netherlands to lag behind. In the different responses of the various directors there is one clear sound: if we do not, these poor companies will suffer from competition. Unbelievable! In the meantime, sustainable start-ups are allowed to compete with the fossil multinationals themselves and the promised money for climate finance is hopelessly lagging behind the urgency experienced by developing countries in their fight against climate change, while stopping these subsidies and exemptions does not cost money, but generates money. These billions can be better spent on sustainable and safe energy, on reducing household energy taxes, on supporting the isolation of their homes and on investing in the sustainability of the social rental sector. But time and time again the choice is made for the polluting business and we support the laying down of the burden of the damage done to households. You can choose different, too. Mr Van der Lee already included these examples in his speech. Like New York, the Roman Catholic Church, Norway and the World Bank, stop investing in and stimulating fossil energy and invest in a clean future. I agree with the specific proposals made by Mr Van der Lee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. If we want to leave our planet viable for generations after us, we want to prepare ourselves for the fact that fossil energy and fuels are just going on at some point and if we want to avoid becoming dependent on dubious regimes, then we need to take seriously the biggest challenge of our century, the energy transition. This coalition not only underlines this ambition, but also sets the bar well above the EU's commitment. This is the only way to achieve the Paris climate goal. Moreover, sustainability offers wonderful opportunities for our entrepreneurs. Our common goal is for our country to become a more sustainable country, but also a more prosperous one. As far as I'm concerned, this is the most important thing. As this cabinet shows, there is no need to exclude each other at all. Today we are talking about financial choices. This debate has been requested because it is said that the fossil industry is being subsidised by many billions. Questions have been asked about this regularly in recent years. Both the former Minister of EZ, Minister of Camp, and Secretary of State Dijksma have clearly stated several times that, unlike renewable energy, there is no incentive for fossil industry through subsidies. They did so in November 2011, June 2014, June 2015, May 2017 and October 2017; to name just a few dates. Mr. Chairman. Personally, I think it would be a good idea to complete this well-nulls game today. Because we have real work to do. In order to achieve the climate objective, it is important that we look forward realistically and take action. Let us not pretend that the Netherlands is not already doing this. We're already on our way. The Netherlands has many existing tax advantages aimed at sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would still like to ask one more question, through you, to my VVD colleague. The title of this debate is wider than subsidies. It's also about tax benefits. You call them when it comes to renewable energy. But there are also a number of tax incentives when it comes to fossil energy, because we compensate large users. For example, we spare inland waterway transport. It doesn't have to pay excise duty on diesel. At the very least, do you recognise that there are also tax incentives that are still encouraging the use of fossil energy for some people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	Well, stimulate. I think that's where we differ. Mr Van der Lee is of course right that resources also go to the fossil industry, but that also has a lot to do with stimulating innovation, for example. This also has to do with the fact that these companies create huge numbers of jobs for the hardworking Dutch that we also want to preserve. With what is being presented today and the questions that have been asked before, since 2011 and perhaps much earlier, it is as if the fossil industry is being subsidised, so that it would be given priority or promoted positively. And that is not the case. If Mr. Van der Lee asks me if we can work together to meet these climate goals and invest much more in and focus on renewable energy, we will find each other there. I hope that we will find each other there in the years to come, but I personally have finished the little-nothing game that my colleagues have had to play for me very often. That's not the point. It's about what we encourage so that it grows; innovation or not. I think I'm very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	The VVD colleague is clear, but also not entirely consistent, because there are measures that contain financial incentives to use fossil energy. This is particularly true for large-scale users and some forms of transport. I wonder whether, in the long term, if the share of renewable energy is increasing, which I would like to work with the VVD, it would also make sense to phase out this type of concession. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr Van der Lee once again says that there are all kinds of incentives to stimulate the use of fossil energy. And I say that the tax incentives that exist are also aimed at innovation and at maintaining those many jobs, which I believe are also occupied by Mr Van der Lee's supporters. This is about thousands of jobs. It is also about the international competitiveness of the Netherlands. In this debate everything is lumped together and then made a ruling on it. I'm trying to prove that this doesn't work and that this doesn't bring us any closer to our goal. It is indeed about definitions and calculations. I can put another ten calculations against that. I don't think we have that kind of time. I think we should just get to work to get to the climate targets and not pretend to actively stimulate and promote the use of fossil energy. Those days, we're not in there. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	I am curious about the ten calculations, but this aside. Does Mrs Yeşilgöz agree with the very simple reasoning that every euro that goes to a fossil investment does not go to a sustainable investment, when it comes to what the government does?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	No, because it was said, for example, that there is so much money going to a company like Shell. There is huge investment in innovation, which helps us greatly in developing renewable energy. It is easy and easy to say that this is the grey sector and it is not right, that this is the green sector and it is right, that there is nothing in between and so on. That's not how the world works. We also need this grey industry to invest in renewable energy and to ensure innovation, so that we can take all these steps together. I think it is also very special that we have this debate in this way, because that is where the big profits are going to be made in the context of innovation and renewable energy. Isn't it strange that on the other hand they're trying to push that away as something that's not right? So no, it's not that black and white and it's not that simple. We are already doing a great deal in the Netherlands, precisely to promote renewable energy, precisely to make it more accessible and more affordable. Then let's find each other in that and make some steps in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thanks for the answer. Am I to understand that Mrs Yeşilgöz says: are we going to invest in that grey area?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u17	As far as I am concerned, I also hope that I have the support for this. We are going to invest in innovation in order to take steps as quickly as possible in the field of renewable energy. We are having a very important debate tonight, including on the extraction of gas in Groningen and its impact on the Groningen people. If we are to reduce gas extraction, it is, of course, necessary to invest in other areas. That's where we'll find each other. If we are to have at some point an energy source or energy sources that are so large-scale that we can replace gas, for example, then we will have to invest in innovation. I very much believe in the start-ups with brilliant ideas, but I also believe in the big companies that say: we also see that things have to be different, and that is what we are going to work on. This is the only way to achieve the climate objectives, otherwise we will continue to discuss and philosophize in the margins, and I simply do not believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u18	The State contributed 50 million to the reorganisation of the NAM through EBN. That does not bring any climate goals closer, and that is not an investment in innovation. At the same time, the Groningers are still waiting for compensation for their damage. So the NAM gets money and the Groningen gets the acid. When I listen to you like that, you have wonderful proposals to invest in innovation, so I can only think that I find you on my side when I say that we reject this kind of amount, which we just transfer to the NAM. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u19	This is a very important issue, which I believe Mrs Beckerman said less than an hour ago: we should not discuss it today or in two weeks' time, but in a separate 30-member debate. So I'm looking forward to treating that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u20	I'm sorry, but I can't escape the impression that Mrs Yeşilgöz hasn't been paying attention. I have literally said: 'I am about to include this in the debate on support for the fossil industry'. So I would very much like an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mrs. Beckerman is free to include everything she wants to be involved with. We have just agreed to hold a separate debate on this, because this is not so black and white either, and this is not so simple. In the two months I have been a spokesperson, I have said it many times: we are facing the greatest challenge of our century, namely the energy transition. So let us stop pretending that we are going to achieve this with a simple button or with indignation or with a "can't be true!" We're gonna have to find each other here. We are going to debate separately the resources of the NAM. That 30-member debate is coming up. That is on the list of, unfortunately, three hundred other thirty-member debates. Then we will discuss this in detail. Today, I would like to reach the consensus that we are going to invest together in renewable energy and in the innovation needed for this. That is my aim for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mrs. Beckerman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u23	Yes, it is a bit strange, because this debate is about supporting the fossil industry. The NAM, a.k.a. Shell and Exxon, is a fossil industry and received 50 million from the State. You turn away from the question of whether or not you agree. Can you please answer this rather simple question, which simply belongs in this debate: do you or do you not think it is right that we should simply transfer 50 million to the fossil industry to help reorganise it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u24	I think it would be great if the world were that simple. At least the Minister comes up with a letter explaining exactly what the 50 million is about. That is what we are going to talk about in detail. This is the only way you can influence the direction we want to go with each other. It just doesn't work with continuous short-term bend indignation. I'll tell you that again tonight. Can I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u25	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u26	On the one hand, we raise nearly 12 billion in excise duties a year, and on the other hand, our tax system has many reductions for sustainable initiatives, such as environmental investment deductions and corporate tax. In addition, the Netherlands has relatively high environmental taxes compared to other OECD countries. We are the only OECD Member State to price more than 50% of total greenhouse gas emissions above the price applied. Many measures, including fiscal measures, are also mentioned in the coalition agreement. We green the taxes for Dutch people and companies. I would like to mention a number of measures. There is a shift in the energy tax on natural gas and electricity. Gas becomes more expensive, electricity becomes cheaper. Taxes on the incineration and landfill of waste are increasing. There will be environmental measures in air traffic. And we're modernising the netting arrangement. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet may be the most sustainable cabinet ever. Perhaps the opposition will try to undermine the cabinet's actions unjustly. I would regret that, because I hope we will find each other in the great and urgent objectives we are pursuing and the actions that are needed for this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you. Mrs Mulder from the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr President, thank you. This debate has been requested following the report of the Climate Action Network Europe. With regard to the report, I have a few comments to make. In fact, the report puts everything in one heap: taxes, subsidies, government participation. Let it be very clear: the CDA does not want direct subsidies for fossil energy. Fortunately, we do not do that in the Netherlands or in the rest of the European Union, as the figures of the International Energy Agency show. According to the Energy Agency, it is precisely China, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Russia, Venezuela and a number of other countries that are subsidising fossil fuels. We need to get rid of that, because we want to reduce CO emissions further because we want to get to Paris. As a country, we need an international level playing field. Our question to the Minister is therefore whether he is going to set an international deadline for reducing these direct subsidies for fossil fuels, so that the commitment to this end by 2025 is actually fulfilled. Supporting investment through a tax deduction or a state participation does not aim to keep energy from fossil sources cheap in the Netherlands. The investment deduction is therefore available for all sectors and is intended to promote investment in the Netherlands. This can therefore be investment in the gas and oil sectors, but also in terms of sustainability. Then the State participation of EBN is also mentioned in the report. It is precisely the aim of the Dutch State to benefit from the extraction of the mineral resources that we have, which gives legal certainty to these companies. Then it is very hard to find out that the same EBN contributes to the reorganisation costs of the NAM. My fellow Members have already made comments on this. My question then is how we should look at these operational costs. The CDA doesn't think it's like we're gonna pay for a private company this kind of expense. How can we prevent this for the future? There will be some further developments. Do we have to pay for the reorganisation costs of the NAM time and time again? It's the cost of a company with actually just expensive civil servants that we as a government, as a society pay. I think that's a lot to ask of all of us. To be honest, I am also surprised that such a company actually submits those costs. The fact that you might have figured out that you could file the charges is still up to that point, but that you're actually filing the charges says a lot about that company. I hope this company will come back on its feet and show towards the Groningers that it takes the damage protocol we're discussing tonight seriously. They have to stay in the loft for as long as they can until they figure it out. It's not gonna clap on a company like the NAM that's gonna file these charges, is it? I hope the NAM is listening today because they should be ashamed of themselves. Mr President, thank you. This is it from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u29	There is another question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u30	I fully agree with Mrs Mulder's last words, but I still have a question for my CDA colleague about the first part of her speech. I myself chose not to use the word subsidy here but to use the term financial or tax incentives. Indeed, these incentives are present. If you charge an intensive energy user lower than a private person, you give a financial incentive to continue fossil use. Does Mrs Mulder agree with me that if the transition continues, there should be a step-by-step reduction of this kind of tax concessions for large consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u31	I have already indicated in my speech that we are dealing with an international playing field that we want to be as right as possible. At the very moment when other countries are very keenly favouring their industries, we are of course simply suffering from this. We also want to keep our jobs. The trend as described by Mr Van der Lee today is that we are finally going to want less and less CO emissions. So everything that does contribute positively to increasing CO emissions will have to be reduced, but you will have to do so together. It is also the commitment of this cabinet that we are going to try to tackle all of this at European level. At the end of the day, these kinds of measures will come into play.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you. It is very good that Mrs Mulder agrees with me on that point. I'd like to go a little further. I would be delighted if she would ask the Minister to develop a proactive policy on this matter with me. Also in the context of the investment security for companies, it is relevant how the Dutch government intends to reduce this step-by-step. This seems to me to be very desirable for all concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u33	We asked the Minister to go on our behalf to form a coalition in Europe in order to speed up the reduction of CO, which is the main objective that we all have. It is very important for the CDA that there is also a level playing field. We attach great importance to employment. We want to prevent companies from being driven out of our country and then into another place in the world to emit even more CO, because otherwise, of course, we have achieved nothing. I see Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks now nodding in agreement. So at that point we might be able to find each other in the future, but I am concerned that we have that level playing field. I would, of course, like to hear what progress has been made by the Minister. We were in Bonn with the committee. There we have heard that the other countries are very happy that we are so ambitious. This affects not only me, but also our entire future and the children in the Netherlands. Then I think we should do this in a good way. I would like to hear from the Minister what progress has been made in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you. Mr Jetten van D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The alleged subsidies to the fossil industry: the minister's predecessor mentioned the subject of this debate last year in his response to a whole set of written parliamentary questions. "Alleged subsidies"; in other words, there is no subsidy at all to the fossil industry. And yet the Chamber asked questions about it, in 2017, in 2015, in 2014 and also in 2011. This was often the result of reports and news articles that showed that there is indeed such subsidies to the fossil industry. My first question to the new minister is therefore: to what extent does he think that there is or is not a subsidy for the fossil industry in the Netherlands? Does he share the position taken by his predecessor, Mr Iquot, Minister for Energy, that fossil fuels are not subsidised in the Netherlands, not even through fiscal measures? Mr Van der Lee has just argued a number of times that this is the case. Those questions are even more interesting when you consider that the G7, the large industrialised countries, concluded an important agreement last year, in which they agree that they will no longer grant public aid to fossil fuels by 2025. Europe and, therefore, the Netherlands joined this objective. D66 is pleased with that, because we want to make the switch to green energy and that does not include support for fossil fuels. I therefore have a question for the Minister: will he, following the G7 agreement, propose a plan specifically aimed at measures to be taken in the Netherlands in order to implement this in practice? I'd like to take a few examples out of it. Take, for example, biomass subsidies in coal-fired power stations. You could call that a subsidy for fossil fuels. Fortunately, in the coalition agreement, we agreed to stop it after 2024. That is an important step. How does the Minister view the extension of the SDE+ grant scheme for CO capture and storage in this context? To what extent will this CCS measure become indirect support for fossil fuels? How are we going to take that into account in the proposals that the Minister is going to make for the capture and storage of CO? In addition, there are always sectors in our country which, often in an international context, are emerging in the field of excise duties and taxes. For example, look at aviation, where there is no excise duty on kerosene and where no VAT is levied on airline tickets. We also agreed on this in the coalition agreement. Of course, we would prefer to do so in a European context, because we are talking about European markets. For these aspects, too, I would ask the Minister how he will achieve results in the coming years. What is his plan to bring all governments together at European level to stop exempting aviation and shipping from this type of excise duty? Mr. Chairman. Another aspect of this debate, which has also been raised a few times, is the whole financial sector. To what extent are loans and insurance from public institutions or with public money somehow involved in the promotion of fossil fuels? I want to take two examples out of it. The FMO and export credit insurer Atradius DSB are two major financial institutions that provide public money to enable Dutch companies to operate competitively on the world market. If you can believe the most recent reports and articles, there are considerable amounts involved, with the Netherlands indirectly supporting fossil projects abroad. Is this true? If so, how does the Minister feel about that? I believe that there is a need for a cultural change in this sector, because when the World Bank recently announced that it would no longer invest in the fossil industry, I had sent two of them to say that this was an important step of the World Bank. You don't want to know how many employees in the financial sector fell over that tweet. This says something about the culture and the way in which people still look at supporting fossil fuels in this sector. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. My final question is about transparency. Mr Van der Lee has just said something about this. The Phase-out 2020 report has shown, among other things, that the Netherlands is doing less well in terms of transparency than countries such as Germany and Italy, where they better map fossil and environmental subsidies. My question to the Minister would be: is he prepared to see what our neighbouring countries are doing better in this area and is he prepared to implement it in the Netherlands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u37	I agree with many of what Mr Jetten has said, but I have a specific question on the financial sector. As a result of another European debate that is now raging, I have the following question: do you need to impose higher capital requirements on investments in fossil fuels or lower capital requirements on investments in sustainable activities? I have a view on this, namely that it is better to impose higher capital requirements on fossil investments, because there are more risks. There must be write-downs, as has already been pointed out by De Nederlandsche Bank and other institutions. There's just risks there. What is the position of D66 in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u38	I am following this debate in Europe with great interest. I think it is too early to comment on the capital requirements that we would then have to impose on banks. But I had anticipated this question. That is why I brought along a motion by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Veldhoven, which was adopted by the Chamber in 2016. The motion calls on the government, in consultation with De Nederlandsche Bank and the financial sector, to identify how the financial institutions will contribute to the objective of 1.5 ̊C of the Paris Agreement and to consider what measures the sector can support in order to make the climate intensity of loans and investments of the Dutch financial sector more transparent. I believe that the questions that Mr Van der Lee has just put are entirely in line with this motion. We have seen in the written reply that the Ministry is still in the process of implementing the motion. I propose that we give his justified question to the Minister and then we look forward to a proposal if the implementation of the motion actually leads to a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u39	Of course, I am happy with that, but still a question. Will the position of D66 be clear rather than the position of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u40	The Chamber asked the government by way of a motion to come forward with proposals. That's what I'm looking at with interest. But let's be clear: D66 is fully committed to the energy transition. This means that all parties involved in energy must move from fossil to green. This means that the financial institutions and everyone who invests in them must also take up their role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u42	Thank you, Mr President. A debate on the fossil sector and fossil fuels. Let me drop the door: it is a silly debate, requested by GroenLinks, a party that sits like a small child in a sandbank, because it would most love to banish this entire sector and everything that has to do with fossil. To protect their own energy and climate ideology. Indeed, the fossil sector is a success, and that is, of course, stark against the bottomless well called energy transition. GroenLinks therefore presents a report showing that the Dutch government is financially supporting the fossil sector. The left thinks this is a problem, because the left thinks fossil is bad. In the meantime, the government has already responded by letter. She writes that the money is not intended to stimulate the use of fossil energy and to favour it over the use of renewable energy. However, it is aimed at stimulating innovation and strengthening the competitiveness of the Netherlands. Could the Minister please explain this? If the government stops financially supporting fossil, what exactly does that have for innovation and competitiveness? And what impact does this have on, for example, economic growth, jobs and energy security? Left makes a problem of every penny that goes to fossil. But let us not forget: what about the many, many billions that go towards sustainable energy and climate policy? Is that forgotten on the left, is that okay with the left or does it all matter? GroenLinks and the Party for Animals have already asked to map out exactly how much money is going to fossil. Then my request to the Minister is whether he can also identify exactly how much is going to be spent on sustainability. Can he map that out sometime? All subsidies, everything related to climate policy? Because, for example, how much subsidy is going to windmills? There are even farmers with windmills on their land who become very wealthy, who become multimillionaires. Yes, multimillionaire of subsidies, in the Netherlands all that can be done! The Minister said that all economic growth will be reserved for the energy transition over the next 30 years. A worse stimulus for economic growth is almost unthinkable. Does that mean: the more economic growth, the more energy transition goes? I'd like a response. If that is the case, then we are simply talking about hundreds of billions that will simply be thrown away. Hundreds of billions, raised by the citizens whose energy bill will rise and rise, just as long as no one can pay the bill and people literally sit in the dark. By 2030, as it now appears, citizens will lose around €600 to €720 extra to climate action per year. So that's extra, on top of the already towering energy bill. The PVV will never accept that. We continue to stand up for the citizens and a lower energy bill. One million households already live in energy poverty. People just can't afford it anymore. That's outrageous, but you don't hear about it on the left. No one here in this debate is talking about this, and this is precisely what we need to talk about, namely affordability or, more precisely, unaffordability. The mouth is full of money going to fossil, but when it comes to sustainability miserable and the ever-increasing energy bill, the jaws stay on top of each other. But the left must not forget: it is precisely because of the energy and climate policy of this left-wing government, which is trying to keep a deadly renewable energy sector alive with subsidies, that every kind of innovation turns its back, that fossil fuels remain the future for the time being, or GroenLinks and other parties like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you. Finally, Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. If we want to be sure of a viable earth, then we really must now work to solve the climate and energy crisis. The PvdA thinks everyone should contribute. This also means that shipping and aviation must also make their contribution. The PvdA believes that the costs should really be distributed fairly. It is not acceptable for citizens to bear increasing burdens and for aviation and shipping to be spared. As far as the PvdA is concerned, it's time to take off the velvet glove. I have some questions for the Minister. Does the Minister share the view that the implicit subsidy ship for energy-slurping sectors such as maritime and aviation should be shifted? Are you prepared to make an international effort to do so and to do so? Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister also prepared to tackle the excise duty exemption, particularly in the aviation sector, and to phase it out step by step? What exactly does his route look like? I said earlier that we do not think it acceptable that citizens should make an increasing contribution in the form of increasing energy taxes and that aviation should be spared. I am also aware that the burden will be borne by citizens, but citizens also have options. This also means that other alternative forms of transport, such as high-speed lines, can become much more competitive, especially when travelling within Europe. This competitive relationship, i.e. between rail and air transport, also needs to be changed. The letter states that subsidies on fossil fuels strengthen innovation. That is to the taste of the PvdA but moderate. My question to the Minister is whether he would like to inform the Chamber more transparently about this. Is he willing to encourage EBN to invest more and faster in generating clean energy? The question is whether he wants to work on that. The PvdA believes that EBN should do more and can also contribute more quickly to the production of renewable energy. Mrs Mulder made a point of the reorganisation costs at EBN. That's also something that hits me. In the Christmastreces you have time to read the paper quietly. For example, I read in Het Financieele Dagblad of 27 December in the section of Bartjens that the reorganisation costs of the NAM were rather high. The redundancy costs per employee were €278.000. That's a big deal. This is significantly above the legal standard of €77,000 or one year's salary. What does the Minister think about the NAM's payment of higher severance payments than laid down in the law? Does he think that's correct? What's his verdict on that? Mr. Chairman. As far as the PvdA is concerned, it is clear that it must apply to everyone: the polluter pays. The same applies to aviation and shipping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you. Before you leave the chair, Mr. Jetten has one more question for you, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A fine speech by Mr Moorlag, including on aviation and on sectors that we can also tackle in the Netherlands. I am therefore always pleased to see what we can learn from the past few years, so that we can give this minister concrete tasks. In recent years we have had a number of PvdA executives. The Secretary of State for Aviation, the Secretary of State for Railways and the Minister for Finance seem to have failed to remove those velvet gloves, become a leading group and achieve real concrete results. What did we run into? What has the PvdA Group come up against in recent years and failed? And what else do we have to do to get it done in this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u47	The energy transition is a long-term issue. I sometimes describe it as swimming in yogurt: it's heavy and you're progressing slowly. I think that was the case in the previous cabinet. I am very pleased that strong ambitions have been included in the coalition agreement. The PvdA has faith in this minister. I also understand that the task is to detach a 12 meter pile from the ground, but I think that it really must succeed if a leading group is to be formed in Europe. It has been our ambition over the past few years to work on this. The ambition of the PvdA is also to work on it now, which is why I call on the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u48	Okay, thank you very much. The Minister has indicated that he can respond immediately, so I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr. Chairman. Maybe we should follow the suggestion that we should not too much chopping about definitions. I have to say something about this, but let me start by saying how I think that we should perhaps think about this subject in all political terms as we do here. When we talk about fossil fuels, we're talking about negative externalities. That's what economists say. I've been accused of economics once, but it's got to go in. It actually means: if you're causing mess, you have to clean it up yourself or pay for it yourself. That is also what I stand for as a liberal in this cabinet. That's orderly. We're not here to flicker the garbage bags over the balcony. If you cause climate damage or damage to air quality, you should pay for it. Perhaps Mr Kops agrees, because he does not want the garbage bags to be thrown over the balcony. Mr Van der Lee agrees with that. As complicated as the world is, we try to do it. Wherever possible, we try to do so as close to the source as possible. Then it becomes more visible and more involved in the balancing. We'd love to. For me, that truth is just as good. If you are asking me whether it is subsidies, incentives and incentives, I am telling you honestly: this is not an orderly list. That's what I want to say. At the same time, given the principle I have just explained, it deserves a price that aviation and shipping are different. In all honesty: I think the world and the Netherlands still have a long way to go. If we had properly priced the negative external effects, we would not need a lot of subsidies and a lot of things would have gone easier. That's a fact. We can talk about that list for a long time. There will also be no new insights from the discussion. Isn't double taxation of something a grant? There are very few people in this Chamber who do not think that double taxation is a subsidy. Neither does Mr Van der Lee. I can look him right in the eye. The list is a statement, but it's not the answer. A lot of those things don't discriminate between fossil and non-fossil. I can't really make a grant out of it. The promotion of savings or compensation for damage is not a subsidy for fossil either. But let's get rid of that for a while. In my view, we do not need the list to dare to say that there is still a way to go in a sensible way to price it in such a way that everyone is responsible for cleaning up their own mess. The Netherlands doesn't get 10, but the Netherlands is one of the better boys in the class. In fact, we belong to the group that no longer has to take an entrance exam for further education. Both in the EU and in the OECD, we are somewhere at the top of the overload. Do we always do that in the best possible way? No, I'm sure you don't, but we're doing pretty good. Again and again we come out in the rankings like a country that does it properly. The coalition agreement continues to swim in Mr Moorlag's yogurt, because, yes, we are going to do something about the waste tax again. In addition, we follow exactly the same idea. With regard to energy taxation, there is an increase in the levy on natural gas. I would also mention the CO-bottom price for energy generation, the mileage tax for lorries and the flight tax. All these things we do. It can all go faster, but then you have to start wondering, are we an island? No, we're not. Mr Van der Lee always encourages me not to immediately think that industries are leaving every breath of headwind, but it doesn't take any effort to present a few examples of numbers on the basis of which we can show that a complete reasonable shadow price of CO or fine dust would immediately lead to the disappearance of all production of a particular article from the Netherlands, after which it is produced in countries that are doing it less clean and less efficient than we are doing, which means that we lose jobs and have a climate effect. I also think that this is the second point where I would perhaps link left and right. No one is in favour of a measure that will lead to job losses and a deterioration of the climate; this cannot be done. We continue to strive for the ideal world. That's where we're getting closer and closer. In the coalition agreement, we have written that we want to work together with the neighbouring countries, with the European countries, just for this sort of thing. We want to do this in an appropriate way with other countries, because if you do that with more countries, then the leakage effect is smaller and there really is a greater motivation to do so. Many Members in the Chamber are right to ask for more transparency. In fact, after my speech they have much more reason to ask for transparency, because if I do not think this is an orderly list, then it is very easy to ask what is an orderly list. That is not even easy, by the way. If I were to think about it myself, I would be interested from the economic point of view in the difference between the negative external effects, so the garbage bag that threatens to go over the balcony, and the tax associated with it. If that tax is too low, if you pay too little for the pollution you cause, then you're actually passing it on to the collective. If the levy is higher, then you fill the state treasury, which is not the intention at all. That's an important thing. The Planning Office for the Environment occasionally investigates this. There's state of it, too. Those are very insightful states. There's always an explanation, too, because we don't do things for nothing. That in itself is very transparent. I am sensitive to the suggestion of including something in the INEK, for example. Let me just look into how that could be. The INEK is not yet here, but is being prepared. I will also cheat on the neighbouring countries. When I did that this morning, I looked at the sites, however, I also saw lists that I wasn't immediately thrilled about. I have to tell you the truth. I didn't think it was all an A-plus. The OECD keeps track of things. The G20 also has a methodology for this. I'll see how I could take this in such an INEK-like scheme. I'll see if I can put something together. Then we'll just have to talk about it sometime. But if my predecessors continue to reject all these lists, then at some point the question is what is a good list. Well, that's so neat. I'm sensitive to that, too. Then I am somewhat disappointed, because many of my colleagues have busy things to do. However, the Chamber asks a number of questions that lie in the field of my colleagues, such as the question about capital requirements. It is obvious that financial institutions will at some point, not only in terms of risk, but also in terms of return, consider that not everything that is on all kinds of balance sheets will necessarily be won. In all honesty, in the north of this country we benefit from the fact that part of it stays in the ground. None of this is a secret, but I do not have very many sensible texts on it, because it really is in the area of the Minister of Finance. I can't do much more than pass the question on to him. I just don't know the latest state of affairs. I'm just telling you the truth. It hasn't been my turf so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u50	I understand that, but it is a bit pressing, because the debate on this issue is taking place in Europe. The Netherlands has not yet taken a position in this regard. Is the Minister prepared, with his colleague Hoekstra at least, to ensure that before 1 April it is clear where the Netherlands stands in this respect? I would prefer to refer to the position I would like to see, namely that higher capital requirements are imposed on investments in fossil activities. The latter does not need to be admitted by the Minister now, but it should be possible to clarify the date I have requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u51	That is good, because I need to talk to my colleague to see where we stand and what date you could do something about it. I will pass on the question to my colleague, but I cannot answer for him. We're nothing like each other either. I'm not his twin brother, so it's hard for me to say anything about it. I will pass on the question with all the goodwill, but the question clearly belongs there as well. This issue also relates to a wide range of policies concerning pension funds, financial institutions, and capital requirements. In the broader perspective, the answer to this question is in better hands with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u52	If the Minister is speaking to his colleague in the finance sector, I would like to take this opportunity to raise another issue. Investment in offshore wind farms is currently also subject to bank guarantees for cleaning up windmills, whereas this does not happen, for example, in the construction of fossil fuel extraction platforms. Could he also see if he and his colleague could reach a level playing field at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u53	Let me first check Mr Van der Lee's observation and then see how I can proceed with that, because I did not have this circumstance on the retina. Thanks for the suggestion. Mr Van Raan is asking me very strongly about the carbon budget. I don't think that's the first time. I say to Mr Van Raan once again that we like to be ambitious, not in terms of carbon budgets, but in terms of percentages. 49%, that's what we can be seen with. I think that at the international conference of parties for animals, Mr Van Raan is taking the bait. He can be proud of that. The Netherlands is committed to 49%. That is the way we do it. We have all kinds of agreements about that. He specifically emphasizes the transparency that I have just spoken about. In terms of annual reporting, I simply want to do so along the CO reduction and not along a carbon budget, because, as has been said, we do not have an objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u54	I thank the Minister for the answers. It's the story of shore and ship. The government chooses to see the percentages as the ship, but you also have the shore and that's the carbon budget. Does the Minister at least agree with the Animal Party that there is such a thing as a carbon budget in this world and that that is a real concept, that it is not fictitious; in other words, that it must be taken into account at some point? Or does the Minister not consider a carbon budget to be useful at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u55	A concept used by a popular representative such as Mr Van Raan is never an illusion. I can see he's counting on that. The Dutch government works with the percentage and focuses on it. I can't just translate one thing into another, but I'm sure he'll try.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u56	It's nice that the Minister gives me all kinds of traits, like it's about what Mr. Van Raan thinks about that. Of course, that's not the point. The point is that the IPCC has calculated a budget and that there are scientific treatises about it. So it's not some hobby Mr. Van Raan or the Party for Animals has. Does the Minister agree that it is a real scientific fact that there are scenarios in which carbon budgets exist and that this could be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u57	Mrs Beckerman warned us about word games about subsidies. Now let's not play word games about the shore and the ship either. I do not want to say anything negative in any way about the concept of 'carbon budget'. I have no idea about that either. I'm just saying that the Dutch government works by a percentage. I hope that Mr Van Raan in turn recognises that 49% is an ambitious percentage. I'm looking at him right now, but he's not saying anything. I have to do it with this. Then Mrs. Beckerman. I'm gonna go into the 50 million question later. The most important question she asks is: how do we get rid of the gas when the government is so intertwined with it? No, that's not a contradiction at all. It was a logical step in 1959 to do what happened then. There are other logical steps now, and we must commit ourselves to that. I intend to show tonight what extreme effort I am making to get off the gas, indeed with a role that will only become more public than it has ever been. I don't see that contradiction. I would like to talk about this tonight, because that is a point that everyone here thinks is important and so do I. On the openness of the gas building: virtually all of it is now public, only individual contracts are not. But let me also say something about contracts tonight, because it will be clear that we should not assume that what is in each contract should necessarily be the intention for both parties to live up to, because we actually want to go down faster. That's what we want. I find the 50 million question a little less astonishing than many people present, I say honestly. The State has been participating in the extraction of gas through EBN since 1963. We simply agreed that we would get part of the costs and part of the revenue as a State. By the way, we get a significantly higher share of the revenue than the cost. Take the proceeds and the costs off each other and you've got the gas benefits. That's all there is to it. And what's the cost? Those are just regular charges. Everything that has to do with hiring, keeping in service or letting employees leave service, for example, but also simply letting the assets run and maintain. That's always been the cost since 1963. And again, we bear a lower percentage of the costs than we get from the benefits. Those are the agreements and so the gas benefits arise. That's all magic is behind it. I also really distance myself from the word "got." No one got anything. A distribution of revenues and costs has already been agreed at the time, and we are sticking to that. Is everything that is now the same as it should remain in the future? Once again, I would like to say a few words about this tonight, because the answer is probably no. But here's the thing, and there's nothing new about that. I'm going through the imaging with you, but here's how it's just contractual. I think I took Mrs Yeşilgöz's points with me. Mrs Mulder asks me if I am going to get rid of the subsidies, because they are not technical; let us say 'the better incentives'................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Yeah, explicitly. That is one of the cores of the coalition agreement on this point. We want to be more ambitious, but we want to be more ambitious with other countries. The word "gender" has therefore been chosen too lightly. I would suggest a heavier word to Mrs Mulder. We're gonna talk about the progress some other time. We're talking to all kinds of countries, but there's still some time before you get out with a lot of countries. But we have that time, too. They're just working on it nicely. I have to admit that I have to pay attention to another dossier every now and then, but it certainly doesn't stand still. Mr Jetten asks what we think about FMO and Atradius also interfering with projects that could be characterised as fossils. I think that here we should try to achieve greening in a different way than we would want to frustrate foreign investment or put the Netherlands behind abroad. Addressing a Dutch offer does not help to reduce demand. The problem is rooted in the question. That is why I do not want to organise greening through Atradius, but through not only international but also national agreements. We must be ambitious in this, but the fossil test at these organizations does not help us, I think. Mr Kops wants to know if stopping support for fossil leads to less growth. My answer is that there is no technical subsidy, so that does not lead to less growth either. I hope that makes me reassuring in his direction, but he also asks how much goes to "I'll choose my own words "Sustainability Support." This is, among other things, what is stated in all kinds of additions from the EU and the OECD. That is where we stand, perhaps to the sorrow of Mr Kops, with environmental taxes somewhere in the upper regions. Moreover, he simply reads in the budget the various regulations that exist, the largest of which is the SDE+.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u58	Before you proceed, Mr Van Raan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just triggered by the story about Atradius. Atradius assures risks that the market does not really want to insure. That's how you end up with government funding. Many of them are fossil investments. The Minister says that he does not want the greening to run through the supply, but through demand. At the same time, he says: I can't actually do anything national, because then I run companies across the border, and once I chase those companies across the border, they're going to produce somewhere else and then they're polluting too, so I can't actually get that. He wants to do it internationally. At the same time, therefore, he indicates what his national situation is. So in so many words, he admits his powerlessness. He can't do anything, because if he does, the companies will leave. In short, we are dealing here with a powerless minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u60	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u61	The question is: does he think so himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u62	No, I don't. After this creative mix in which the word "international" is used in all kinds of different ways, the answer is simply no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u63	And this has given rise to a question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u64	Yes, because I find that a little too easy, also because we just had a discussion on how to promote or slow down certain things via the financial route. The question is also whether Atradius makes the right risk analyses when it comes to fossil activities. This is happening in other areas, including them. In this respect, the Netherlands has every interest in ensuring that very adequate risk analyses are applied. The Minister would like to make a point of this, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u65	I strongly support the right risk analysis, even when it comes to Atradius, but the type of risks that Atradius typically covers are risks that really have to do with international business. Look, the thought behind that is also a bit of this. If an entrepreneur does business abroad without cover of credit insurance, he may have to deal with regimes that have different payment morals and ways of doing business. Then it may be that the foreign government behaves towards the Dutch exporting companies in a way that we would not find fit in with our role. It turns out that, if export credit insurance is covered by some kind of national guarantee, these countries are going to behave more diplomatically towards that Dutch exporter, because they know that the struggle will not be with an individual exporter, but with another country. That is the type of risk covered, for example, by the ecv. That is in itself separate from the predicate fossil. Moreover, I share Mr Van der Lee's view that good risk analysis, including with regard to fossil, is always important. You can't argue with that. Another point: I do not hear Mr Kops say no either. Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Moorlag that the tax treatment of fuel consumption in maritime and air transport does not, according to our economic model at the start of this debate, deserve a charter. At the same time, I said what is in the coalition agreement. But I also have to say here that this is something that really needs to be discussed with the Minister of IenW. These are sectors to which I still have some political distance. The initiatives on aviation are clear. Quite frankly, I cannot say much sensible about shipping, other than my introduction at the beginning. An important question from Mr Moorlag is what could be a role of EBN in renewable energy. We are dealing with a party that, of course, has excellent expertise on the subsurface. It has so far been mainly used in gas extraction. That is no secret, but that expertise could also be used in a very different way, for example in geothermal energy. We shouldn't throw that away. We need to think this through. When I say "we," I actually mean "I," because you can think about it, but you'll look at me before that. We need to think carefully about roles in which that can happen. I expect that the climate agreement should also have an important role to play in geothermal energy. We really need to draw on that to an important extent. That is a technique that we really need to push forward. Indeed, we really need to think about the role that EBN could play in this, because the subsurface is, as we know, an area where little is known about it. But EBN still comes relatively far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u66	I can see from the Minister's words that EBN can contribute to accelerating, for example, geothermal energy. This is ideally in the domain of EBN. I hear the Minister say that he thinks that acceleration should be achieved. He says we need to think about that. Does he want to share the fruits of that reflection on how he's going to shape that acceleration in the fairly short term with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u67	I can't say no to that. I cannot give much clarity on the question of how long that is. But if we have to implement geothermal energy, for example, it seems reasonable to me that we should have the sharper roles in geothermal energy in mind. To what extent EBN can play a role in this, we need to be able to talk to each other. So I admit it, but I don't have a clear picture of the deadline yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u68	If we want to speed things up, then of course it should not take too long. I think the Minister will agree with me. Does the Minister also intend to include in that letter what this acceleration is about, what his ambition is in it and what arrangements he will make with EBN?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u69	Agreed. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u70	I can imagine that over the last few days we have dealt mainly with other subjects, but I would like to remind you that, in dealing with the budget of this minister, the Chamber has adopted a motion from me and Mrs Mulder, who I believe has been supported by Chambers, in which the Chamber says that EBN should participate up to 40% in geothermal energy, as we have always done in the case of oil and gas. If I remember correctly, the Minister promised that in the spring of this year we would get his entire analysis of geothermal energy with an opportunity card and a concrete proposal on how EBN will participate. I would like to ask, for the sake of clarity and in addition to what Mr Moorlag has already asked, whether we can assume that in the first half of this year we will have a plan of how to get EBN geothermal energy off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u71	Yes, but I had to keep a specific date for Mr Moorlag, and that will remain the case. I think I'm out of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u72	Perhaps that is not the case for Mr Moorlag. He has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u73	I don't think so. Mrs Mulder said something about the redundancy payments at the NAM, which were co-financed by EBN. My question to the Minister was whether he considered it acceptable that the level of dismissal allowances was significantly above the legal ceiling. Does he think it is realistic and legitimate that these redundancy payments are above that level? And is the Minister prepared to make changes to that? I had referred to the Financial Daily of 27 December, in which this was mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u74	Sorry, I don't know about a legal limit. What has happened is that the government has requested further information in its role of shareholder or of EBN. It had it examined whether this was an appropriate cost item and whether it was a post to be borne in the context of shareholder relations. It came out that it was. I don't have any further insight into the management of the NAM, and I shouldn't have any. So that test is done. But I do not have any further judgements on this, other than that it is the share that EBN bears, provided that it has been audited and walked in a proper manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u75	In that section in the Financial Daily, Bartjens to be concrete from 27 December, it is really calculated finely. It also says what the legal ceiling is, namely €77,000 or an annual salary. That is the maximum remuneration for dismissal as laid down by law under the previous cabinet. What is also apparent from that article is that the redundancy allowance is certainly at the level of around a quarter of a million, which is certainly a tonne above the average salary at the NAM. It is therefore clearly above the legal limit. My question to the Minister is whether he thinks it is acceptable that EBN should contribute to redundancy payments which have a level significantly higher than the legal ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mr. Chairman. It turns out that I didn't read the FD of December 27th. I really don't have a judgment on that. There's been an audit. If that is a lawful post............................................................................................................................................................................................................. I just don't have any further judgements on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u77	Would you like to inform us by letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u78	I'm gonna think about whether it's my position to inform you by letter. But at least I will inform you by letter about the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u79	I would suggest that we return to this in the second term. Mrs. Mulder has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u80	Well, at this point, I'd like to ask. Because if we just have a legal limit and here it turns out we haven't been held on to it, that might be strange. So I can also imagine that the Minister needs to know exactly what that is about. If that's what's in the paper, can't we ask for that calculation ourselves? And if she's above it, then what? When we talk about the future, the Minister just in response to myself went into what EBN and everything in the future should or should not be and what about cost distributions. I consider this point by Mr Moorlag to be relevant. I therefore support his request for a more detailed explanation of the legal ceiling. Because then it certainly doesn't fit to go over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u81	I do not deny that I have become curious as a result of Mr Moorlag's contribution, but I have no idea whether I am in a position to have views on it. But I've agreed to dive in and let you know. If I'm in a position to have opinions on that, I'm also giving them opinions. Not an evil word about it; this I have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u82	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Let me look at the Members: is there a need for a second term? There is. We shall then proceed immediately and give the floor to Mr Van der Lee, with two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u84	It's even less, one minute and twenty seconds, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u85	I'll be brief. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I am also grateful for the fact that he does not want to talk about definitions, but actually recognises that there are measures that would be included on a list. I also hope that he has also convinced his partymate that there are measures that we want to get rid of in the long term. Let me put it this way, because I don't want to go over it again. What I am also positive about is the particular willingness I am trying to do something about it, also within the framework of the integrated national climate and energy plan to be drawn up. I think it would be a good idea to put that in a motion. Let me have it prepared by chance. So I'm gonna read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the continued existence of certain tax incentives undermines the Dutch climate objectives;]] [[calls on the government to include proposals to phase out such incentives in the integrated national climate and energy plan to be drawn up, and to accelerate them as sustainable alternatives become more available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Raan and Mr Jetten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-271]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u86	That's pretty quick. I just wanted to read out my second motion. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u87	Very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u88	Here's to it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas investments in fossil energy may entail financial risks and contribute to financial instability;]] [[Whereas there is currently a debate in the EU on whether the right capital requirements can contribute to reducing financial risks and promoting sustainable transitions;]] [[calls on the Government to take a position on raising capital requirements for investments in fossil energy and to inform the Court of Justice before 1 April,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Lee, Beckerman, Moorlag and Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u89	I'm sorry about the passing of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. We're moving on to Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u91	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in order to limit the temperature increase to a maximum of 1.5°C, which the Paris countries set out as their ambition, the global carbon budget is less than 600 billion tonnes to 2050;]] [[noting that a reduction target for 2050 does not guarantee the reduction of temperature increase to 1.5°C because it does not take sufficient account of the carbon budget;]] [[calls on the government to report annually, in addition to the emission reduction achieved, the remaining carbon budget of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Raan, Van der Lee, Moorlag and Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-273]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the USA, China, Mexico and Germany have already preceded the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the Netherlands to participate in the G20 peer review process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to identify fossil subsidies and tax benefits and to draw up a plan for phasing out state aid to the fossil industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Raan, Van der Lee, Jetten, Moorlag and Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-274]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Raan, Van der Lee, Moorlag and Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u93	Certainly, with 30 seconds of speaking time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by Motivaction shows that the transition to renewable energy is supported by four out of five inhabitants;]] [[Whereas IMF research indicates that the energy transition is significantly accelerated if fossil energy is sufficiently taxed;]] [[points out that fossil-free should be the cheapest alternative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Raan, Van der Lee, Moorlag and Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr. Van Raan, thank you very much. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u96	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Energy Management Netherlands (EBN) as a state-owned company invests in the fossil industry;]] [[noting that the Dutch government has a direct interest in maximising the profits of gas (and oil) extraction through this company;]] [[Considers that this does not bring any solution to the earthquake problem;]] [[considers that this undermines sustainability policy;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a vision of the role of EBN, with the release of fossil interests and the focus on renewable energy as the starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Van Raan and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u98	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. It appears to me that Mrs Yeşilgöz and Mrs Mulder are not taking part in the second term. I call Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mr. Chairman. I asked in the first period whether, in addition to transparency, the Minister would present a concrete action plan to comply with the G7 agreements. We also discussed the financial institutions and the contribution they have to make in order to comply with that 1.5°C in the first period. I was not quite enthusiastic about the Minister's reply, so I would ask him to send a new state of affairs to the Chamber by 1 May at the latest with regard to the implementation of the Dik-Faber/Van Veldhoven motion. If we really want to achieve the Paris climate ambitions, we must also prevent the financial institutions from continuing to facilitate all kinds of fossil projects. Mr. Chairman. I am going to deal specifically with the issue of credit and export insurance. I thought that was disappointing. At the end of last year, we were with the committee at the Bonn climate summit. The minister was there, too. Among other things, this summit focused on the effects of climate change on vulnerable countries. If we have the ambition here in the Netherlands to save 49% and if we want to be a leading group in Europe to do that, then it would be very strange if, on the other hand, we were to facilitate that Dutch companies are in fossil projects. I understand we can't stop doing that overnight. Nor is it in the interests of the Netherlands and our companies that make a lot of money abroad. But I think it would be wise if we put a dot on the horizon at some point and say: from that year onwards, the Netherlands will stop funding such exports and activities. I would nevertheless like a more detailed answer from the Minister in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u100	Thank you very much. Then Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mr President, thank you. Thanks also to the Minister for the reactions. But it is disappointing that, like all the other parties in this Chamber, he has not said a word about the energy bill, not a word about the rising costs for the citizens, and not a word about unaffordability. Mr. Chairman. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy has said that all economic growth will be reserved for the energy transition over the next 30 years;]] [[having regard to the fact that, in 2030, citizens, in addition to the already towering energy bill, will lose between €600 and €720 extra per year on climate action;]] [[calls on the government to remove its expensive climate policy and to ensure that citizens' energy bills fall,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u103	Thank you. Finally, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I would like to say something about the last point that has been raised, the level of redundancy payments. I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister will come forward with further information on this matter. The minister is the sole shareholder, say shareholder-owner of EBN. If you are obliged to contribute to reorganisation costs, this must be done within the standards of the law. I therefore very much appreciate the fact that the Minister is sending a letter on this subject which looks not only at the legal aspect, but also at the moral aspect, and which also indicates the extent to which he is willing and able to adjust the level of dismissal allowances to legal standards. This is particularly true in view of the fact that the NAM in Groningen is too small to spend any more euros on compensation to citizens. Then it cannot be that you grant redundancy payments that are on average a tonne above the average personnel cost of an employee of the NAM. They're already high. The level of redundancy payments is €278.000. The average staff cost is above €140,000. That way, the church gets higher than the tower. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you. The minister says he needs a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u106	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u107	Mr. Chairman. The first motion, the motion in part No. 271, is in line with the commitment I made. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. It will surprise no one that I have the motion in part no. 272 must be forwarded to the colleague of Finance. I have not prepared an opinion from the cabinet on this. The third motion, the motion in part No. 273 by Mr Van Raan, I must advise against. He won't be surprised. What is against the fourth motion, the motion in part No. 274 on the peer review process? Nothing. I shall leave the judgment on that motion to the Court's judgment. The fifth motion, the motion in part No. 275, concerns a plan to phase out state aid to the fossil industry. I guess we're gonna get in the wrong grip again. I will go into better incentives in that INEK, but I can only dissuade the motion as it is here. But I think I have in mind whatever the proposers might want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u108	Before proceeding, Mr Van Raan has a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 275.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u109	I thank the Minister for the answer and the suggestion. I could, of course, imagine that we would amend the motion in the sense that it is about making a plan for making better incentives. Does that change the Minister's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u110	I think we have some kind of handshake agreement not to discuss what a fossil subsidy is and what a tax advantage is, but to have the goal in mind. If the motion only states "calls on the government to seek better incentives," that is about my commitment. I think we need to do something about the commitment I made. We're gonna do that in that INEK and then we're gonna have a discussion on that. Let's do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u111	Clear. Then the motion to part No. 276.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u112	I don't think I need to dwell on that. The Chamber's making a statement. That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u113	Yeah, the room's making a statement. In principle, this motion does not appeal to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u114	That's right. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u115	As a result of the Minister's reply, we are withdrawing the motion in part No. 275 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u116	Since the motion-Van Raan c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u117	On the motion in part No. I am therefore not giving any judgment. I'm not saying I'm leaving the judgment to the Chamber either. The motion is simply not addressed to me. She's in the pile, but she's wrong. Then the motion to part No. 277. If I may say "calls on the government to come up with a vision for the future of the role of EBN and to focus on renewable energy"... With letting go of the financial interests as a unique goal, I have a little trouble. I would suggest to the proposers to call on the government to focus that vision on a future role of EBN in the sustainability of our energy supply. If we are talking here explicitly about 'the release of financial interests', let us not do so on an afternoon-to-afternoon in a motion. Tonight, we are going to talk intrusively about certain financial interests. So I must discourage the motion in this form. With the suggestion I have just made, I leave it to the Chamber, but as the motion is now before us, I must advise her against it. The motion in part No. I can only advise against 278 of Mr Kops. I would like to answer one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u118	Yes, but does Mr Van der Lee have a specific question about a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u119	I would like to return to the motion for a resolution on item No. 272, because the Minister indicated that he could not yet give an opinion. Can he indicate when he can make a judgment, so that I may be able to hold the motion until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u120	The Minister has indicated that he cannot give an opinion, because the motion is in another policy area and with a colleague. That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u121	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u122	Yeah, but he also wanted to talk to that colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u123	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u124	No, he'd lead it through. But that is actually a bit difficult, because we are in this debate. I would therefore advise you to hold this motion if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u125	That's exactly what I was after. So I want to arrest her. I hope, then, that the Minister of Finance will be prepared, through this Minister, to give an opinion on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u126	You can hold the motion and then, if necessary, submit it in a debate with the person in charge. And then you can get a ruling on that. Or you cannot present her now and retable her in a debate in which it makes more sense to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u127	I'm gonna hold her on right now and come back to this at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u128	Okay. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr. Chairman. Mr Jetten has pointed out one point to me in the motion for a resolution, which I have noted, but he has also asked two questions about the G7 action plan. In all honesty, I say: it may sound very silly, but I don't really know any G7 action plan. I do not want to comment on this now either, because I would have to look into it first. He indicated that he was not satisfied with the answer on the subject of the Ekv. That is possible, but for this I really must refer him to the rulers who are going to do so. I will pass that question on to colleagues Kaag and Snel. I am sure that Mr Jetten has full confidence in these two rulers and in their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u130	I know where to find the other two rulers. I thank this Minister for his suggestion. The G7 action plan, which I referred to, is an agreement that the G7 concluded last year to stop investing in fossil industries as G7 countries from 2025. I hope I have helped the Minister with this. I have every confidence that he will look into it further. Now that I'm here, I'm gonna have to get the next thing off my chest. In the coming years, we are going to have more discussions about when this minister is or is not about it. For me, this is the Super-Minister of Climate. We, as spokesmen, often ask this minister questions which are perhaps partly in the areas of other rulers. It is okay that this is being referred to now, but before Christmas we had that in a few debates, when we were referred to the Minister for Agriculture. I think that at another time we should discuss how we should conduct the debate with the Minister of Climate Change in an orderly manner. Because we're going to run into this a lot, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u131	The portfolio issue is always topical. And sometimes it's a little skippering. Mr President, that's what I'm here with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate. Or no, Mr Moorlag has another afterburner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u133	In the second term, I had asked the Minister a number of questions about dismissal allowances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u134	Yes, but I have already promised Mr Moorlag that he will receive a letter on this. We just discussed what might be in there. That commitment has been made. I am very happy to see Mr Moorlag here, as I say completely out of order. That's true. And I promised you that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mr Moorlag, you will receive a letter. I thank the Minister. We have come to the end of this debate.
