ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mrs Den Boer's questions, including to the Minister of Justice and Security, about the message that the Minister might apply checks on passenger lists to coaches. I call Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, Minister Grapperhaus was a spectator in Antwerp for a large-scale control of passengers on international bus lines. The Belgian police took a lot of action. The buses were piloted into a hangar, the luggage was checked by many inspectors and that with the help of explosives and drug dogs. Subsequently, each passenger was accompanied individually by the police to complete a personal screening. Identity papers were scanned and checked, they checked if they had drugs on them, and their luggage had to go through a customs scanner. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the fact that these passengers are treated as suspects for no reason, this practice sounds to me like the Europe I know from more than 30 years ago, when Schengen was not yet in operation and when we still had border controls in the European Union and were in long traffic jams when crossing the border. Is that what the Minister wants? Was there not a reason why these controls at internal borders were abolished, namely to encourage the free movement of persons and to speed up economic development? These are essential building blocks on which the European Union is based. Mr President, my questions to the Minister are clear. Does he really intend to carry out passenger checks on international bus and train connections? How does this relate to the Schengen Convention? Finally, is it true that, as Belgian Minister Jambon said, there is already an agreement between the Netherlands and three neighbouring countries to exchange data and make passenger lists of international trains available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	Madam President, I must begin with a confession. I was in Antwerp during the Saturday to negotiate the Benelux Police Treaty with my colleague. I won't tell you all about the outcome, but we've come a long way. In this context, I was invited to witness the way in which such a bus inspection was indeed carried out once a year in Belgium. It is a kind of control that is theoretically also possible in the Netherlands, but is linked to very clear limits. I would like to outline that as a framework, otherwise it will have a little too much meaning if I would have traveled to Belgium specifically to see how that works. At the moment, we are busy transposing the so-called PNR Directive, the Passenger Name Record Directive into national law. That Directive aims at the use of passenger data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. It is primarily aimed at airlines. In this respect, serious crime and terrorism do not respect national borders. Terrorists are not restricted by the way they travel. Therefore, it may be possible that this is true, I think, that the use of passenger data will contribute to an adequate detection. At any rate, now that we are going to take a major step in the legislation with aviation, we need to consider whether it would indeed be useful to extend it. The Netherlands is currently taking part in the task force on high-speed trains, examining with a number of countries the possibilities of extending the PNR Directive to high-speed trains in the first instance. As a result, international bus traffic is also discussed informally. As far as we are concerned, and as soon as that happens, your Chamber will certainly be informed at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you for these answers. Minister, I hear you saying that you were in Antwerp under the Benelux Police Treaty. It is, of course, fine to cooperate with neighbouring countries, but this is linked to the PNR directive, which applies across Europe. So I am very curious whether the task force, which you are talking about, is also based on an agreement. I would like to say the following. Of course, with you, D66 underlines the importance of combating terrorism in the European Union, but we are concerned about the proportionality and effectiveness of such far-reaching measures. PNR is not physical. We are talking here about physical control measures taken in Antwerp, physical controls imposed by police and customs on passengers. We are afraid that this will make the passenger the great loser. So what we would like to know from you: how does this agreement relate to the fact that Dutch legislation at present does not allow structural or systematic checks at internal borders? Can the Minister then forward the draft agreement to the Chamber? Can you comment on the legal basis, on effectiveness, on proportionality and on subsidiarity? These are all kinds of important legal questions, but also questions about the effectiveness of the measures that you seem to be providing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	Wait a minute... Excuse me if I say "wait a minute," but we're far from that. As I have already said in my reply to the questions put by Mrs Den Boer and Mr Verhoeven, I think it would be a good idea to stress this again. There are currently exploratory talks on the use of passenger information in other means of transport. This does not prevent free movement, which is not intended for border controls. I would like to stress that at the moment it is possible, in principle, in the Netherlands too, to hold a passenger bus in the Netherlands, if there is a suspicion, you understand that I mean the driver and not the bus itself, and to exercise control over it. So I think, first of all, that we are responding to the concerns you have just expressed about the care and respect for fundamental rights of people, because this is already happening in the context of the opportunities we have. Again, we are looking at whether it would be useful to extend that Passenger Name Record data to other means of transport. Moreover, I can assure you that the Benelux Police Convention was not about PNR. Maybe Mr. Jambon tweeted a little bit about that. Maybe he was happy with the talks. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	I am, of course, very glad that you are trying to answer these questions, but I should like to hear some caution from them. We're taking small steps first. That makes me a little suspicious, doesn't it? So I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to inform the Chamber of those steps, as he calls them, which could have a major impact on the free movement of persons in Europe. People enjoy getting on the bus or on the train. They do not want this kind of far-reaching controls. I am therefore very curious if the Minister wishes to inform the Chamber. In addition, I am very curious how the Minister intends to do this with the already scarce KMar and police capacity we have in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	There's still a misunderstanding. This isn't a border check or anything. This has to do with the free movement of persons. I admit that I put it on a little bit, but that's why I was talking about terrorists and serious crime. That's what this is all about. Again, this can be done under very strict conditions under the current Dutch regulations. What we are investigating is whether that Passenger Name Record system could also extend to high-speed trains. If that becomes something, it may be extended to buses, but at least we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. It is intriguing to see, during this Question Time, the rule of law really being stretched to the maximum in one question, and then to see it being defended tremendously here. I hear the Minister say that once a year there is a check between Belgium and the Netherlands, at least I am asking you, because otherwise I interpret that wrong. We had the situation at the time with a Christmas market in Berlin where someone finally fled by bus. Additional measures were taken at the time. Can the Minister reassure me that such checks really take place more than once a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think I can reassure you on that point. Here perhaps something in the typewriter has indeed been lost. Let me put it this way. What I said was that such a very big action is being carried out once a year in Belgium. The previous one was in March 2017 at least. But it's in Belgium. It is therefore not the border crossing between the Netherlands and Belgium. But I have already told you in the first sentence that I can reassure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you.
