ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr C.G.A. Mertens. I ask the Members to stand up. On 12 November last, at the age of 100, Gérard Mertens, former senator for the KVP and later the CDA, died. He was a member of the First Chamber for more than 26 years, from 15 July 1952 to 16 September 1969 and from 7 October 1969 to 1 January 1979. Conrad Gerardus Antonius Mertens was born on 15 March 1918 in Blerick. His call name Gérard was "Sjra" in Limburg. I hope I pronounce that right. Mertens' father was a farmer in Blerick. After primary school, Gérard attended the primary agricultural school in Heroes. After his exam he stepped in the footsteps of his father: he became a farmer and a fruit grower. Soon Mr Mertens worked for the Young Boeren- en Tuinders Bond, Blerick section, and in 1940 he became president of that department. During World War II he was active in the Catholic Action, a merger of Catholic youth organisations. For example, the Catholic Action warned visitors of German cinema films about the questionable moral content of German films. The organisation also provided support and manpower to the organized shelter aid. After the war, Mr Mertens continued to defend the interests of farmers and horticulturalists. In 1945 he became chairman of the Limburg Land- and Tuinbouwbond (LLTB) in Blerick. From 1945 to 1947, he was also chairman of the Venlo Circle of the LLTB and a year member of the Central Board, before he became president at his 28th. He was supposed to do that job for 25 years. In 1954 he had also become president of the Catholic Netherlands Boeren- en Tuindersbond. He also stayed there for more than 20 years. From 1972 to 1983, Mr Mertens was President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative Central Rabobank. Mr Mertens was active in politics at a young age, first as a member of the KVP Kamerkring Maastricht. From 1945 to 1948 he was a council member in the municipality of Venlo and a subsequent member of Provincial State Limburg. In 1949 he became a member of the party board of the KVP. From 1953 to 1954 he was a member of the Executive Board of the Catholic People's Party, the KVP. On 15 July 1952, Mr Mertens was sworn in for his party as a member of the First Chamber. He gave his maiden speech two weeks after the flood disaster, on 17 February 1953 when the budget for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food was discussed. Mr Mertens said on that occasion in this Chamber: 'I would like to join in the words of sympathy with the victims of the flood disaster (...). I am (...) a need to express here my appreciation and gratitude to this Minister and his officials for the rapid and effective measures taken to assist the affected regions." The fact that Mr Mertens would become an agricultural spokesperson on behalf of his group was only natural. His passion for and great knowledge of the sector also emerged from his very substantive input during debates. When dealing with the agricultural budget in 1957, he looked at the growing interest of society in agriculture. He said: 'I welcome this interest, because this can contribute to a better understanding of the real situation of agriculture by the Dutch consumer and to a better understanding of the importance of Dutch agriculture and horticulture for our entire economy'. During the last eight years of his membership of this Chamber, Mr Mertens was chairman of the Standing Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries. In addition to his political career, Mr Mertens was involved in many organizations. From his work for the Land- en Tuinbouwbond, for example, he was part of the Social and Economic Council, the Foundation for Agriculture and the Board of the Central Boerenleenbank. In Limburg, he was also active in the administration of various organisations such as the Stichting het Limburgs Landschap, Kasteeltuinen Arcen, the hospitals in Venlo and Venray and the Roman Catholic Church in his residence Hout-Blerick. All this time he also stayed involved with the Hoverhof, his family farm. Mr Mertens has received many awards, including three royal ones. In 1959 he was appointed officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau. In 1962 he was appointed a knight in the Order of the Dutch Lion and in 1975 he became commander in the Order of Orange-Nassau. By the Holy See he was appointed a knight in the Order of Saint Gregory the Great in 1971 and in Belgium he was appointed Commander in the Crown Order. He previously received the Silver Legpenning from Limburg and the Golden Medal of Honor from the Limburg Land- and Gardenbouwbond. On the occasion of his 100th birthday earlier this year, Mr Mertens said: "Self-knowledge is very important. You have to protect yourself from the thought that you can't be missed." He also had an advice to politicians: "Stay honest with each other, correct and play the game clean." In his particularly long social and political life, Mr Mertens was very much involved in society up to an old age, in his own order as "catholic, farmer and director." With cooperation, consultation and service, he gave substance to his great sense of responsibility. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-3.u2	I'm suspending the meeting for a brief moment in order to offer my condolences to the family.
