ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the 30-member debate on the World Economic Forum ranking, which shows that the Netherlands has fallen to 32nd place. I welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science in our midst and would like to give the floor to the first speaker from the Chamber and applicant for this debate, Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks. Mrs Özütok has three minutes' speaking time, and almost all other Members have three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The inequality between men and women in the Netherlands has increased. The Netherlands has fallen significantly in the Gender Gap Index, from place 16 to place 32. Countries such as Mozambique, the Philippines and South Africa are above the Netherlands. The Netherlands scores well in the categories of care and education, but in politics and the economy women are not yet well at their feet. An example: only 28% of council members are women. That is why I hope that a lot of female council members will be elected next Wednesday. Then there is the economic position of women. At present, only 54% of women are economically independent. That's frighteningly little. Research shows that many women do not want to work part-time. How is that possible? What's the Minister gonna do about this? We must make it easier for women to work more and ensure that the workplace meets women's needs and demands. We need to stand up to pregnancy discrimination and close the pay gap. Fortunately, the Minister has already indicated that she wants to work for all levels of the workforce, by tackling them. I therefore hope that she will support the initiative law to achieve equal pay for men and women, which I have submitted with my colleagues from the PvdA, the SP and 50PLUS. I'd like to hear her response to that. When we talk about women's economic position, we also talk about women in the summit. Last week it appeared that on boards only 11.7% are women. In supervisory boards, that is only 16.2%. In no less than 70% of board members is not even a woman. These are frightening figures. So the Minister's tactic, "apply or explain," doesn't work. The boards of directors do not apply or explain. We need to take firm measures, because apparently the companies do not take the minister seriously. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the women's quota should be introduced, preferably as soon as possible. There is really no point in constantly postponing these measures. We have to push women to the top in the back. With women at the top and in politics, we create not only more diversity and better economic performance, but also role models. These role models can inspire girls and they can show women that you can really become anything you want in the Netherlands. Does the Minister recognise this and is she prepared to take more firm measures now than she is now announcing in the letter? Finally, we have been engaged in emancipation for so long. Too long, actually. It doesn't make any sense. We must now move forward on all fronts as far as GroenLinks is concerned. The glass ceiling must finally be broken. Not only in the summit, we need to strengthen all women in order to become economically independent. Next year, as the Netherlands, we should just be back in the top of this index. I hope the Minister will fight for this with me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. There is an interruption by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u4	I am the last to say here that the gender gap no longer exists in the Netherlands, but this debate has been requested by Mrs Özütok's party, by Mrs Voortman, because of the list of the World Economic Forum. You are asking for a debate here in the Netherlands and you are firmly saying that it is so much better regulated in countries such as Burundi, the Philippines and Rwanda, where fathers and mothers both have to work to ensure that there is food at all for the children and where dubious regimes are in power. I would like to know whether GroenLinks really believes that women are better off in a country like Rwanda than in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u5	No, you're asking a very general question. I'm really basing myself on that index. Of course, you can also look at other indices and other figures with a very different perspective, but I am really talking here about the situation of women, especially their economic independence and their position in health care and at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u6	That's exactly what I'm talking about. I am talking about gender equality in a country such as the Philippines, where we know more than 10 million young girls, children and women have left abroad to work as some kind of home slaves in countries like Saudi Arabia to make sure there is food. That is the reality in those countries, and they are countries above the Netherlands. And, Mr President, a debate has been requested on the basis of that list to tell us about gender equality. So I would like to know from Mrs Özütok where she prefers to live. Do you prefer to live in the Netherlands, the Philippines or Rwanda?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u7	I really like living in Amsterdam. You say that I propose the situation in other countries much better than the situation here in the Netherlands. That is not what I do; then you have heard me wrong. I am really talking here about the position of women in our own country and what we can do to improve that position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u8	In short, because I have the impression that you have not yet received an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A debate is being requested here on a ranking of the World Economic Forum on which the Netherlands is lower than countries such as Rwanda, Burundi and the Philippines. That's why we're here tonight. So I ask GroenLinks: gosh, is it really so much better for women in those countries than in the Netherlands? Is that what you're saying to all those women who are following this debate? Are you really saying go to Rwanda because that's where they arranged it so well? Is that why we are debating here? That is the question, a very, very clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u10	You're making it a caricature. The situation of women is not much better there. That's not what that index says either. I have picked up elements from that index, which you should also say: there are indeed things, for example economic independence, which we need to work on. I hope to find you by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u11	I was a little surprised that GroenLinks is now suddenly running behind the flag of the World Economic Forum. That's the club of those angry, white, capitalist men. Your friends come there, when they meet somewhere, in large numbers to stand up in inner cities short and small and to put hundreds of agents in the hospital,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u12	Mr. Beertema, come to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u13	...but now that that's convenient, they suddenly have a good story. I would like to put my question, Mr President, to GroenLinks. What do you think, Mrs Özütok, of that other statement that goes around in that discourse on female employment? Women in the Netherlands are incredibly highly educated compared to all other women and, as far as I and we all know, they are extremely self-conscious. Why do you always choose that power position that is expressed in money? If women consciously choose a different kind of life and not that rat race that only gives you heart attacks and makes you never see your family again, then what's against it? Those women choose quality of life. They choose to balance their lives and work part-time so that they have time for fun things in life, things that make them happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u14	Thank you. Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u15	What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u16	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u17	It took a while, but the question was what do you think about people choosing the money, but better for it... Anyway, please respond to Mr Beertema's reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u18	My question is very brief: why do you always translate emancipation into money, more money, more money and power? Why don't you choose that balance that other women choose to be happy instead?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u19	I have not used the word "money" or the word "power" here. It is about the proportional participation of women in our society. When it comes to economic autonomy, we really have things to do here. Look at the poverty figures! That's a lot more common in women than in men. I cannot make reality more beautiful to you: women have the right to make their own choices and we must indeed remove the barriers that exist for women in the system so that women can live their lives as they wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u20	Well, that's where you'll find each other. Mr. Beertema, a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u21	A lot of those highly-educated women are very conscious about it. You say these women have the freedom to choose for themselves, but you do not give them that freedom. You're very paternalistic or maternalistic, I'll say, to force those women into your corner, which they don't want to be in. Then who are you to decide for those women that that is quality of life and not their quality of life?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u22	I don't think you know what women want at all. Women want equal participation in society. And I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u23	"I'll leave it at that"? You know what women want and I don't? Is that the story? Is that the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u24	I have nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u25	What kind of weird gender discrimination is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u26	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u28	Then we go to the second speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mrs Lenny Geluk-Poortvliet from the CDA Group. She's having her maiden speech today. I think that the fact that there are relatively many members of that group in the Chamber is connected with that. We have a good habit in this house not to interrupt the speaker who speaks the maiden speech. You also have a little more time than the three minutes that are appropriate to a 30-member debate. Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is in fact about treating people equally in our society. I am glad to be able to make my maiden speech on this subject. Here in this house I want to work to improve the equal treatment of people of advanced age. 50% of them are women in our society. They're the group I belong to. They determine for a large part the street view. Too often I notice that older people are being dismissed as a separate group with all kinds of problems. I want to break that image and show it doesn't make any sense. Many senior citizens are very vital and at times and for myself, my grandchildren do take care of that. You know it: ageing is a problem, caring for all those older people is becoming too expensive, and so on. In fact, we are creating a separate category and we are going to do so. So much so that people themselves start to believe in the images that exist about them, so they start to behave or feel like they don't count anymore. Older people as a separate group do not exist in my view. As far as I am concerned, the elderly are a very ordinary part of society. Diversity also involves differences in age structure and, first of all, senior citizens must be aware of this and act accordingly by continuing to participate in society. Volunteering is also work and a good example of this. Fortunately, more and more senior citizens remain active and I want to be an example of this. I'm living proof that someone my age doesn't have to stand aside, but can remain actively involved. My commitment for the coming years will be to work actively on a different picture about the older. I call it the art of aging. Mr President, a few questions to the Minister. In her letter, the Minister admits that the Lower House will soon receive an emancipation note in which she will address gender equality as well as lhbti-emancipation. The Minister also agrees that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs will follow up on the Employment Discrimination Action Plan, including pay discrimination. These are important issues. I ask the Minister to add the emancipation of older people in our society. For example, is the fight against discrimination in application procedures also aimed at combating discrimination against older people in the labour market and, if so, how? Does the Minister also know comparative studies in which we can compare how good or how bad we are doing in the area of older people's participation? Mr President, I have courage. The President of this Chamber has not been able to celebrate women's right for 100 years. In that light, we have achieved a great deal. A lot of reports deal with a lot of numbers. That's what I'm supposed to do. We're people of this time. A lot of things are changing all the time. It is our job as MPs to do our work that suits our time. And that's constantly adapting to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u31	Congratulations on your maiden speech. I will briefly suspend the sitting so that the people who are here for you will be able to congratulate you. And I'd like to be the first to do that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u32	I should like to give the floor to Mrs van den Hul of the Labour Party. In this 30-member debate we have a three-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, my sincere congratulations to Mr Geluk-Poortvliet, who is right to set an example for the participation and emancipation of women of all ages. I'm glad you're here. Where we were in the top ten of the Global Gender Gap Report for years, we have now fallen deeply, to the European centre moot in one place 32. We in the Chamber must certainly take note of this decline, especially here. Because the main reason that the Netherlands scored worse than before is a decrease in the number of women in politics and government. A hundred years, exactly a century after Suze Groeneweg was elected as the first and only woman in the Chamber by men for several years, that is also quite special............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In 2010 there were 64 more. In addition, the income gap between women and men has increased slightly and the number of women in leading positions has decreased. I am not even talking about pregnancy discrimination, which affects 50,000 women every year in the Netherlands. Where do we start? As regards unequal pay, my colleague Ploumen, together with colleagues from GroenLinks, SP and 50PLUS, recently announced an initiative law, as Mr Özütok said. Because the fact that women and men still do not earn equal pay for equal work in 2018 is, of course, unacceptable. And women's political participation begins primarily with women themselves. This means joining a political party, becoming active and exercising our right to vote. By the way, next Wednesday we have another great opportunity to choose more women in local politics. But not only women themselves, political parties are also urged to look for diverse talents, for example by a re-encompassing list, as my party does. As far as we are concerned, companies also have a responsibility, but unfortunately we see that a lot of companies do not yet take that role by themselves. Mr. Chairman. If we have to wait for it, as we are gathered here today, we are no longer experiencing equal representation between men and women. It is even a question of whether my students, whom I was allowed to teach this morning about the role of women in politics, are going to experience equal representation. So my question tonight is: how does the Minister intend to force that breakthrough? Does the Minister agree with us that the Netherlands should have the ambition to be back in the top ten, even top five? And, if so, how is she going to handle this? What will be the government's commitment to achieving proportional representation of women in top positions? Where no will is a law, said her predecessor. So my question is also: how does she feel about quotas? And what better way to raise awareness about the rights and obligations of pregnant workers and employers? Mr President, I will conclude. Where women and men share equal decisions, better decisions are taken, according to stacks of research. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the debate on equal representation is not a side issue, but should be a key issue. Not because it has to, but because it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet on her beautiful, personal maiden speech which she just gave here and which, as far as I am concerned, shows that you can talk about things, but that setting an example is still the very best medicine. I look forward to all future debates with her in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the position of women, we have achieved a great deal in recent years, but there is also a very long way to go. Much achieved because indeed only 100 years ago the women's right was introduced and because in 1955 you were fired as a woman from the government if you married. Fortunately, in recent years, we have also seen a sharp increase in the employment rate of women. Women still work a little less than men, but the gap is a lot smaller than it used to be. That's good news. At the same time, there's still a lot to do. For example, if you look at full-time jobs, you can see that a lot of women still work in small part-time jobs, which is also often reflected in career patterns and in growth, and also in the fact that Mrs Özütok said that, quite rightly, too many women in the Netherlands, including young women, are not economically independent. Mr. Chairman. The World Economic Forum's report should therefore, as far as my group is concerned, above all be an incentive not to give up but to put the turbo on it. On a number of points, the cabinet is doing very good things there as far as I am concerned. Think of the paid partner's leave at the birth of a child. Good for the bond between father and child, but I also think that by reducing the difference in leave, mothers' labour market opportunities will be increased. And we're gonna make more hours of work pay, too, for the least-earning partner. It often still has to hand in too much of that extra income through the tax, and fortunately this cabinet is going to take really big steps. But there's still a long way to go. Look, for example, at the Health Work Action Programme, where, fortunately, as far as my group is concerned, attention has also been paid to how we are going to ensure that people who now work in small part-time jobs work more hours. Of course, their own choice. That is good to do something about the tightness in the care, where we are jumping for staff, but also good for economic independence. Mr. Chairman. The approach to labour market discrimination, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the fact that we should, of course, also pay a great deal of attention to pregnancy discrimination there. Unfortunately, that is still a far too common fact in our labour market; one which is often kept a bit secret but still puts a lot of pregnant women or women who are thinking whether they might want to have a baby, at a huge, unjustified disadvantage. It's silly of employers, but it's a lot of trouble for future mothers. Mr. Chairman. I hope, therefore, that the cabinet will come forward with measures as part of the action plan. Then it's about this minister's colleague, because you don't get there with one action or another. Many members of this cabinet will have to take action. This Minister will have to take firm steps in this area in her emancipation paper, as my group expects, not least when it comes to the role of women in politics, but certainly in many other areas. I also fully agree with what the previous speaker said and I would like to promote the Els Borst Network of D66. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. There is another interruption by Mr Van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u37	Beautiful words from D66 about emancipation and equality, and rightly so. May I also point out that your group is in favour of our proposal on equal pay for men and women?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u38	Let me say, indeed, that I recognize the problem which is outlined extremely. By the way, I do not think that one measure is going to solve this. Indeed, it is about the difference in remuneration per hour. That's about 6% or 7%, depending on whether it's business or government. The solution put forward could indeed be interesting. I'm going to look at that with a very positive basic attitude. But the other part of the pay gap is in other things. What choice does one make in terms of sector? What about career prospects? How do we ensure that you can reach the board of directors and how do we prevent you from achieving them because some say that there are already almost too many women on the boards of directors? Unfortunately, we were able to read about Schiphol the other day. But you are absolutely right: it is also about equal pay per hour. In this respect, steps are also being taken forward. For example, women aged between 25 and 30 are now earning on average more per hour in the government than men. But on average, there's still a pay gap. I am going to study carefully whether that bill works, is effective and is feasible, but I fully agree with you on its purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u39	Mr. Van Dijk. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u40	Well, that sounds very hopeful. Of course, we are going to take a good look at the implementation. All parties can agree on this, but I would like to say to Mr Van Weyenberg: if he is so positive, he is always welcome to sign with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u41	Thank you for the outstretched hand. I'm going to look very closely at that proposal. I am sure that we will discuss this in detail and in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u42	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on my behalf, too, to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet. I look forward to the debates we can have together. Mr. Chairman. "Women tend to rely on the prince in white, but let me give you this: fill your backpack with knowledge and experience, so that you can provide for your own maintenance, for sooner or later that prince will always kink off his horse." A very wise lesson from one of my heroes: Mrs. Neelie Kroes. I wish any girl could at least take these wise words, that any girl could decorate her life in this way and that any girl could stand on her own feet whenever she so wishes. Unfortunately, that does not apply to everyone, not even in our country. We don't need this kind of meaningless lists like the World Economic Forum for that. Lists that, as has just been said, put a country like Rwanda in the top five when it comes to gender equality. And why? Because there are a lot of female parliamentarians there. That is something very beautiful in itself, but let's see how democracy works there. How does that express itself? Take Paul Kagame. He's been in charge there since 1994. He started out as vice president and for the past 18 years he's been president. You may wonder to what extent there is a free democracy and what these women in parliament have to say there. Or take the Philippines, which is far above the Netherlands, where maternal mortality at birth is sixteen times higher than in the Netherlands. No, we don't need this kind of arbitrary lists to see what's going well and what's not going well in our country. It has already been said: more and more young girls are becoming more educated and doing very well in school. We have self-determination in our country. Our freedoms are protected in the Constitution. But, of course, there are also concerns. Unfortunately, there are also women in the Netherlands who do not have or cannot stand up for themselves. Think of women who are oppressed, who are locked up in the house, who have to do with domestic violence. But there is also, as has just been mentioned, a lot to improve on the labour market. Partly because we are European part-time champions, we are less represented in certain places in our society. Take our parliament. It's incredibly difficult, actually impossible to do our job if you work two or three days a week. This also applies to the work of the Minister and to many other places in our society. I sometimes say either you're at the table or you're on the menu. Those are the things we should be looking at in our country. How did we set it up? What are the consequences of that? I'd rather we really get to work on these issues than waste our time with crazy lists. I am also looking forward to the Minister's emancipation note and I hope to see a lot of attention in it for the girl who has to prepare herself for the moment when her prince or princess kinks off the horse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u44	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. I'm going to see the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Beertema of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u45	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate my CDA colleague Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet. Welcome from this pulpit. Mr. Chairman. Thirty Members' debates are too often about the delusion of the day. A week ago, we were here talking about sexual harassment in the workplace. With today's science, GroenLinks had probably thought twice to support that debate, overtaken by reality. Now it is GroenLinks again, the party of moral fingerwatching, let me just say that, again, with steamy indignation, this debate on gender equality has been called for. Following a report that would show that the Netherlands is doing many times worse in terms of gender equality than Rwanda; my VVD colleague just spoke about it. I had to let it settle down for a while. My first thought was that the news had to come from the satire site De Speld. But it's not funny. The strong position of women in Rwanda was primarily caused by the genocide that took place there. Very harshly said: the men were up and that is why the women came into this position. As far as I am concerned, this report has been disqualified without any context from the World Economic Forum. Mr. Chairman. There is a country where women want to live, but that country is certainly not Rwanda. The Minister rightly refers in her letter to all the other rankings and reports in which we, as the Netherlands, are leading. All beautiful, but for a country as badly finished as ours, it doesn't really matter that much. As the VVD colleague said, we should stop giving too much weight to those international lists. When we look at the Netherlands, we know we've done a great job. Over the course of a century, an emancipation miracle has taken place through a constant struggle between women and men for freedom and equality. Of course there is room for improvement, but if you listen to the fuss that is usually made in this committee about very lame subjects, you might conclude that the emancipation in the Netherlands is pretty much over. That's not him. There is still one very large area in our country where a world can be won when it comes to emancipation, namely Islam: sanctioned inequality. Last time I heard it too: here we go again! Sanctified inequality, oppression, sexual assault, rape, gang rape, marriage, rape within marriage, abuse, polygamy, child marriages It all happens under our noses and one dares not name it, except the PVV. Because the cause is Islam. People then immediately jump into the attitude to say: no, it is at most the culture; it is not about Islam itself. Immediately, we will receive the accusation of deep-rooted Islamophobia, racism and exclusion. That's what all the bad politicians like to do. A recent example: sending indignant tweets when Islamic MPs in Britain are threatened and rightly so, for threat is a very serious matter............................................................................................... Thousands of victims, mainly minors, white women, who are sacrificed for political correctness. If we don't de-islamize, we'll turn in more and more of our freedoms every day. We have to turn the tide. Let's be a little better tomorrow than today and not worse. I also asked the Minister to include in her letter the position of Islamic women in the Netherlands. That didn't happen. I would argue that this should be done very explicitly in the case of emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u47	Perhaps the Minister will be able to make a commitment on this in due course?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u48	We're gonna see it in the Minister's term. Thank you. I'm going to the next speaker. That's Mr. Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna need to get my chair down a little bit. Where's the button? Oh, this is all going from my time. Terrible! I see backup's on its way. Oh, it's completely automatic. Fortunately, the chairman is nice enough not to turn on my bell yet. My chair is low enough now. Where's the stop button? Excuse me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u50	Okay. Well. You're here? Good luck. Mr. Van Dijk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands in place 32, Rwanda in place 4. That is our place on the World Economic Forum's ranking on gender equality. Not exactly a place to be proud or proud, or indeed, I ask the Minister of Emancipation almost rhetorically. The low place is partly caused by the gender pay gap. Women still earn percentages less than men for the same job. At that point we are in a sad 50th place, I read in the report. This can't be happening. I assume you agree with me on this. But there's hope. Last week, together with colleagues Ploumen, Özütok and Van Brenn, I announced an initiative law to resolve this pay gap. He was already passing by with the colleagues. The minister already reacted enthusiastically in the debate on #MeToo. She remembers, I can see her facial expression right here. I'll just say that before the Minutes. In the meantime, we have made a preliminary draft, and I am happy to offer this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u52	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u53	If the Minister wants to take over our plan, we'll have a party today. I'd like a response. The difference in annual income between men and women is also caused by the large number of women working part-time. It is in itself a great asset of the Netherlands to achieve a better balance between work and private, but why is it always the woman who takes care of the child? Why not divide this more fairly by making both four days work instead of the woman usually three and the man usually five days? Is the Minister prepared to promote cultural change in this respect? In addition, there is, of course, parental leave, which is still miserable for the fathers. Right now, they only get two days' leave. The cabinet wants to extend that to six weeks, and that's good. But this has to be paid 100% for us and not 70%, because if you still let parents pay 30%, it is only for families with higher incomes and not for young families or families with lower incomes. I'd like a response. Another solution is to make child care free. They've been talking about this for years, but nothing's happening. We propose that we start with two days of free childcare. This is not only good for emancipation, but also for children, who are given more opportunities for development. This gives them more opportunities and eliminates backlogs. Of course, this also applies to women who are now at home because expensive childcare makes working unattractive. This solution must sound like music to the Minister of Emancipation, I think. Funding can be budget-neutral if we make child support dependent on income. I'd like a response. One more point about the missed allowance for 20,000 self-employed people who have not been compensated for their maternity leave. See my parliamentary questions on that. Begin this year with the payout and not next year. Mr. Chairman. After all, top women. What is the government doing against Schiphol Airport, which claims to prefer a man on the board? Isn't that a little dated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then we go to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber: Mrs Arissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u55	Thank you, Mr President. During the evaluation of the Lower House elections, in which other parties mainly talked about the reliability of the results and the counting of the votes, only the Party for the Animals devoted its entire speaking time to the political representation of women. That's kind of curious. In March 2017, as many women were elected to the House of Representatives as nineteen years ago. The Rutte III cabinet also received direct criticism when it took office because of the low number of women rulers. Let this disappointing representation of women in Dutch politics be one of the main reasons for the free fall on the World Economic Forum ranking from place 16 to place 32. Mr. Chairman. The equality of women with men is not reflected in political levels of government, but in our party. I say with caution, but also with due pride that women are again best represented in the forthcoming municipal elections at the Animal Party, with 55%. That's consistent with the male-female relationship among our constituents. We were even called "reflection champion." Last week I was asked by a journalist how it is that the Party for Animals is always best placed in all lists of representation. Maybe we'll do something special for that? Are we filling our electoral lists by a special method? In short, what is our secret recipe? But no, we're actually doing nothing special, except doing politics as a broad emancipation movement, continuing the fight for women's rights that Aletta Jacobs, among others, started and moving on to, for example, animal rights. In addition, we stand up for the weak in this society and against the right of the strongest. Furthermore, we carry out our long-term vision and fight that vision, which is to ensure that this planet, with its highly vulnerable ecosystems and scarce resources, remains viable not only for humans and animals today, but also for future generations. In addition to many men, the long-term vision also appeals to many women. And no, there's no special trick to fill out our election lists, and there's no special selection procedure that should make us mirror champion. Women, like men themselves, come to us to stay, because the great challenges of our time, such as climate change, are not only being dealt with side by side, but are at the heart of our politics. The funny thing is, it's not an issue for us. It's all on its own. The fact remains that the Netherlands is ranked 32nd. As the World Economic Forum itself describes, gender equality is fundamental to whether and, if so, how societies flourish. It is good to hear that the Minister for Emancipation also stresses the importance of a decisive emancipation policy. It's not about words, it's about actions. The Animal Party is therefore keen to encourage the Minister to show decisiveness. On to a society in which everyone feels at home and on to a politics that represents this society as a whole perfectly. We don't do it for less. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u56	Thank you, Mrs Arissen. I took a look at the minister. It may immediately reply to the question in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I thank Members for their contribution and I also thank Mrs Özütok for having taken up this debate, because as far as I am concerned, it is a good thing that we are discussing this issue regularly. It is an important subject and there is still a lot to be done in the Netherlands. It is also good to highlight what Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said, that quite good steps have been taken in the Netherlands in the last century. In a number of rankings we score quite well. However, female labour market participation has increased. In education, women do even better. In a lot of areas things are going well, but that does not mean that we can sit back and say: that is good enough. I have announced that the Emancipation Letter will come at the end of March. That's what we're gonna talk about April 5th. This also means that I cannot go into a number of issues in detail. I hope you can understand that. That note has yet to be passed by the Council of Ministers. I'm committed to having an agreement there first, before I start talking about it here freely. Perhaps in advance something about this report from the World Economic Forum. I am not at all interested in making comparisons here with Rwanda and other countries that are higher. That's not exactly the point of that report either. Of course, women in Rwanda don't have it better than here. Of course, democracy there is no better than here. The report only deals with how big a difference is between men and women per country. That's the only power of expression in the report. What the decline on the ranking list says is that the difference in the Netherlands has not improved compared to other countries. We can at least see that. Of course, there are other indexes on which the Netherlands is doing better. An example is the European Institute for Gender Equality. That has an index of this kind and there we are in fourth place, for example because the Netherlands is doing very well in the field of labour. The main focus is on labour market participation, and that is where we are doing pretty well. For me, the main challenge at this time for gender equality is to reduce the difference or gap in social status between men and women that is still there, and preferably as much as possible, until they are no longer there. This cabinet takes a number of generic measures and takes some very good steps. Mr Van Weyenberg also pointed out this. We're gonna make work pay more. That means that if you start working a few extra hours, you'll have more left in your wallet. That is a very important conversation at the kitchen table, where it is decided how the working hours are distributed in the family. In addition, you really play a part in how much of that you have left in the wallet. This cabinet invests 250 million in childcare, a very important step. Of course, something is being done about paternity leave, so that fathers can also ensure for six weeks that they can really father and take care of that child. This is good for the relationship between both parents and the child, but that is also a good improvement for the mother's position on the labour market. Those are nice steps. If we look at why we went down in this report, Mrs Özütok and Mrs Van den Hul and others point out that it did not go well in politics in particular. The number of women in the Chamber fell. We have never had a female Prime Minister; that also counts. With the number of women members in the cabinet, the D66 share was good. It is also good that parties pay full attention to this. Some of you expressed your opinion on this. I'd say not just say it here, but say it everywhere in your party. As a member of the cabinet, I must of course be very reluctant to give voting advice, but if I can give one, it is: vote on a woman next Wednesday. Because then perhaps the number of women in the councils will still be fine. This also leads not only to a more equal distribution between men and women in municipal councils, but also often to better and more balanced decision-making. That's what we're talking about. Let's do it especially for that. Should the number of women in politics increase? Yeah, sure. I try to contribute to that, both inside and outside the party. Mr. Chairman. Most of you have pointed out the high part-time factor and the fact that too few women in the Netherlands are economically independent. I can already say that in my emancipation note this really becomes the main issue of attention and concern. Around emancipation there are a lot of problems, but there is a very important core. That is not only important when the prince falls off the white horse, I say to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. We just had the #MeToo discussion. Even if that prince is still firmly on the white horse, even if that princess is still on the white horse, let's not leave those princesses out.It's important that you can stand financially on your own feet, that you can make choices, that you're not vulnerable because you're financially dependent. The prince doesn't have to fall off that horse for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u58	An interruption by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u59	Those are very nice words, which I fully agree with. In fact, I would like to tell the Minister along this road that I hope that this emancipation note really pays attention to the younger girls. That is what I meant in my speech. We know, for example, that a third of them expect that they will later depend on the State or on a partner. Those are very worrying things. That's what I meant by "make sure you can stand on your own feet when you want or need it." Honestly, I hope that's what most girls want. I wonder what the role of the government can be in this, but that is for a later debate, on the emancipation note, I think. I personally believe that it is a very important task for all of us here to start this discussion outside these walls. If I can, I'd like to hear a reflection on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u60	Let me say a few things about the question of how it is that women in particular are so much more in this country than in other and neighbouring countries, which are part-time and therefore not economically independent, often with a lot of problems in the area of domestic violence and dependency. Moreover, it is not conducive to the number of women at the top. There is a core here, and I think it is right to do something about it. What's that all about? We see girls doing very well in education. The turning point actually comes when they go to the labour market. We see that women, including young, highly educated women, start working part-time before children come. There is therefore also a task for education. We have something to do with the role models, with the examples we give children in education. I have already exchanged this in a debate with Mrs van den Hul. The role models that occur in a lot of educational material are still too stereotyped. I can't prescribe it to publishers, but I'll talk to them about it: do we think it's wise to do it like that? Last week and this afternoon we had a VAO here about career orientation and guidance. It is also important not to refer women to the stereotypical choices, to show them the whole range of choices and to show them what that means for their future. The part-time factor also has to do with examples from the environment. If you don't know women who work full-time, it's hard to have that ambition of their own. Especially in the deficit education and care sectors, many women work part-time. There is a great deal of reason to say: perhaps we should see if the factor there can become more full-time. There is perhaps a better example in education. That's how we're gonna do something about the deficits. Some of you asked: from the SCP report that we asked about it, I found it very remarkable and remarkable that a lot of women do not work voluntarily in small part-time jobs but would very much like to work more. It is a crazy kind of mechanism: because many women work in these sectors, employers are only going to offer part-time jobs. That is why the letter on health deficits, which my colleague sent to the Chamber on my behalf yesterday, says that reducing the part-time factor must be an important element.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u61	I very much agree with that. It's kind of weird, too. We are now talking a lot about shortages, in health care but also in education. Research shows that the most frequent refusal to allow people with a small part-time job to work more hours in two sectors is: care and education. I found that remarkable, because in these two sectors there is an enormous need for staff. I ask the Minister, also in her contacts with Mr van VWS, to take this point into account when drawing up the action plans against labour market shortages. At least I thought it was quite remarkable. There's a screaming shortage of people. We really want them to work more. But especially in those two sectors, in which many women also work with small part-time jobs, the most often no is sold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u62	Totally. Mr De Jonge's letter on the deficits in health care contains a very interesting table. If a lot of workers in care with a small part-time job start to work an extra hour, we will solve a job shortage with an equivalent of 20,000 fte. That's a big deal. So here is a very important key to resolving the deficits, and at the same time a very great opportunity to improve the position of women in the labour market. By the way, I would like to draw your attention once again to the Working Flexible Act. I feel that too little use is being made of it and that employers may not be able to do so. The Flexible Work Act gives every employee who has been employed for at least six months the right to request additional hours of work. The employer may refuse to do so only if he is able to step up urgent business interests. These do not seem to me to be very bad at the moment, for example, in health care and education. But also in other sectors there are often none. In my view, we need to draw attention once again to the great possibilities of the law that exist in many groups, which we have found to be not entirely voluntary in part-time work. I have said a number of things about part-time work, but in the letter of emancipation I come back to it in detail, because I think it is a very important subject. As a result, we leave a lot of talent in society, but it also makes a whole group of women unnecessarily vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u63	I would like to thank the Minister for taking so much time to discuss the issue of part-time work and to return to the emancipation note. The fact that we are European champions of part-time work has many consequences for women in our society. However, I would like to ask the Minister once again in this way whether she will also pay attention in her note to women who would like to work more but who do not get that achieved by other obstacles, such as cultural obstacles, lack of self-determination or lack of freedom. We know that this applies to an essential group in our society. I would very much like us to pay attention to this, so that these women too can make their own choices and hopefully fill them in on the basis of the fine measures we have taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u64	Sure. I think it is important that the policy should also be aimed at ensuring that all women in the Netherlands are at least given the opportunity to be economically on their own feet. And, of course, working part-time is also a good thing in this country; you yourself defended that freedom, but then it must be a conscious choice. I think we should point out to young women that tomorrow always starts today: the choices you make today have consequences for your career later. Young women must also be aware of this. I assume that we will be discussing this more frequently in the coming years. I'm really looking forward to that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk, who presented the note to me, has rightly drawn attention to the pay gap, Mrs Özütok, Mrs Van den Hul and the Animal Party. We know that the pay gap is about 16%. One time I was heavily hacked into the NRC because I mentioned it 16%. We must be aware that this 16% is not all due to wage discrimination, because men and women receive a different hourly wage for exactly the same work. There are many different factors behind it, including the part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time But pay discrimination cannot, of course. This cabinet, too, is very motivated to deal with them. We are going to study the preliminary draft with great interest. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Mrs Van Ark, will be the first to respond on behalf of the cabinet. The Cabinet itself will present the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, which will also address this issue. But I think it is a good idea in this debate tonight that there is great motivation in the Chamber to address the issue of pay discrimination. I'm sure we'll find out what measures are going to fit in with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u65	That sounds good again. I'm pretty optimistic. Just before registration: do I understand that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is going to respond to our preliminary draft in her plan to combat labour market discrimination, or is it different?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u66	You have now offered me the preliminary draft and you have offered it to the cabinet. If you offer something to the cabinet, we will respond to it; I think that is so neat. The Secretary of State will do so in the action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u67	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u68	If anything is offered to me, I don't have the habit of putting it in a drawer and never looking at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u69	Beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u70	Well, that's all written down, because I know some of your ex-colleagues who did, but I won't mention any names.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u71	Minister, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u72	You feel sorry for me here. They also asked what the Cabinet is doing against pregnancy discrimination. This will also be addressed in the above-mentioned Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination. In addition, I finance the awareness campaign Baby and a job. It is intended, among other things, to make women aware of the rights they have when pregnant, of their rights as pregnant workers or pregnant applicants. With that campaign, I also hope to make women aware that you can work with a baby.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u73	This sounds incredibly positive. That appeals to me very much. I have a question about women with babies and their workplace. When it comes to facilitating women with babies, such as making a bottle room available and things for other needs, a number of employers are still a little behind. Do you include those employers in the campaign you're about to launch?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u74	I think that campaign's already started. You can already look at it. That's the campaign Baby and a job. A worker may need a space to cobble. That's a right you have. This is something that the Labour Inspectorate must monitor, but the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan is also monitoring. That kind of disadvantage, rights that a woman does not grant, must be looked at. But it is also important to make women aware that they have the right to ask and that such a colt room is something other than the broom closet. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the topic of top women. That's what it's been about in the past week. Let me be clip-and-ready. Was I satisfied with the figures presented? Absolutely not. A letter from me and Mr De Boer fell on the mat with 5,000 employers this morning, reminding them of the Governance and Supervision Act, which obliges them to strive for 30% women at the top in 2020. That's "apply or explain." Of course, we saw in those figures that a lot of companies do not apply it, but that a lot of companies don't even bother explaining it. I am very sorry about that. That is why I decided with Mr De Boer to send another letter to bring that to the attention of the House. I have also written a letter to the Chamber on this subject, in which I say two things. The previous PvdA Minister Bussemaker has agreed with the business community that we will settle in 2019. I think the government should be administratively reliable. Then I also think that I was kept at that time of 2019. But I did say in the letter: then we are really going to take stock. I sincerely hope that companies will take the trouble to really put in a final sprint and that we will see a significant increase next year. But I also said in the letter: if this does not happen, then this cabinet does not shy away from a robust package of measures. I am now giving you an answer to the question, what measures will that be? No, you're not gonna get that answer. I know you're gonna ask me that, that you're gonna try. You're not gonna get that answer right now. I really want to look at a wide package. I am not concerned about a measure; I am concerned about the result. I would like to see what measures we can take to ensure that these 30% women are achieved at the top as soon as possible. But you can rest assured that we will not hesitate to come up with a package of measures if those figures do not look much better next year. Honestly, when I saw the numbers, my patience really ran out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u75	And yet there is a question from Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u76	I agree with the Minister's statement that patience is really exhausted. But so much delay has already been given to employers and businesses on this point. What are these few months gonna matter now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u77	It is difficult for you to put that delay before me. The previous cabinet granted that postponement and said: we will pay in 2019. As a driver you also have a bit of the importance to ensure administrative continuity. You cannot suddenly say: there is another minister, who is going to take the package of measures a year earlier. Is there any chance that next year we'll be up or very close to that 30%? When I see the numbers like that, I have a hard head in there. But I would like to give employers the opportunity and encourage them to use that final sprint. Show me you're really getting on your feet. Jos Nijhuis said it wouldn't be in balance if there was a woman too much. So it had to be a man. If everyone's gonna do the opposite of what Jos Nijhuis said, so if everyone's gonna say that if there's too many men in the balance, it's gonna be a woman, we're gonna get there real fast. Maybe that was a hint, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u78	Mrs Özütok, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u79	I understand that the Minister, as director, is taking due care in this, but there is no indication that it is really going to improve. The results speak for themselves. When it comes to intervention and other measures, you have the majority on your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u80	Mrs Özütok, that was not my concern. The last minister made an appointment. If I want to appeal to others on their appointments, I think it's so neat and of administrative decency if I at least live up to mine. I consider myself bound by my predecessor's agreement. I said: if it does not look better next year, the cabinet will come up with a package of firm measures. That's what that letter says. It is not a question of whether there is a specific measure in it. No, it's about whether we can do what's really going to result. I want it not only to lead to more women at the top, but also to make decision-making in business of better quality, to increase innovation and creativity and to make greater use of talent in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u81	I'm glad we agree on a lot of things here tonight. We agree, among other things, that we are running out of patience on this dossier. The minister's predecessor has already said: 'Where there is no will, there is a law'. Could quoting possibly be part of that package?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u82	I'm not ruling anything out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u83	I think it is very nice that the Minister is also fully committed to more women at the table instead of on the menu. I fully understand what she's saying now. I share from my position the observation and analysis that there are also a lot of companies that could really do a lot more. But we have just found that three quarters of women work part-time. We have also found that it is very difficult to reach the top level in many functions. How does the Minister look at this tension? On the one hand, you ask the companies: show them you're just taking care of this. I support that. On the other hand, the Minister's observation is that there is enough supply, even though three quarters of women work part-time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u84	Yeah, there's that offer. We have a database containing 1,500 women who are "boardroom ready," as it is called. If they all get a spot, we're gonna be a whole end of those companies. The argument "they are not there because they work too much part-time" does not apply now. I fully agree with you that in the future many more women will have to work more hours, so that flowing to the top will be easier. But I don't want us to make it an excuse for the summit not to make those appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u85	I find it a little mysterious. We got a crystal clear press release from OCW. The Minister says: the results are to cry; the measure is full. She also says: 11%, we really can't; we have to go to that 30% by 2020. But the Minister doesn't want to say anything about measures. She's not gonna say anything today about exactly what she's gonna do. That's weird, isn't it? You need to hurry now, because that 30% must be achieved by 2020. So if you're not gonna say anything, these companies are gonna think, "Well, whatever. You need something now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u86	Whoa, whoa! I'm sorry, but I don't have to do anything. This is addressed to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u87	That's right, Mr. Chairman. What are you going to put pressure on these companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u88	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u89	I think I've been crystal clear about it. Yeah, I'm running out of patience. Yeah, I said those results are really crying. Yes, this cabinet is going to take a firm package of measures in 2019, when we agreed to pay for it, if those results are not better. I think that is crystal clear, and I have nothing to add at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u90	I don't think that's so strong, honestly. It is much stronger when the Minister says: if those companies do not do what I want, then I come up with "dot, dot, dot." The elephant in the room? That is, of course, the quota. I'm not sure, but maybe there's some division within certain parties. That is possible, but if I say now that a quota is a horse's drug, which perhaps no one wants, then it is much better to say now what you are going to do? This is in order to prevent you from having to use that quota, that horse medicine. Are we not in agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u91	I agree with Mr Van Dijk that there are also many other measures that can improve the position of women at the top. But an agreement has been made, I repeat, that under the Governance and Supervision Act, business will have until 2019 time to show results through the route of that law. It is only after we have reached that moment that I am going to announce what measures that will be. What I hope, to be honest, is that it is perhaps vain hope, but I hope it is not necessary. Hans de Boer, President of VNO-NCW, said: is it really to be ashamed that you would need compelling measures in the law to do what is not only good for society, but also for your business? I think it is a good thing that we all keep saying that as often as possible. To be honest, I was also quite happy with the broad indignation about Jos Nijhuis' statements. At a time like this, a lot of people show that they do think it's important. Let all these people ensure that these appointments are indeed made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u92	It would, of course, be extremely sad if the step towards legislative measures had to be taken, but after years of hard learning. Do I understand the Minister correctly that she says: I am not going to threaten what exactly I am going to do, but I am threatening and if not, will I take legal action? Will the Minister start preparing for the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u93	Mr Van Weyenberg knows me. I've got all kinds of stuff in my head. In my department, this is already being considered by the public authorities. When the time comes, we must be able to switch quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u94	It's really good that things just lie on the shelf. I was a little disobedient yesterday, and I told Mr Koolmees' colleague, Mr Koolmees, that, as far as I am concerned, the same applies to pension fund management. 40% of these boards don't have women. I would like to refrain from the Minister's measures to include them in pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u95	I'll make sure I have a nice set on the shelf next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u96	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u97	I should like to congratulate Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet on her maiden speech. I hadn't done that yet. I hope that I will be able to hold many debates with her in this Chamber, not only in the field of emancipation but also in the field of culture, because she is also a spokesman on behalf of the CDA in this area. Mrs Geluk asked me whether the emancipation note would also address the position of the elderly. Let me be very clear: the emancipation note and the emancipation policy for which I am responsible are specifically about gender equality and the position of lhbti individuals in society. When it comes to women, it is, of course, about the position of women of all ages and of all tastes. Then it's really all women. As a minister, I have responsibility for that. Of course, I work with the other colleagues as well. I am working with the Social Affairs colleague when it comes to the position of older people in the labour market. Mr De Jonge, VWS Minister, is specifically responsible in the cabinet for the position of older people. With him, for example, I move on when it comes to the position of pink elderly people in care. Well, that's my responsibility, then. And I join with Mr Koolmees and Mr De Jonge in supporting long-term unemployment among 50-plussers. The theme of "older people" is a widely held responsibility in the cabinet, but it is also the area of emancipation. It's got all the attention it needs. Mr Beertema said a bit reproachful: this is about emancipation, but how is marriage coercion, polygamous marriages, violence and honour vengeance going? These are also topics where women are often victims. Let me say two things about that. The Justice Department takes all criminal matters seriously, because very often these are criminal offences. You raised the impression, Mr. Beertema, that we would not be paying attention to this in the emancipation policy. That is not the case. I also support a project like LEF by Fier and Femmes For Freedom. They focus precisely on combating this type of traditional and harmful practice and support girls and young women from, for example, migrant and refugee families in order to achieve their own ambitions and improve their position. So I do have that in mind in my policy. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked about the birth leave. He said, shouldn't that have been paid 100%? Boarding is sometimes also making choices. If you opt for 100% paid leave, you'd probably end up on a much shorter period. We had the five days of Asscher, but it's been six weeks. That first week was paid in full and then it's 70%. I think that is a reasonable choice because there is a balance between affordability and the possibility for fathers or co-parents to have that leave as long as possible. You may have made a different choice, Mr Van Dijk, but this cabinet has made this choice and I think it is a very balanced one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u98	Let me say first of all that I am very pleased that paternity leave is finally being extended. We were at the bottom of the list by two days for fathers. But the Minister is right to say that this is the choice you have made. The risk of this choice is that you take away the opportunity of poorer families, low-income families and young families, because they still have to pay the 30% themselves. Do you recognise that risk and would you like to look at it? Maybe a shorter period or even extra funding? There are solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u99	I believe that you and my colleague, Mr Koolmees, are going to have a very detailed debate on how this regulation can be implemented. I think it would be wise for that debate to take place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u100	I can and I will. But I do say to the Minister of Emancipation that she can give these kinds of answers very often, because she is a coordinating minister. It's almost always about another ministry. I will give you all the space to give your own vision, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u101	But I am speaking on behalf of the cabinet and the final proposal must also be submitted to the Chamber. I think it is right to talk about the exact ins and outs of the proposal only when it really is here. Then you can appeal to me to the full extent of that. Mr Van Dijk also made a plea for two days of free childcare. Then I can be very faint and say "nothing is free in life," but let's face it: this cabinet invests up to 250 million in child care. This makes it more affordable for a lot of people. And let me also mention that 170 million is being invested in early and pre-school education, which is free for a lot of parents with a narrow scholarship. This is often for children who are lagging behind, but it is increasingly seen in municipalities that people are simply looking at how to make an integral provision of it. We're offering that space, too. That part of childcare is dependent on income. That is true, but because we also invest in childcare, it is becoming increasingly affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u102	Well, come on, Mr. Van Dijk. A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u103	Thank you. The Minister is very keen on my proposal, but I have to respond to the fact that she said: nothing is free in this life. That is true, but on this proposal we had excellent coverage. You can realize two days of free childcare by cutting the child benefit at the highest level of income. Then it's budget-neutral and then we've taken another big step in emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u104	While you're asking the question, you already know what my answer will be. We've just made another choice in this as a cabinet. You say it's a choice you have to make politically. A political choice has been made to make a different division between child care and child support. Mr Van Dijk had another question about the payment of the lost pregnancy allowance forzzp'ers. As from 15 May, the parties concerned will be able to report. This benefit will be paid from 2019. You made a plea to get that payout started early. That payout only then starts to prevent the income from falling higher over 2018, so that surcharges have to be refunded again. Therefore, it was chosen to make that payout take place in 2019. Mr President, I believe that I have dealt with the questions put and the issues raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u105	I would like to thank you very much for your contribution to the debate. Let me look at the Members to see if there is still a need for a second term. This is the case in some cases. I shall set the speaking time at one minute. No one is opposed to this, so we have established that. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks as the first speaker from the Chamber for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for her response and the ambitions she has with regard to emancipation. I'd like to wait for her note on what we're gonna talk about next month. The Minister has expressed her ambitions. There is one more point, and I hope that she will regard my motion as a push in the right direction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 70% of the boards have no female members;]] [[Considering that if current progress continues at the same pace, this is insufficient to reach the 30% target by 2020;]] [[Whereas a balanced gender balance in governance is beneficial for the economy and good for the operating result;]] [[considers that the current principle of "apply or explain" clearly does not work;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare, prior to the review of the Management and Monitoring Act, investigations and proposals to allow a legal quota for the position of women at the top and to inform the Chamber in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-264]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we are going to seriously consider all the motions in my group as well. Actually, I have one question. I have just heard the Minister say: I am preparing legal measures, but I will not go into them in detail because I do not think that is appropriate. I'm just looking into what your motion adds in your view to the Minister's commitment, as to why you're submitting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u108	I really want those targets and women's participation to remain clearly at the forefront of an instrument and that is really well examined in these proposals. That's my goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u109	Yeah, that's clear. I think I have actually heard the Minister say this, but we will await her answer. I am always in favour of motions, but never if they actually repeat something the Minister has already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u110	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I shall now go to Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet for her second term. There is one minute's speaking time for you too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u111	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions I have asked. I have assumed that we will also pay attention to the position of older women in the labour market when examining the memorandum on emancipation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet. Mrs Van den Hul is now ready for her second term. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we share a lot of things here tonight. Often this is about what we do not agree with each other, but tonight we agree on a lot of things. In my view, we agree in particular that the position of women, even here, still offers room for improvement. I think it always starts with ourselves, so I would like to call once again on people who are following this debate to vote next week, and preferably on a woman. And I'd also like to call them to join a political party if they aren't already. Because there can also be a lot of improvement; at the moment only a third of all members are women. I also have a motion. It's about our ambition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that after years of stay in the top ten of the Global Gender Gap Index, the Netherlands has fallen to the European middle ground in place 32;]] [[noting that this is not in line with the ambition to belong to the summit of the countries where there is equality and equal opportunities between women and men;]] [[believes that it is important to strengthen the ambitions to belong to that summit, given the significant decline in the Global Gender Gap Index;]] [[points out that the Netherlands has set itself the goal and ambition to be in the top five of the Global Gender Gap Index within five years and will also make the necessary efforts;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-265]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u114	I now hear Mrs van den Hul arguing for the second time to vote in favour of a woman in particular. We all get a very warm feeling about it. I don't. What would it be like if I stood where you stand now, pleading twice to vote mainly for a white man, and preferably for a white older man? Or what would it be like if Mr Kuzu, who is not here today, were to say: vote mainly for someone with a Turkish background? What is the difference in principle? Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u115	The difference in principle is that in politics in the Netherlands older white men are overrepresented and women are underrepresented. The numbers have passed several times tonight. The reason I'm so concerned about this point is not because I happen to be a woman. I'm happy about that, because then I can paint nails and wear high heels. Although, guys can do that too, so what's gonna make us? But the reason why this is so important to me, as I said in my speech, is that the quality of decision-making improves when men and women have an equal voice in that decision-making. That is why I call on people to use their voices to strive for equal representation as long as they do not have an equal vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u116	I myself do not see so many thresholds and restrictions imposed on women to participate in this profession, or in any political representation. Anyway, I understand that if there's victimisation, anything is allowed. Then it's all yours. Then we can also pay for gender in this way. Then Mr. Kuzu can do the same when it comes to ethnicity and so on. For he says: we are also underrepresented. Is that the story?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u117	I always find it a little complicated to talk about colleagues of ours who are not present, so I would like to keep Mr Kuzu and his views out of this debate. As far as victimisation is concerned, I leave that interpretation entirely to Mr Beertema. Apparently, he didn't hear me say that it's primarily a responsibility of women themselves to raise their hands, something I regularly address women to, including in the classes I stand for. That's where it starts. I also said membership of political parties. 30% is female, 60% male. That's where it starts. Those obstacles, which I didn't mention at all, I'd like to have another conversation with Mr. Beertema. But it's not about me. I'm gonna repeat it again. We're gonna invest in equal opportunities for men and women because we have to, but because it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u118	Thank you. You loosen up a lot...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u119	Apparently!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u120	... because I have another interruption from another man, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u121	Yes, Mr President, from a slightly different tone, I can tell you! I also think that Mrs Van den Hul would very much like to stop making that call...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u122	No, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u123	... at the moment when we have achieved what I believe we all want, I also say to Mr Beertema, namely that this Chamber will be a better reflection...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u124	Whoa, whoa, you're interrupting Mrs. Van den Hul. A brief question to Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u125	Sure, Mr. Chairman, but I felt the need to back her up on this. My question is another one. In the motion, you refer to that investigation of the World Economic Forum. I fully share the ambition. Well, there are studies that might do a little more justice to some points. Take, for example, the fact that Burundi is above the Netherlands here. I don't think either of us think women are better off there than they are here. Why did you specifically focus the motion on that World Economic Forum investigation? I like the ambition, but I find that link a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u126	I fully agreed with the Minister's words on this. As the Minister interprets this research, so I read it, namely, and that is already very much in the title of the research, that it is about that gap. The World Economic Forum has, as far as I am concerned, been very successful in putting its finger on it for years, namely that this gap, that difference between men and women, is growing. And that's the ambition I want to lay down here. So I do not want to say anything here about Rwanda, the Philippines, Nicaragua and the other countries on the list. I would just like to talk about narrowing the gap, and, as far as I am concerned, closing the gap, between men and women. That's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u127	A brief question from Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u128	I had the same question as my colleague, and I do not find it complicated, but I find it incomprehensible. I know Mrs Van den Hul as someone who says very sensible things on this file. Even though we are politically very far apart, I often agree with her. But now she comes up with a motion in which she says: no, on that ranking list of research that you can deal with so much, I would like to be at the top. I will not repeat all my arguments. Here's what I'd like to ask her. Measuring is knowing. I think it's very good that we know where we stand. But emancipation is not a competition with other countries. It's about what we achieve here in the Netherlands. So why not a motion in which the attention lies instead of on such a ranking list with totally incomparable, bizarre and idiotic theories and figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u129	Your point is clear. A brief response from Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u130	The ambition for Dutch emancipation policy remains for the emancipation debate on 5 April, which I am very much looking forward to. The Minister referred to this because I would first like to read the Dutch emancipation note of this cabinet, the first of this minister, in order to come up with really valid points. I repeat, as regards this list, as I said to the previous questioner, that I fully agree with what the Minister said. As far as I'm concerned, this is not about a competition with other countries. As far as I am concerned, it is about measuring the gap and laying down the ambition here to reduce that gap as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u131	Thank you. Let me see if Mr Van Weyenberg needs a second term. That's the case. I'll give him the floor. You too have one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for this passionate reply. That shows that you get this kind of ruler if you choose quality, I say to colleagues as an incentive. Mr. Chairman. I was pleased with the answer and, above all, with the ambition that was expressed. I believe that the Minister was ready when it came to promoting economic independence. There we still have a big way to go in the Netherlands: to make it pay more but also to make it more possible, if you are in a small part-time job, to work more hours and indeed finally put an end to the embarrassing situation in which women are still so underrepresented in boards, whether they are companies or pension fund boards. I think the Minister was ready to go: if this doesn't go any better, we're just gonna settle this legally. The Minister did not say the word 'quota', but I can also listen very carefully to unspoken words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u133	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius waived her second term. So does Mr Beertema. Then the floor is for Mr. Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u134	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is not happy with the gender pay gap;]] [[calls on the Government to be in principle positive with regard to the Initiative Act on equal pay for women and men,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Özütok and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-266]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u135	In all honesty, I find this a complicated figure. We have a habit here in this house of treating laws carefully. I will also consider Mr Ploumen's and others' own-initiative legislation very carefully. But now something remarkable is happening, because you are actually asking me for a final judgment, just as you ask the Minister, of an idea that I do not have a State Council opinion on and that is a preliminary draft.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u136	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u137	Yes, I do. Does this not make your own initiative law inadequate? I would like to talk very seriously about an initiative law. But now to ask for an opinion on a trial of a law, even before we deal with that law, I find it a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u138	Thank you. Your point is clear. Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u139	I would like to say to Mr Van Weyenberg: do not make it bigger than it is. He has to look closely at the operative part: calls on the government in principle to be positive about the law. You can still make all your comments. I am also very much looking forward to your amendments and improvements. That's gonna be a really exciting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u140	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mr. Van Weyenberg, briefly finishing at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u141	Sure. I do not think that Mr Jasper van Dijk is doing justice to the importance of this issue. In fact, I think it's a little tricky, if I'm being completely honest. I would like to ask him this. You just asked the Minister to respond. You don't even want to wait for that reaction. I find this a very strange form and, in all honesty, not worthy of the serious work of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u142	I think it's really much ado about nothing. Mr Van Weyenberg, now it is time to vote against the motion, but that will not be understood by his supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u143	No, no, no, no, no, Mr. Van Weyenberg, we're not doing this. You want to make a personal statement, Mr. Van Weyenberg? It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u144	I've seen lots more enthusiastic and better looking for support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u145	All right, we're gonna stop this debate. You're pursuing your second term. You have announced that you have two more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u146	So it is, Mr President, and I continue to count on the support of a progressive party. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the employment rate of women is promoted where there are no financial obstacles for partners to take leave;]] [[noting that this is recommended in the ESC Opinion on Optimisation of leave after childbirth to take account of lower incomes and young families in the payment of leave;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt this recommendation in the elaboration of the announced Act Introduction Extra Birth Leave,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-267]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u147	Final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 20,000 self-employed persons have been waiting 13 years for compensation for not receiving their maternity allowance;]] [[noting that the government does not intend to pay out until 2019;]] [[calls on the government not to delay the 20 000 self-employed and to make payments as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-268]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u148	Two very short points. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet, which I forgot to do. Finally, the following. The Minister advised on behalf of the cabinet to vote for a woman. Excellent. I can agree with that. I would also like to suggest to her that we add: vote for a progressive woman. I assume that's how you're gonna take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u149	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I'll take a look at Mrs. Arissen. It shall waive its second term. Then I will look at the Minister to see if she can proceed with the second-term response. That is almost the case if the Minister has the final motions on the table. We'll wait for that and then we'll move on to the Minister's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u150	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I am happy to respond in the second term to the motions put forward by the Chamber. Before I do that, I would like to say to Mr Van Dijk: try not to interpret my words that I did not mean. I said vote for a woman, period. I didn't add any adjectives to that. Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Özütok's motion is a bit of a repetition of moves. I think I have been very clear in the debate. What I regret about the motion is this. I think we share a goal with each other, and very broad, I feel. Mrs Özütok, you are now trying to focus and focus on a particular measure, while we are looking for the broadest possible support for the same objective and for the widest possible range of measures that will bring that objective closer as soon as possible. My letter says what it says. The motion is partly superfluous and partly pre-sorted. I said what I said here tonight. What you say in the motion is, in part, superfluous and, in a certain way, also for a measure. I do not want to do that at the moment, because I am talking about a result and not about the measure. That's why I advise against this motion. But again, I'm not ruling anything out. Just for the sake of clarity. Then the motion to part No. 265, by Mrs Van den Hul. I'm struggling a little with this motion. With Mrs Van den Hul, I share the ambition to close the gender gap as quickly as possible. Just, I don't think this is the happiest index to hang us from. That would discourage other countries from closing that gap, otherwise I'd be pissing off from the top five, to name but a few. I would say: let us have the ambition to close the gap and take the greatest possible steps in this cabinet period. But don't ask me to put that on a certain index. In this form, I therefore advise against the motion. But maybe you can tinker with it before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u151	I shall first give the floor to Mrs van den Hul, because it concerns the motion under which her name is the first signatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for letting me go first for a second. If I were to change the operative part into an operative part which merely expresses the ambition that we are going to try to narrow that gap and that the cabinet will do everything in its power to do so in the coming period, could the motion then count on 'judge Chamber' or perhaps even 'take over'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u153	You heard me right. I shall leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber, because I share the ambition wholeheartedly. I would be delighted if this ambition could be supported as widely as possible in the Chamber. I think that the index on which you are putting it is a bit in the way of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u154	Fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u155	Thank you. We're facing the amended motion. In my view, Mrs Özütok made another point on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u156	Yes, indeed, Mr. Chairman. I understand from the Minister's answer that she does not want to be tied to one instrument, if I may interpret her words in this way. I heard the minister right. She wants to work on it. I think we should also talk about it a little bit more broadly, so I will hold my motion until we have the wider debate next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u157	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (30420, No. 264). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u158	I would like to thank Mrs Özütok very much for that move. There are still a number of motions tabled by Mr Van Dijk. The motion in part No. In my view, 266 on the preliminary draft budget is a bit crazy. You presented the preliminary draft to me this evening. I have already promised you that this will be responded to in the action plan presented by the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. I think it is quite a commitment on the part of the cabinet to respond to a preliminary draft. To try to make some sort of quickie and in a motion to provoke a ruling on this matter... I think that Mr Van Weyenberg is absolutely right. Can we just take a good look at it first? Can we also weigh it against alternatives? I always like it when looking in this Chamber for the broadest possible support for things that we all consider important. With such a motion, I don't think you'll help your case, either in the Chamber or in the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u159	There's something above the operative part. It says that the government is not happy with the gender pay gap. We agreed on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u160	We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u161	Now there is an initiative from the Chamber to address this pay gap. How beautiful is that? I'd appreciate that in the first place. I am also very pleased with your commitment to respond to this. We're gonna wait and see. There is nothing more or less in the motion than: do we proceed constructively, in principle positively. If you don't like all that, Minister, then you can discourage it and then the Chamber will make its own decision. But it has nothing to do with quickies or anything. The question is, are we all going to work together to overcome that pay gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u162	Mr. Van Dijk, I think we are now repeating ourselves. I was not actually going to see that again in the Minister's term. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she would like to make an appreciation of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u163	Yes, but I still feel the need to respond to this and then I will give my appreciation. Of course, we share the intention regarding that pay gap. What you're saying, I think it's a little faint. After all, I have the feeling that if I were to give this motion a positive vote, I would be reading back this evening somewhere that Mr Van Dijk feels that the measures contained in the preliminary draft are going to be... If we now agree that we share the objective and that the cabinet is prepared to look at the proposal, I would say: count your blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u164	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u165	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u166	So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u167	You're dissuading the motion. It's obvious. No, I think that debate has really been enough. So I am no longer giving you the floor at this point, Mr Van Dijk. I ask the Minister to move on to Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion on item No. 267.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u168	I'd like that. That is Mr Van Dijk's motion for a law on the introduction of extra birth leave. I would also like to say: let us have that debate when the legislative proposal, the WIEG, has been tabled. Finally, the motion on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u169	Minister, this means that the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u170	... isdisadvised. Sorry, I do have to say it explicitly. You're absolutely right about that. But I think it was obvious. Finally, the Jasper van Dijk motion on item No. 268, which is about compensation for the maternity allowance. I have tried to explain that the fact that it does not take place until 2019 was done precisely in the interest of the target group. Thus one is not unexpectedly confronted with discounts on surcharges. This choice has been made precisely in the interests of those concerned. You will understand that I am also going to discourage this motion because of that interest. Mr. Chairman. They were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u171	This brings us to the end of this 30-member debate. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-15.u172	Voting on motions will take place next Tuesday. I thank everyone for their contribution.
