ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Jetten amending the Constitution aimed at the deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor, House of Commons 3471. I would like to welcome Mr Jetten in Box K. This is a second reading of a proposal to amend the Constitution. The bill was defended at first reading by former MP Gerard Schouw, who is present here today as support. Welcome back to this house, Mr. Schouw! I would also like to welcome Carsten Zwaaneveld, a member of the D66 Group, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u2	I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks for her contribution to the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about an issue that has been under discussion for a very long time. This time it is an initiative law of the Chamber. The particular feature of this initiative law is that it is a constitutional change. I would like to congratulate Mr Jetten, and through him his predecessors, on all the work they have put into this law and on the fact that at least the legislative proposal passed the first reading. I hope that we can have a good debate at second reading on this important issue. Mr President, let me now turn to the content of the legislative proposal. This Chamber speaks for the second time, at second reading, about the constitutional change to remove the appointment procedure of the King's Commissioner and the Mayor from the Constitution. At the beginning of this century, the government made the same proposal. At that time, the House of Representatives agreed to the proposal both at first and second reading. The First Chamber eventually stopped the constitutional change in 2005, because the senators of, among other things, my party at the time did not think the link between the removal of the crown appointment and the introduction of a directly elected commissioner and mayor was a good idea. In my group's view, the author and his predecessors have done well not to link this time the removal of the crown designation with the direct election of the King's Commissioner and the mayor. For, the discussion on the deletion of the crown appointment and on the way in which the Commissioner of the King and the mayor should be appointed should really be two separate discussions on GroenLinks. You shouldn't tie them to each other either. When both this Chamber and the First Chamber support this initiative proposal, the constitutional issue has been resolved, but in practice there is no change in the current legal procedures as laid down in the Province Act and the Municipal Act. I can feel an interruption coming. In other words, it is still the city council and provincial states as popular representative bodies that decide in practice who is to be appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u4	I hear the familiar story that both pathways, both processes, need to be disconnected. However, Mrs Özütok will agree with me that the condition for a change in the method of appointment, the method of appointment of the King's Commissioner or the mayor is that it should be deinstitutionalised. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u6	But that means that there will have to be a follow-up proposal after this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u7	You don't know my lines, do you? That's a dilemma. I'll get to that later. Something must be done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u8	This is enough for the moment, because then you can't make such a tight cut between both processes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u9	In my opinion, we can. If you would like to give me the opportunity, I will come back to this in my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u10	That's what Mr. Bishop does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u11	Then I'll follow up on my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you. Please continue, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u13	As far as we are concerned, the question of whether the method of appointment will be changed and, if so, how we will do so in the future will be discussed after the conclusion of this legislative initiative. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions for the author on the proposal before us. How does the petitioner see the follow-up? Does he intend to conduct an active and short-term discussion on the new method of appointment? What should the applicant's future appointment procedure look like? And can he indicate whether he sees another distinction between the position of the King's commissioner and that of the mayor? How does the removal of the crown designation relate to Article 125 of the Constitution? This article states that the Provincial States and the City Council are at the head of the province and the municipality. Now that the appointment of the King's Commissioner and the Mayor is being removed from the Constitution, at least there seems to be sufficient support for this, it may be that in future a commissioner of the King or mayor will be elected with his own mandate. Then who has the last word in conflict? Or to say it domestically, who's in charge in that case? I should like to hear from the author how he views this issue. Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, nothing will change in practice if both chambers agree to this proposal. However, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, the citizens who are following this debate are entitled to know how the various parties look at the future appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor. In any case, let me make it clear that GroenLinks is in favour of a Commissioner of the King and Mayor elected by the parliament. For my party, the position of the Provincial States and the City Council is essential for a well-functioning provincial and local democracy. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the political primacy should be in the democratically elected parliament. As far as my group is concerned, the formalisation of the current practice, whereby the Provincial States and the City Council can make the choice, fits well with the way in which we set up the local government in the Netherlands, in which the elected parliament determines the policy. When we introduce a directly elected Commissioner of the King and Mayor, we automatically introduce a different democratic system, because a directly elected mayor will be elected on his own programme and want to select his or her own aldermen. This cannot be achieved without a complete renovation of the decentralised political system, where power will be less among the representatives of the people and more among individuals. GroenLinks is not in favour of this and attaches great importance to a strong parliament. My group would like the appointment procedure to be more transparent. For example, when the crown designation is later out of the Constitution, it could be considered whether there could be more openness, for example by making part of the application procedure available to the public. I would like to ask the Minister, who is here today as an advisor to the Chamber, whether she sees opportunities for this and whether she is prepared to look into this further. Mr. Chairman. Now that we are on the eve of the debate on how the appointment will be organised when the crown designation has been removed, I have a number of other questions for the Minister. What is the Minister's position on the future method of appointment or election of the King's and Mayor's Commissioners? How does it see the follow-up process, should this initiative be given sufficient support in both chambers? Does the government intend to come up with a proposal for a new method of appointment in this case? Does she agree with GroenLinks that a directly elected Commissioner of the King and Mayor should review the tasks and powers in the decentralised system? Finally, another question to the Minister. At the moment, Commissioners of the King and Mayors are fired at 70 years of age, but observers may be 70 years old or older. I should like to hear from the Minister how she is looking at this age limit and whether she is prepared to see if this age limit is still in line with the present timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u14	Are you going to finish, Mrs Özütok? Or were you done already? Just in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always a special moment when a group member can defend an initiative law. That is certainly the case tonight. This is a constitutional amendment, with Mr Jetten being assisted by the original author, Mr Schouw, former member of the D66 Group, who was able to defend the proposal here at first reading in 2013. I wish them both every success, and I wish Mr Jetten's other advisers that same. With this second reading by the House of Representatives, the actual de-constitutionalisation of the Constitution, in other words, brings a little closer to the appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner. Thorbecke might have been a little surprised that it took so long, because as early as 1848 he said that this appointment should not belong in the Constitution but should be left to the ordinary legislator. After him, many state committees actually concluded the same thing. Today, in the first weeks of 2018, we are talking about this again. In the long history that lies in between, there has already been several broad political agreement that the method of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner does not belong in the Constitution but in an ordinary law. I would like to mention three arguments which are relevant to D66 today. Firstly, our Constitution, apart from its rigid, also sober nature, should only contain the most important constitutional matters. This concerns, for example, the fundamental rights of citizens and the position of the most important state institutions. As far as my group is concerned, the appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner is not part of that. By the way, the dualisation of local government in the beginning of this century also went through an ordinary law. And that was a pretty radical change. Second. The whole organisation of these local authorities, from establishment to composition, and many of their powers are governed by ordinary laws and not by the Constitution. As far as D66 is concerned, the appointment, suspension and dismissal of these positions also apply to those ordinary laws. This argument can also be seen in the light of the fact that the mayor and the King's Commissioner have also become less and less a rich body and have become more involved in local and regional democracy, as part of it. Thirdly, D66 considers it important for the ordinary legislator to have the opportunity to respond to changing insights when it comes to the position and appointment. That is how we saw it at first reading, and that is how we still see it today. Finally. The author, as can also be seen in the explanatory memorandum and in the note accompanying the report, says he wants to refrain from commenting on what should happen after this law when it comes to the method of appointment. That seems to me to be pure and fair, but it is no secret that D66 has been in favour of elected directors at all levels, including in municipalities and provinces since its creation. However, that is not what I would like to repeat once again what this legislative proposal is about. This proposal merely allows the ordinary legislator to decide on the method of appointment, not the constitutionalist. By deconstitutionalising this method of appointment, I hope that the social and political debate will also be given more room for manoeuvre. For that is in fact always burdened by the schizophrenia of being able to change this at all. D66 looks forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations, not to Mr Jetten, actually. It sounds a bit unkind, but to Mr Schouw, who wrote this bill and launched it at the time. I remember Mr Schouw's passionate pleas for democracy, not only in that debate but in any case. Too bad he left the Chamber, but congratulations on the fact that the proposal came through the First Chamber and the Second Chamber and that we are now here for a second reading. That doesn't happen very often. Many constitutional changes, proposals for this, beaches in the Lower House and a few also in the Upper House. But now this is coming back. We're not going through much of that. That is a compliment to the people who have brought it to this. There are things, President, that you cannot explain to foreigners, for example how the broadcasting system works in the Netherlands. You shouldn't get into that. It is also very difficult to explain that we have unelected mayors in the Netherlands. That is essentially a kind of feudal thing, something that reminds of the past and which actually has little to do with the future. It also has little to do with how it goes around the world. All over the world, for example, people choose their mayor, their commissioner or whatever they have in those countries. This proposal opens the way to doing so in the Netherlands. I understand perfectly well, and that is quite politically wise.... that the proposers keep to the level about the question: what now? But, of course, it makes sense that we're just gonna choose our mayor. It's a nice proposition. It is good that D66 is committed to democracy in this way. In addition to putting the crown jewels overboard, it is nice that there are still some things from Hans van Mierlo's furniture that the party is not ashamed of. Mayors are bizarrely many members of parties that have long since ceased to be the popular parties they were twenty or thirty years ago. 83% of all mayors are members of CDA, VVD or Labour Party. The Labour Party has been reduced by the voter to an irrelevant nine-seater split, including one remaining seat. If Moorlag had kept his foot stiff, it would've just turned eight. And yet a third of all Dutch people sigh under an unelected PvdA mayor. That's really weird. The Labour Party gets 5.7% of the votes, but 32% of the Dutch have an unelected PvdA mayor. Then look again what the PvdA sends unelected into the field. In Rotterdam there is someone who openly declares to be a salafist, while the AIVD has been describing Salafism as a major danger for many years. This mayor also generalizes about Muslims. He says they're all a little salafist. Imagine Geert Wilders saying that. The NPO would explode with indignation! The PvdA mayor of Arnhem is an open supporter of Yusuf al-Qaradawi, the Islamic spiritual leader who praises Hitler and the Holocaust. And this gentleman, Mr. Marcouch, openly discriminates and says that PVV people are not allowed to join the police. Yes, the Labour Party is off the hook, but if you have a wrong opinion, you need to get fired. Last week, the PvdA mayor of Harlingen demonstrated that he could not stand above the parties. He said the PVV wasn't decent and that he was happy that my party wasn't in the election there. Turns out what? The good man has been a member of the CPN, the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u20	Mr. Bosma. You all mention people who are not taking part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u21	Yeah, but it's about it. It's about unelected mayors...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u22	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u23	...from whom you might expect them to be above the parties, like the gentleman in Harlingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u24	But those people aren't there and they can't defend themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u25	No, but they are the result of policies and laws that we hope we can abolish. But what does it turn out to be about the mayor of Harlingen? I'm not mentioning his name, Mr. Chairman. That mayor has been a member of the Communist Party, part of international communism, accounting for 94 million deaths. Unelected mayors often speak the language of the left elite. An unelected mayor often leaves his ears hanging with the minister and those elites, because they have to help him in the next post. And so many mayors use politically correct language and give out full virtue signals. For example, they welcome the pseudo-refugees. That gives you bonus points in power and then you can roll over to a larger municipality. A little PVV-bashen wants to help. An elected mayor will listen much more to the people, because he depends on it. For example, if his congregation threatens to fall prey to the Islamic invasion, it will keep its feet stiff. Mr. Chairman. Democracy in the Netherlands is not doing so well. We have already discussed this on several occasions on various stages. A lot of decisions are now taking place that are not supported by our people. Black Piet becomes by a Minister Minister Asscher, may I mention his name? And many unelected mayors turned their throats. Sinterklaas committees will be replaced to facilitate the murder of our Black Piet. There's a much broader war going on against our culture, a sculpture storm. See Jan Pieterszoon Coen, Mauritshuis, Peerke Donders et cetera. Our people don't want that at all, but why is it happening? That's easy. If the left elite are on the same page, it just happens. Uncontrollable decisions are made in back rooms. The people's opinion is totally irrelevant. The biggest problem in the Netherlands is the mind-killing one-sidedness of those elites. In the media, universities, ministries, churches and the Public Prosecutor's Office: the same ideology is in power everywhere, diversity ideology, road-with-us culture, multiculture, cosmopolitanism, open borders, EU religion. And if the elites want something, it happens. See also mass immigration. See also the European Union. In Britain, measures are taken immediately, the next morning, when the people say: Brexit, from the EU. With us in the Netherlands, the results of referendums go out the same day. See referenda on the European Constitution and referendum on Ukraine. The referendum, very popular in the Netherlands, is now being demolished. The people must remain silent. Hans van Mierlo demanded, for example, that the referendum be settled in 1995. It is precisely his party that is now taking the lead in the fight to ensure that we cannot even have a referendum as far as the referendum is concerned. The irony knows no bounds. Especially the party that was founded to bring voters and politicians closer together now delivers the Minister of the Interior. Next week a year ago she made a New Year's speech for her party in Amsterdam. For many that is a great opportunity to perform a sense of harmony, but Miss Ollongren already switched to pure aggression against my party after three paragraphs. 90% of its text was devoted to the PVV. What an obsession. What is her vision of the capital's future, we were wondering at that time. Well, get Wilders out of here! And his party, the PVV, is not even represented in the Amsterdam city council. Mrs. Ollongren is now abolishing the referendum. The irony is complete. It's a shame that that happens. It's actually a great sadness for the Netherlands. It is a pity that this party, D66, is now putting forward this very small consolation prize, and is not committed to a real, direct democracy for which the party was founded. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few more questions to Mr Jetten. The Minister states that Amsterdam must leave the Kingdom of the Netherlands when the PVV comes to power in the Netherlands. It is against the rule of law, against democracy and against the Constitution, but what if we can get an elected mayor, I think, the logical consequence of this constitutional change? And what if all or some PVV mayors come to power in their respective municipalities? Should these municipalities be completely in line with the D66 ideology then also out of the Kingdom? Or can they just stay in the Netherlands? The previous speaker was very flat on the question of what now and how now, and I understand that, but I hear from Mr Jetten a beautiful future scenario. There has been a lot of work and this is a constitutional change with a long history that has been widely thought about and again compliments for its creators, but you are not just doing that to get something out of it. You do that because you want to go somewhere, because you have the idea that something needs to change in the Netherlands. I understand that the author doesn't want to share that with us, but he does open a Pandora box, as it were, which obliges him to tell us why. How does he see that? And how does he see the position of the mayor in the future, who may soon be elected in an election campaign and is almost the strong man? At least, the suggestion will be that the mayor will take care of it all, but he doesn't have that much power within a congregation at all. Those are interesting things to talk about. I would therefore like to know something about how to proceed and what the point is on the horizon, in order to use a widely used term by Mr Pechtold. How does he see it developing? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u27	Madam President, thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Jetten on the professional way in which he has taken over the defence of this bill, following in the footsteps of the one who is now covering him. What struck me is a phrase somewhere at the end of the defense, in which Mr Jetten states that he would like to draw some substantive appreciation of the present proposal to the members of the SGP Group. Well, that is of course a warm invitation and we are certainly used to doing everything we can to achieve such a sincere wish. But I have to make you a disappointment, my colleague. It didn't work. Not because we do not want an open debate on the appointment of the mayor, but precisely because Mr Jetten is avoiding that substantive debate, like his colleague at first reading. As far as the SGP is concerned, we are talking about the direction we want to take and the choices we want to make. And then a bill like this is some kind of closure. Which direction do you intend to take? Should it be a directly elected mayor? Or is the mayor or the king's commissioner elected by the council or council? The States? Will a special electoral college be set up? Or is nothing changing at all and the current growing practice maintained? Because this lack of clarity about the purpose of this constitutional change exists at the moment, we as SGP say: people, at the moment, do not start. I would like once again to mention a number of key points that we have against this proposal. First of all, the description of the most important state bodies and the way in which they take up their duties, according to our belief, belong to the Constitution. Mr Thorbecke may have said in the past 'this procedure is not really part of it', but we are opposed to the fact that the Constitution on Municipal Councils and Provincial States correctly mentions how the 'appointment' takes place, namely by election once every four years. On how the mayor should get his office, the Constitution would be silent. Why then decide how the city council and the states are elected? This should follow a consistent line. That's the first objection: you're making an inconsistency. The second objection: the mayor becomes a political animal in a direct election and even in an indirect election through the council. This also applies to the King's commissioner. It will be a political animal with its own mandate and that will turn local relations upside down. The debate on this legislative proposal cannot therefore be separated from the substantive implications for the various options that are conceivable. We believe that we should discuss this first. I admit it's a field full of footangels and clamps, but it's a purer discussion. The third objection is that the independence and impartiality of the mayor and the King's Commissioner are under pressure, which is precisely one of the reasons why the mayor often scores high in the appreciation of local directors today. A further objection concerns the relationship between the city council on the one hand and the aldermen on the other. So what is the specific role of this elected mayor in any form? It is an extremely complicated choice that we make if that mayor is to be elected. A bottleneck also remains in the special tasks of the mayor in areas such as security, care and coercion. I admit that it is not the most voluminous package, but it is indeed a task of the state, a task of its own that can easily get caught up. As a final objection, I mention the relationship between the mayor's mandate as a state body versus his responsibility to the people or the council. I only have to refer to a municipality like Brunssum and we all understand the tension that this creates. Then a question to the Minister. This concerns the moment of filing. The Council of State has rightly called for attention to be paid to the moment of filing. Mr Jetten states that he considered that he had acted within the time limit set by the government on 1 May. In a way, he is quite right about that. At the same time, the following applies to all of us. It is important that the initiators of constitutional changes always bear in mind that the submission takes place on the first day of the new Lower House, if possible, during the next Lower House elections. Although this is not to be seen literally in Article 137 of the Constitution, it must certainly be seen as a constitutional duty, which has already been mentioned in the House of Representatives. The spirit of the Constitution in this regard is no less directing than its letter. It must be avoided that, for political reasons, it is possible to postpone a second reading at any time. This is clearly not the case here, but I'm detecting a tension field. That is why I ask the government to review or review the text of Article 137 in detail, including in the light of the opinion of the 2003 Council of State and the very recent opinion of the same Council of September 2017. Is the government prepared to come forward with proposals on this? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u29	Mr. Chairman. Mr Jetten's own-initiative proposal, which already has a rich history, is very nice to see you again, Mr Schouw, and in which the King's appointment is removed from the Constitution. This gives the legislator the freedom to determine the method of appointment. It will not be surprising that we support the legislative proposal, because it is the second reading. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating the fact that D66 is persistent in continuing to polish this crown jewel and for the fact that the group has pulled it out of the antique cabinet to bring it further. We're positive. We asked a number of questions in the written round and in the first instance. My sincere question is therefore: what is left to ask? Honestly, about this bill not so much anymore. At the same time, we all know that there is still a difference of opinion as to whether you should start this legislative proposal, if you do not fully agree on what the follow-up should look like and how far you should go. You can do that in all kinds of forms. You can opt for direct appointment or indirect appointment. You can also opt for a stepped appointment. You can choose freedom of appointment, but that will also be an important consideration, not only in this house, but also on the other side where there will be deep and thorough discussion of this bill. I therefore put a question to both Mr Jetten and the Minister. I want to know not so much what the content of the follow-up looks like, but how they intend to shape this follow-up process and how the Chambers are included in it, or the levels of government in which this legislative proposal has far-reaching consequences for it. Mr President, I will conclude. I wish the initiator good luck with his bill. I look forward to answering the questions that have been asked. It'll follow at another time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to congratulate the author, Mr Jetten, but also his spiritual father in this respect, Mr Schouw. What's it about today? It is not about changing the way the Commissioner of the King or the Mayor is appointed today. Even if Mr Jetten's own-initiative proposal were adopted, the current method of appointment would not change. The only question is whether it should be in the Constitution or whether it should be in an ordinary law. Today, it is only about whether Article 131 of the Constitution should require the Commissioner and the mayor to be appointed by royal decree. The bill wants to amend this article. If we do this, the current method of appointment will still remain in the Province Act and in the Municipal Act. We are not changing these laws now and the underlying practice is not changed either. So what's this practice now? For the record, at the moment, the mayor is selected by a very careful method. There's an open application and anyone can come forward. In doing so, there are no party requirements or even a requirement to be a member of a party. A trust committee of a city council interviews the candidates and makes a recommendation. This recommendation is accepted in practice by the Minister for the Interior and is subsequently confirmed in the form of a royal decree. Now, what does the VVD think of the proposal? The VVD supports it. The complainant considers that the legislator should be allowed the freedom to determine the method of appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner. The VVD believes that the Constitution should not stand in the way of the debate. However, it is good for the clarity of our state system that the Constitution should at least continue to mention those two posts, but then refer to the ordinary law for the method of appointment. So what needs to be done in practice with the method of appointment is not the issue at present. But that is because the current provisions in ordinary law remain unchanged. But now that the mayors in particular are the subject of discussion, I feel a responsibility to say something about the essential role that mayors have in the current system. In the VVD's view, the appointment of the mayor should be considered in the overall functioning of the municipal government. Important key to the position of the mayor is his or her strict independence. The mayor is now the independent chairman of the city council, which is above the parties. And mayorship is a central function in local democracy, which, in the current system, greatly benefits from that independent position. The independent and non-political mayor also has a central role in maintaining public order and, finally, the independent mayor also has a strong position in reducing the undermining crime. I am referring above all to reducing the interference of the underworld in the upper world and therefore also in local politics. But perhaps even more important than all this is that in practice many people are satisfied with their mayor and the way it works. I am thinking, of course, of the highly esteemed mayor Van der Laan in Amsterdam, who unfortunately has slipped us. I am also thinking of my former mayor, Mr Theo Weterings, who recently left the Haarlemmermeer and now started in Tilburg. I saw at his farewell how loved he is in that church, from front to back and from left to right, and regardless of his political color. Now is not the time to change the system in this debate, but if there are proposals, then the VVD will start the debate. We will assess all proposals in the light of the overall system of local democracy. The independence of the mayor and the confidence he enjoys are very important. It is unrealistic to change only one part of the system. The appointment of the mayor, if it were to change, would affect the entire system. And so the whole system has to be weighed. Mr. Chairman. I've come to a conclusion. None of this is on the agenda today. The only question that is currently being raised is whether the method of appointment should be in the Constitution or not. The VVD also said at first reading that the Constitution should not stand in the way of this debate, and that is what the VVD still believes. It is also not necessary for the Constitution to include this method of appointment. Therefore, the VVD will agree to remove from the Constitution the way in which the Mayor and the King's Commissioner are appointed, no more and no less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u31	Thank you. Mr Van Raak has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u32	I would like to congratulate Mr Jetten and, of course, Mr Schouw, old warrior! But I also congratulate Mr De Graaf, who defended this law in the Upper House on 22 March 2005. I was a member of the First Chamber at the time and also spokesperson. I voted against this law then. It is the day later called "the night of Van Thijn." It started at 9:00 in the morning and ended deep into the night. All day long there was talk of the directly elected mayor. That was a remarkable debate, because that law was not before. The law governing the appointment of the mayor was to be removed from the Constitution. That is a very different matter, but those two issues were directly linked at the time. I have looked very closely at the current coalition agreement. I have seen a bit of comfort in that, because it says that this initiative law will continue to be dealt with. Let me take you back to 2005. We then had cabinet-Balkenende II, a coalition of VVD, CDA and D66, so not yet with the Christian Union, but it seemed a bit like it. In that coalition, it was agreed that there should be a directly elected mayor. At the time that was very against the sore leg of many MPs here and in the Upper Chamber of both the VVD and the CDA, but yes, appointment is an appointment and the law was passed. But it is precisely because it was made political and because a form of mayor was already attached to the destitutionalisation that the discussion was stranded, the law was stranded and even a minister was stranded. Once again, I have read the current coalition agreement correctly, and I believe that we can now have an open, clear legal discussion on whether the method of appointment of the mayor is constitutional in nature. I do not agree with Green van Prinsterer and I agree more with Thorbecke, who said that it is not. Therefore, this time here in this Chamber, I will vote for this law. However, I do have the question as to why this deconstitutionalisation, this change of the Constitution, was chosen as the start of a discussion on the future mayor. It may sound weird to say, since 1848, but why hasn't there been some waiting until we had that discussion and until there was a plan and a comprehensive law for a new mayor? In that case, deconstitutionalisation could also have been a final piece of a very large process. Why wasn't that chosen? Of course, not only does the question "why now?', but also the question "what then?" Up. In practice, we have actually, practically speaking, a mayor who may not be entirely elected by the city council, but yet again. In any case, it is proposed to the Minister, and the Minister will always take over the nomination, unless there are serious objections because the wrong things come out of the wrong files. This means that, with the current practice, we are actually very far removed from what we have laid down in the Constitution, because there is still a crown designation, but it no longer resembles what was laid down in 1848. This shows how elastic and therefore how useful our Constitution is. The way you choose the mayor also depends on what you want with that mayor. If you want to have a very politically pronounced mayor, with your own political program, it might make sense to choose someone like that directly. The question is, who's in charge in the city? Mrs Özütok pointed that out. If you choose both the mayor and the city council directly, who has the last word? As far as we are concerned, that must be the representative of the people. If you have a mayor who is above the parties, who is a symbol of the community, who should not be too much politically spoken, then it is also much more logical to choose the mayor, but then by the city council. My question to the Minister is what her views are and to what extent the Minister's ideal is in line with current practice. After we had a Constitution in 1848, it continued in practice. We now have a very different practice that barely fits within the Constitution, only with a lot of sands and scratches. Can't we just codify the current practice? I also have a question about the time of filing. Mr Bishop has already spoken about this. We have had a major problem with the corrective referendum. Mr Jetten submitted it on time, according to a letter from the previous Minister, but if you look at the state-law discussions that have taken place in the Upper Chamber and in this Chamber and the letters we have received from the Minister and the Council of State's opinion up to twice, we must nevertheless conclude that it must be done much faster. I would like the Minister's view on this to be clear once and for all. A lot of questions are being asked about the future form of the mayor. If Mr Jetten is wise, and he is, I wouldn't say too much about that if I were him. In the debate on the corrective referendum, he noted, as a spokesperson, that D66 had renounced the corrective referendum in the negotiations in the coalition agreement, but stood for a directly elected mayor. This suggests that the corrective referendum and the exchange of the consultative referendum has been a sort of exchange within the coalition with VVD, CDA and this time ChristianUnion for the directly elected mayor. If that is the case, it would also be appropriate to say so, because that could still affect my voting behaviour. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u33	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u34	Mr President, thank you very much. I heard Mr Bosma refer to the mayor of Harlingen. Now I know the mayor of Harlingen's birthday is today. I thought that I would begin by congratulating Mr Sluiter, who, incidentally, is now enjoying dinner in front of the building in the square, so I can tell you. I had to leave this earlier because this wonderful debate would take place. But you have to pay for it! Mr. Chairman. The preparation and defence of an initiative proposal is quite a job. If you also propose an initiative law on the Constitution, that is a double task. First of all, like the previous speakers, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr Jetten, and thus to Mr Schouw, for the task he has taken on his shoulders. The choice ahead of us tonight is clear. As far as the CDA is concerned, the appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner may be made out of the Constitution. Because the method of appointment was laid down in the Constitution, it was not formally easy to change. However, the method of appointment has changed in practice, from a unilateral decision by the Minister to a nomination on a proposal from the municipal council as laid down in Article 61 of the Municipal Law. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group strongly attaches importance to the independent and impartial position of the mayor in the municipal system. Does the initiator agree with me that the method of appointment should continue to guarantee the independence and impartiality of the mayor? The signals that we get very regularly about, for example, the integrity of local government, but also the undermining again confirm the value of the mayor's position for the CDA group. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we do not design a replacement appointment in an afternoon, just for the reason I mentioned, just on the back of a beer skin. By removing the method of appointment from the Constitution, there will be room for the legislator to change the procedure if necessary. That also the ordinary legislator should not do so lightly, is self-evident to the CDA Group. The appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner is not separate from the further establishment of the public administration at local and provincial level. A change in the method of appointment will therefore have to be accompanied by a broader study of its impact on local and provincial government relations. There are all issues that arise as: how do the tasks, powers and responsibility of the mayor relate to the tasks, powers and responsibility of, for example, the aldermen, but also, of course, primarily of the city council? I would therefore very much like to ask the author, but certainly also the Minister, as an advisor to the Chamber, to put the question to the Minister in particular, because we now have to take another step to do what she is going to do in order to carry out an in-depth investigation that provides enough information to make choices about it in the future, because we will have to act carefully here. A change in the way in which the mayor is appointed will not, as far as our group is concerned, automatically lead to a change in the way in which the King's Commissioner is appointed. To sum up, I agree with the proposal presented by Mr Jetten to the Chamber at second reading, but in particular with a plea from the CDA Group to look carefully at the follow-up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u35	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr. Chairman. We have before us the proposal of law which should lead to the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor through the ordinary legislator. So no more appointment through the Constitutionalist, in which the electorate's will can be totally disregarded. This destitutionalisation comes as called at a time when, in particular, mayor's appointments seem to completely ignore the popular will. It is becoming increasingly clear that we are on the leash of the party cartel, even though some 40% of municipal politics have now become municipal politics by local parties that should be able to operate autonomously. The cartel can do with a phone call: you owe your job to us; as a senior politician, you have to do what we want. And it's done with the new azc. That's how the locals get enslaved. In Amsterdam there is ad interim Jozias van Aartsen, party cardinal and administrative phenomenon with administrative gifts that know exactly what his municipalities are willing to swallow, exclusively equipped with psychic gifts, you may think. And that in the perspective of Mayor Femke Halsema, who is being prepared for office with the help of party cartels and their dedicated media.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u37	Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u38	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u39	I have just made a comment to Mr Bosma on the names of people who are not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mr Bosma has replicated that. In his wake, I would like to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u41	Yeah, that's what I thought. But they can't defend themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u42	The names I mention do not deviate from the list on which Mr Bosma based the discoveries. So there's nothing new under the sun, Madam President. In Arnhem Pardoes Marcouch appeared on stage. That looked up to the bourgeoisie. But so, as a lover of Vitesse, he didn't know where to find his way to the stadium. In Rotterdam, Aboutaleb is the never-elected father of the city. Something of a salafist, it turns out. You'll get some that you didn't know about. In Harlingen, the mayor informs his citizens that they should be pleased that a party such as the Forum does not participate in the elections. What his citizens think of that, it seems, will be of no use to him. And that also at a time when the mayor in particular does not excel in humility and service. More and more, he appears to be a self-chosen moral leader for his congregations. They are spoken anointing and preaching without delay and addressed on their civic duties. They need to connect more, they need to be more tolerant and they need to show greater dignity in all directions. Such a role as a moral leader and guardian of the good citizen's decency should only allow the political minister who knows how to behave through a strong electoral mandate. The Forum for Democracy is also strongly in favour of the elected mayor. In such a case, he really has a right to speak. This bill belongs to Mr Jetten of D66. This brings particularly melancholic memories of D66, especially Hans van Mierlo and Hans Gruijters, FvD'ers in heart and soul when it comes to elected ministers. Now it is careful with the democratic aims of D66. In fact, D66 and direct democracy, that has become a suspicious liaison. That is the case with the disposal of any form of referendum in one day and it is hardly possible to wait for the garbage truck that comes to collect the rest of the waste. Now to restrict freedom of expression. Gruijters and Van Mierlo would think, hearing that: Ollongren, you don't mean that, stop; that's fake news. The Democracy Forum supports this proposal, also as a posthumous tribute to these electoral representatives of the people, and in future to safeguard the citizens from being stuck with outranked party cartel politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u43	Thank you. Then this brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u44	I give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the political groups for their first contribution. We are discussing an initiative legislative proposal this evening, which is the most important and, in fact, the sole objective of removing the position of the mayor and the King's Commissioner from the Constitution. That proposal, as it turns out this evening, has broad support in this Chamber. A number of questions have been asked about this bill to me, but also to the Minister. I will answer the questions that have been asked to me in a moment. I will also briefly comment on some of the comments and observations made by a number of Members of the Chamber. But, Mr President, before I do that, I would like to thank a few people briefly. They were mentioned earlier tonight. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Carsten Zwaaneveld and Mr Huub Linthorst. Carsten Zwaaneveld is behind me and Huub Linthorst is in the back of the hall. They are two highly valued lawyers from our group who always assist the group in the initiative legislative proposals that we put forward in this Chamber, for which we are grateful. I would also like to thank Mr Gerard Schouw, who rightly received a number of compliments from the Chamber and who, as a former member of this Chamber, was the initiator of the first reading of this law. Years ago, when Mr Schouw was a senator, I was allowed to be his policy officer. I therefore find it particularly special that he is sitting behind me tonight as an advisor in this business. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the question. I would like to do so on a number of issues: firstly, the purpose of this law, secondly, the discussion on constitutional aspects and finally, briefly, the future. Mr. Chairman. This initiative law has a long history: from Thorbecke through all kinds of state committees to here tonight. As has already been said, Thorbecke felt, in the drafting of this Constitution, that the method of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner could well be organized by ordinary law. In 1887, the Heemskerk State Commission also wrote: "How the appointment of the chairman of the municipal council should be carried out is best decided by the legislator." A few decades later, in 1922, the Ruijs de Beerenbrouck State Commission came to the same conclusion: "The legislator should be left free to appoint the chairman of the council by a different authority than the Crown." Cals and Donner also wrote in the final report of their committee in 1971: "The legislator must decide here and have the possibility to choose between different solutions. At the same time, if the existing situation is changed, it will be possible to make corrections subsequently on the basis of the experience gained." The Van Thijn Committee wrote in the early 1990s: "The removal of the mayor's method of appointment from the Constitution gives the legislator the opportunity to react in a procedurally less cumbersome manner to widely supported changes and insights." The report of the 2000 State Dualism and Local Democracy Committee again recommends the removal of the Constitution. In view of all past experience and the opinions that have been issued on several occasions, my group decided in 2012 to submit a clear and targeted initiative law. This law proposes to remove the position of mayor and commissioner of the King from the Constitution and to regulate it by ordinary law in future; nothing more and nothing less. It is important to emphasise, as a number of Members have done, including Mrs Özütok, that current practice does not change in principle if we have adopted this constitutional amendment in both chambers. For in Article 61 of the Municipal Law and the Province Law we have now regulated how we organise the appointment and appointment of mayor and commissioner of the King. What does change after the adoption of this proposal is how we can change that practice. The Second and First Chambers can then change the method of appointment of mayor and commissioner by majority if the time and role of both officials in local and regional government so require. That is not the motivation that exists now or that specifically fits with this initiative law, but goes back to 1848. Mr. Chairman. A number of political groups and Members have spoken about the position of this appointment in the Constitution as it stands today. This evening, but also earlier in the written input to the first reading, the SGP Group discussed the question in detail: is this method of appointment not simply part of the Constitution? I would actually like to answer that question by asking two other questions, namely: is the method of appointment of the mayor and the Commissioner essential for the organisation of important state institutions? And is the appointment of the mayor essential to the rights and duties of the inhabitants of this country? My answer to those two questions is no twice. It is important that we have mentioned the mayor and the King's Commissioner in the Constitution. This will continue to be the case if we adopt this initiative law, but the way we choose them does not need to be regulated in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u46	So at first hearing it sounds very logical, only I think we should stick a spade deeper. Then it's about the mandate. It does make a difference how a Commissioner or a mayor comes to his or her office and what mandate is associated with it. This has implications for the powers and place of the other bodies. I will confine myself to the congregation for a moment: the aldermen and the council. That is why the answer to the questions you are asking should be yes. That relationship should be regulated in the Constitution. If that doesn't happen, you're organizing your own administrative misery. That is what the SGP is very afraid of, as a conscious party governed by state law. That's what the "s" stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u47	At first reading, a nice debate was held with Mr Schouw on what exactly these "s" stand for. At that time the conclusion was also "statistical," so it's nice that this is still the case. I believe that Mrs Özütok has just said in her first speech that we have regulated in Article 125 of the Constitution that the city council and the provincial states are both the highest bodies in that tier of government. We will soon have laid down in Article 131 of the Constitution that the mayor and the King's Commissioner will play a role in this. As far as I am concerned, that is enough to be included in the Constitution. As far as I am concerned, the way in which the mayor is elected, the range of tasks and the powers associated with them, and the relationship he has with the other bodies in the municipality, can be perfectly regulated by ordinary law. I agree with Mr Bishop that we need to respond together to the debate on the future method of appointment, but I will look at this in a little more detail when I come to the 'future' block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u48	A brief reaction to that. Precisely because this kind of thing remains in the Constitution, but in practice there will be a change in the position if there is an election in any way, by definition changes the relationship with the other administrative bodies, whether you like it or not, and whether it is constitutionally anchored or not. That is why our argument is that this legislative proposal should be the end of the discussion and not the starting point. Is the gentleman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u49	Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u50	... Jetten agree with me? The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u51	That is the right answer, but I shall say a little more. I have just said that the purpose of this law is nothing more and nothing less than to remove it from the Constitution. My answer to the question of whether this affects citizens' rights and obligations is no. My answer to the question of whether it is essential for the organisation of important state institutions is still no. We also see this in practice over the last 150 years. The position of the mayor and the King's Commissioner has changed over the decades, either because other tasks have been assigned to them or because other tasks have been assigned to the mayor or the Commissioner. Since we have now enshrined the method of appointment in the Constitution, we cannot allow the method of appointment to be aligned with the role of the mayor in the local government at that time, by ordinary law and after a proper debate in this Chamber and in the First Chamber. It is precisely in order to do justice to the concerns of Mr Bishop, among others, that I would say: remove this form of appointment from the Constitution now, so that, in a broader debate, we can look at the role of the mayor in local government and let his tasks and responsibilities be properly aligned with the way in which we choose or appoint him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u52	I agree with Mr Jetten that the way in which the mayor is appointed does not belong in the Constitution, and also that the way in which the Commissioner is appointed does not belong in the Constitution. Does he agree with me that the way in which the Head of State is appointed does not belong in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u53	This evening we are discussing a constitutional amendment in which I propose that at least the way in which the mayor and the Commissioner are appointed be removed from the Constitution. It seems to me to be an interesting discussion to consider at a later stage whether the way in which the Head of State could be appointed could also be arranged in a different way, but that is not the issue this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u54	No, but I only noticed that that position had been forgotten, which of course is the same. Mr Jetten must have an opinion on this. Is the appointment of the head of state constitutional, if you compare it to the mayor or the commissioner?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u55	Tonight we are discussing my initiative law to remove the way in which the mayor and the Commissioner are appointed from the Constitution. Mr Van Raak also knows that my party is critical of the way we elect the head of government, for example, but that is not the issue tonight. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, that was also the piece on constitutional aspects. I would have expected nothing less than Mr Bishop to interrupt me on that. Now I'm gonna come to the future. Because I have been asked questions about this by a lot of Members. Then I have to give my first answer: this evening we are discussing a constitutional change that will remove the current position of the mayor and the Commissioner from the Constitution, so that we can deal with it by ordinary law in future. And again, this practice does not change in the first instance, because we have already regulated this in the Municipal Law and the Province Law. But I do understand the questions that have been asked, the comments that have been made and the views that have sometimes been outlined. We have seen this in the media over the last few days, which, of course, looked at this debate with some interest and, above all, wanted to know how we will do it in the future. Mr. Chairman. I do not think it is up to me as the initiator of this constitutional change to draw conclusions on what this future should look like. That is up to the legislator, and we are meeting here tonight as a constitutionalist. However, I would like to mention a number of points, because I think that the Chamber has raised a number of valid issues. You can also see the differences. Mr Bosma and Mr Hiddema are on one side of the spectrum: the mayor should play a more political role in the Netherlands in the future. The mayor should be directly elected by the people, and he should perhaps be given more to the city council and aldermen than is currently the case. On the other side of the spectrum are Mr Van der Molen and Mr Koopmans. They say: the independent and impartial role of the mayor is the crucial aspect that we already have; we should not throw that child away with the bath water. In between, if I may put you there, Mrs Özütok and Mr Van Raak: they want a mayor elected by the city council, because the city council is the highest body of local government. I think that all these aspects should be taken into account when discussing in future whether we should change the way in which we are appointed, namely impartiality, independence, the relationship of the mayor with aldermen and with the city council. The previous Minister, Minister Plasterk, has, among other things, mapped out a number of things for this purpose at the request of the First Chamber. He has mapped out what the bottlenecks are in today's practice, but he has also mapped out what the different variants of a different interpretation might be. Mr Van Raak asked me why this initiative law has already started discussion on that future this evening. In my view, this is largely due to the fact that a lot of questions were asked about this in the First Chamber at the first reading of this law and that the Minister mapped it out. In the Committee on the Interior, this Chamber has decided not to discuss the Minister's letters on this subject at this stage and to wait until the adoption of this initiative law by both Chambers. That still seems to me to be the pure order: first the debate of the constitutionalist and then the debate of the legislator. Should this initiative proposal be adopted by both Chambers after tonight, I am confident that it will succeed in this Chamber at least, and that will apply to everyone here, I will be happy to discuss with you the future position and the way in which we elect the mayor and the King's Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u56	Yeah, I get all that. It is, of course, the easiest to give an answer in the vein of: it is a broad spectrum; it finds this and it finds that, and it has investigated this. That's all nice, but of course that's not an answer. You're doing something far-reaching. It's about a constitutional change that might get through. That's what we rarely do with this. You don't just do that for fun and for fun. Then you should also outline which way you think it should go. Perhaps it should be in the direction of D66 that we give the mayor much more power, or much less, or maybe he should be elected, or not at all, or by the city council. Surely you have a bit of a picture of that when you start something so fundamental?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u57	I don't think it's a secret for anyone what D66's position is on direct election of directors, including the mayor. It has been since 1966. But tonight I am standing here as the initiator of a constitutional change that takes the current method of appointment out of that Constitution. It doesn't suit me to anticipate the discussion tonight. The position of D66 is always known, including to Mr Bosma. But I think I can take the liberty of saying here on behalf of my group that, should this constitutional amendment be adopted, we should also enter into the debate. I believe that the aim should be to further strengthen local democracy. That's where you take the mayor's position. But we are going to open that debate, and we are going to open it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u58	In any case, it is a gain from this debate that D66 has a consistent position. On another important state-law issue, the referendum, there is no such thing. Well, there is another consistent point of view every week; let me put it this way. Anyway, at least we've been able to see that the citizen still has to choose the mayor. Apparently, that is still the position. And what about the value of that mayor in the city? Does D66 then want to strengthen it in a future scenario? Or does it say: well, it's actually fine as it is right now; if he's chosen, then that's enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u59	I have just mentioned a number of themes that have been brought forward by the Chamber itself in the first term. I mentioned, on the one hand, the more political role, and, on the other hand, the importance of independence and impartiality, given to the mayor by a number of other groups. We will first have to answer the question of what role we want this mayor to play in the future in local government. After that, you can only answer the question of whether he should be elected directly, whether he can do so through current practice, or whether he should do so through the city council. It is therefore too early to answer this question. It's not about that tonight either. This amendment of the Constitution is only about removing the method of appointment from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u60	Mr Jetten placed himself beautifully above the parties in this reply. He could be an excellent crown-appointed mayor later in his career; I see that happening. But I have a question for Mr Jetten and also for the Minister about care. Mr Jetten pointed out that there were a number of letters from the minister's predecessor, Mr Plasterk. I will not judge Mr Plasterk's letters of value, but at least the CDA Group does not think that this is enough. With just a few letters with above-mentioned "scenarios," we cannot consider the future of local government. That's what I said in my contribution. I would very much like Mr Jetten to respond to what is more necessary in order to be able to make informed statements on whether we want to amend it. And through Mr Jetten, I would like to say that I would very much like to hear her position on that point later in the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u61	I have indeed heard Mr Van der Molen ask the Minister what additional investigations might be needed. I think it is important that, after the constitutional change has been completely completed, we, as the Chamber in the Committee on the Interior, discuss these letters from Minister Plasterk and the scenarios outlined therein. In doing so, we, as political groups, can also ask each other more about where we stand with regard to the future position of the mayor and the way in which we choose it. Let us therefore see at that point whether additional studies are needed in order to be able to answer these questions properly. I can't do that from this place right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u63	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to touch briefly on the point made by Mr Van Raak and Mr Bishop about the timing of this second reading. But before I do that, I would like to go through the various questions of the political groups briefly to make sure that I have answered them all. Mrs Özütok asked me a number of questions about the follow-up and the initiative that the Chamber could take. I think I answered that. A question from Mrs Özütok which is still open, and which I believe was also put by Mr Koopmans, at least in the written submission, is whether there could be a difference between the way the King's Commissioner was appointed and that of the mayor. That seems to me to be a very fair question, which we should therefore include in the wider debate. When I look at the developments on both levels of government, I understand that both groups have these questions. Mr Bosma has asked me a number of questions about the future scenarios: where do I want to go? I think that we have had a sufficient exchange of views on this matter just now. Mr Bosma still has doubts about that, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u64	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u65	No? Okay, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u66	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u67	Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u68	I don't know if you'd finished with me, but I also asked another question. It was about the fact that D66, by the mouth of the present minister Ollongren, Miss Ollongren, stated that Amsterdam should become a republic if my party were to win the elections. This shows that D66 is an organisation against our rule of law and against our Constitution. Because apparently an election victory by my party according to D66 does not enjoy democratic legitimacy. That's quite a statement, especially when such a person becomes a minister. That verdict was made one year and one week ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u69	This discussion, too, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u70	No, we haven't had this discussion at all. If we get an elected mayor, as D66 wants, and one or more PVVs win the election and become mayor, what about the democratic legitimacy of those PVV mayors according to D66? Do they have to leave the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mr Bosma is now tempting me to look at the future. He asked a specific question. Suppose we have an elected mayor in this country and say that the population elects a member of the PVV mayor. Does that congregation have to come out of the Kingdom? My answer to that is simply: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u72	Well, that's already a win. That is more than we expect from D66, because Miss Ollongren has stated that Amsterdam must leave the Kingdom when the PVV comes to power. Mr Jetten thus distanced himself from the Minister's statement. It was also a statement from the minister as a minister, so it was also a statement from the cabinet. So let's say it's a win for tonight. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u74	I think I have answered Mr Bishop's questions as well. Mr Bishop also gave us some important elements for a possible future discussion on changes in the way of appointment. He mentioned, among other things, the consequences it would have if the mayorship were to become a more political office than is currently the case. I agree with Mr Bishop; we have to take that into account. I think I have also answered Mr Koopmans' questions. Mr Koopmans stressed that it is important that the mayor and the King's Commissioner should still be mentioned in the Constitution following this constitutional change. I'd like to join that. I think those two functions belong there. Mr Van Raak actually called on the Chamber to discuss possible changes in the way of appointment at a later date. I fully agree with him that we have a better, clearer legal discussion with this bill than a few years ago, when Mr Van Raak was allowed to participate as a senator in the debate on a similar proposal. Mr Van Raak also asked me to reflect on the suggestion that this bill we are discussing tonight is a trade-off with the agreements on the referendum made in the coalition agreement. That is not the case. The sentence quoted by Mr Van Raak himself may be continued, in my view, with regard to the amendment of the constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u75	So no side letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u76	No side letters. Mr Van der Molen also asked me whether we should be able to look at the mayor and the King's Commissioner separately. I think we should definitely be able to do that. Finally, there was a fervent plea by Mr Hiddema for a directly elected mayor. We can also take that into account in the wider discussion. I welcome the support of the Democracy Forum for this constitutional change. Finally, comments were made by Mr Van Raak and Mr Bisschop on the time at which this second reading was initiated. I would like to make a brief comment on that. We have agreed in this country that if we change the constitution at second reading, we must act in a hurry to prevent the next Chamber from discussing the second reading before further elections. The fact that we are here today with this Chamber means, in my view, that this objective has been achieved. But we also have a discussion with each other as to whether there should be an obligation to put forward a proposal immediately on the day of the dissolution of the Chamber and to submit a further report immediately after the installation of the new Chamber, accompanied by an opinion from the Council of State. I would like to continue this discussion with all the political groups in this Chamber, particularly in view of the recent information provided by the Council of State on this issue. I think we should do justice to that important discussion. I would like to do this at another time with all the political groups, but I say here on behalf of the D66 Group that we have taken the opinion of the Council of State very carefully and that I agree with everyone who has said here tonight that we need to look more closely at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u77	Happily, except for the fact that I saw this opinion from the Council of State, I believe the third opinion is a bit like the end of the discussion. I do not think we need to discuss it so much anymore, because it is now clear. It needs to be done as soon as possible, preferably on the first day. I would also like to know what the Minister will have to say about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u78	I think that we need to talk more closely about the practical implementation of the opinion so that we can have it properly in the future. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. As I have argued a number of times, we are discussing here tonight a constitutional change that is nothing more and nothing less than removing from the Constitution the method of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner. I hope I have answered all the questions of the Chamber sufficiently. I would like to thank all the groups for their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u79	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the government at this second reading of the D66 initiative proposal, now defended by Mr Jetten, on the deconstitutionalisation of the method of appointment. I would like to express a word of appreciation to the initiator, Mr Schouw. He is indeed here; very special. It was his proposal that was already adopted by a large majority by your Chamber in 2015. I also welcome Mr Jetten who has taken over from him and has so far been very successful in doing so. We are dealing with a state-law question. Many have said that for me. This is actually about the division of labour. We are now gathered here as a constitutionalist. It is a question of what is the task for the constitutionalist and for the legislator. Is the method of appointment such that the Constitution has to determine it or can it be left to the legislator? Mr Jetten has just reminded a number of Members that this has a very long history. It goes back to the year 1848, the revolution year 1848 and the State Commission-Thorbecke. In order to secure the King's right to be appointed, it was incorporated into the Constitution that the President of the Council was called "That's what it was then and therefore not the mayor "The King" was appointed by the King. But we know that Thorbecke himself felt that the Constitution should only contain the main principles of local government and that it was up to the organic legislator. This should shape the establishment of local administration in accordance with those basic principles of the Constitution. Thorbecke was therefore opposed to the inclusion of the crown appointment in the Constitution. Many of his words have been quoted: "It is unreasonable that the Constitution should advance a single piece of a system, which it awaits from the legislator." He therefore did not object to the crown appointment as such, but he objected to any departure from what he intended: the division of tasks between the legislature and the legislature, in which determining the method of appointment should be a matter for the legislature. By including it in the Constitution, an advance was actually made on the establishment of the municipal system and the legislator's freedom to set up and change that system was unnecessarily limited in Thorbecke's eyes. That was history and there is Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u81	The question to the Minister is: if it is true of the mayor and the Commissioner, why not the head of state? The argument used by the Minister for the Mayor and the Commissioner should apply to the Head of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u82	I can imagine that Mr Van Raak could put forward good arguments for this, but one can also argue that the Constitution sees the establishment of the national government and all the important bodies involved, and that the establishment of the other authorities, i.e. the provinces and the municipalities, left room for the legislator to set up those levels in Thorbecke's house. This reasoning fits in with the fact that the head of state belongs in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u83	The head of state should be part of it. Now it's just about the way in which you're appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u85	So the head of state belongs in it, like the Commissioner and the mayor, but today we are talking about the method of appointment. If it doesn't include the mayor's appointment and the commissioner's appointment, then I don't understand why the King's appointment is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u86	That is a question that Mr Van Raak is asking himself and which he himself could answer. In other words, he understands it very well. By the way, I don't think it was such a point in 1848. I also think Thorbecke would very much agree. Then where we are now. The government agrees with the initiator that the appointment of the mayor is not of constitutional order but should be left to the legislator. It is therefore not part of the organisation of the main state institutions. He does not touch fundamental rights and duties of citizens in our country. The government's view is not new. It's an issue with a long history. In the explanatory memorandum and in the opinion of the Council of State, it was written in detail about this. State committees, which have just been mentioned, have also declared themselves in favour of deconstitutionalisation. I would like to say to Mr Jetten that the present initiative proposal does not prejudge at all and should not prejudice the way in which it is appointed. It is only about the question of the division of labour between the constitutionalist and the legislator. Should changes be considered in the future, it should not be primarily and exclusively about the method of appointment, but also about the role and position of the mayor in the municipal system, about the relationship to the council, about the college and the aldermen and, of course, about the independent powers. The method of appointment cannot therefore be seen entirely in isolation from the establishment of local government in relation to the Empire and the Province. My predecessor sent a number of notes to your Chamber in 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u87	Now I get the feeling that the Minister of our Members of Parliament is asking for a high degree of naivety to believe that this whole action was only set up for constitutional reasons and not for the premeditated purpose of starting the debate on the election and appointment of the mayor. It's not real to put that cut on, is it? I have also spoken about this with Mr van GroenLinks in an interruption. That's not a real picture of things, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u88	I want to say two things about it. First of all, it's very pure to do it this way. I thought it might appeal to Mr Bishop to distinguish between the role we have as a constitutionalist and the other legislative role. The second argument is about the order of things. Suppose this step is taken and an agreement is reached on this initiative proposal in this Chamber and the First Chamber, and the Constitution is amended on this point. This creates room for change, but that does not mean that there will be a change, because that is another choice that the legislator has to make. The legislator can also leave everything as it is. That has happened before, and I think Mr Bishop knows that very well. The Presidency of the Council was in the Constitution, has been removed from the Constitution, but has not been changed. It therefore creates room for the legislator to change something, but it has not been said that the legislator is going to do so. That is why I think it is purely a matter of restricting it now to what it is about, the de-constitutionalisation. The next question, if any, is a question for the legislator. But that question can only happen when this bill has been passed, and not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u89	That is, of course, formally correct, but I am concerned about the intention. I would appreciate it if the initiator and also the cabinet would say here: what are we in favour of this initiative proposal? If that is to have the debate afterwards on how to appoint the mayor or appoint the King's Commissioner, say it out loud. But let us not believe, do not suppose that we can believe in the simplicity that this is just about deconstitutionalisation. No, this is also about the sequel. Be clear about that. I think that's an honest approach. Let's not pretend to cut it with scissors in the vein of "whether we do it or not, we'll see." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would like to challenge the Minister and also the initiator to be clear and clear about this. I think that makes the discussion more transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u90	I am very much in favour of clarity and clarity. I have actually heard everyone who has spoken here today say what would be the preferred course from his or her party political point of view. One has a very clear task in it, for example because it is part of an election programme. The other says: I see different options and I'm not really ready to make a choice. I respect both. But from the point of view of my role as Minister, I think that I should be very careful and very clear about this. If the Constitutionalist finds that this current power is over, it is not appropriate for that same constitutionalist to anticipate the way in which the legislator may exercise that new power. That is why I put it very carefully. We are gathered here today on this issue. Everyone may or may not express their views on wishes in the future. But these wishes can only be realised when this constitutional change is a fact. And then the legislator should consider it. And not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u91	Mr Bishop, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u92	Finally, Mr President. I'm gonna try again anyway. This procedural process, this line of thinking, I can follow, but it concerns me the underlying, underlying intention. And it's twilighted all over the place. You can just point it out. My objection is that the Minister is also doing a bit concealing the question of whether that is the case. No, that's just the case. My appeal to the Minister is: just say that. Just say that the cabinet, the initiator, then wants to start a discussion about how the mayor, the king's commissioner, takes office. I think that's clear. You shouldn't pretend that's not certain. Of course, this is going to be a discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u93	Again, I truly cast myself that there is something concealing to what I say. I'm trying to operate on this very carefully. I said that if the constitutional change continues, there will be room for change. But whether that change will happen depends on the legislator. And then there are different paths to walk. Perhaps I will be able to clarify something in the answer to the questions in the direction of Mr Bishop. It is my intention now to answer the specific questions. First, questions on the follow-up, then a few questions on current practice and finally a number of questions on the constitutional review procedure. Mrs Özütok, Mrs Kuik and others have asked for the follow-up. I have just argued why I, like the initiator, do not want to anticipate what might happen after this initiative proposal has been examined. After all, today is just that question and not another one. I do not need to repeat the reasoning I have just given in reply to Mr Bishop's question. Mrs Kuik also asked very specifically what the minister's role is. I don't see Mrs. Chicken, but I'm happy to answer her question. What is the role of the Minister and how are the Chambers and other levels of government taken into account? Recalling that I do not want to anticipate the follow-up, it is, of course, true that a change in the method of appointment affects the whole legal system. This should then be considered in conjunction. This must be done carefully, and the Minister for the Interior is responsible for the proper organisation of the administrative system as a whole and is responsible in particular for this organic legislation. So if it comes to a follow-up, this should be done in consultation with the Chamber and with the local authorities. On the part of the CDA, it was also asked about any intentions for a more in-depth investigation. That group, too, stressed the need for care. I'm happy to do that, too. There are two notes from Minister Plasterk, a note on possible variants from 2015 and a reflection on the role and position of the mayor from 2016. Both have not yet been dealt with in the Chamber, as Mr Jetten has just explained. It is with care that all these steps are taken and that these documents are also dealt with in the Chamber. If that treatment shows that there are still additional wishes, then of course that can always be done. As far as I am concerned, it should not happen until it has been carefully discussed with the Chamber. Mr Bishop just said it, but the question was also asked in the first term: why this intention if there are no plans for change? As far as I am concerned, it happens in this order and not the other way around. It would be really impure if the legislator were to anticipate the amendment of the Constitution. That's the short variant of my long answer from just now. There were some questions about what it's like now. I would like to start with Mr Bosma, who, by the way, is still very pre-emptive with the New Year's reception of a year ago. That's something that really triggers me, because there's another New Year's reception next Saturday. I hadn't figured out what I'm gonna say there, but maybe he inspired me. I would like to say in his direction, and also in the direction of Mr Hiddema, that we are truly blessed in this country with expert, independent and impartial mayors. Also in Amsterdam, also in Rotterdam and certainly in Harlingen and Arnhem. They represent the quality and stability of the administration in our country and they are greatly appreciated by me and by many inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u94	That speech at the New Year's reception is, of course, legendary. I just read it. He's going all out on my party. That may be true, but it is an attack on democracy, an attack on the rule of law and an attack on the Constitution. It's all good. Anyway, that mayor. I mentioned the mayor of Rotterdam. He recently declared himself a salafist. That's a big deal. This Minister is also the Minister of AIVD. If you read the AIVD's annual reports or you're on a job visit and you follow what the AIVD is doing, you know that it warns loudly against salifism. Now the mayor of one of the most important cities of the Netherlands simply says that he is a salafist. Then you can't keep repeating that the mayors are all so impartial? At least one of them isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u95	I have a bit of a feeling that we are not getting to the heart of the debate with this question, but of course I am happy to answer it. The Mayor of Rotterdam has held a wide-ranging debate on this subject with his council. Again, we are blessed in this country with independent and high-quality mayors. As far as I'm concerned, they're allowed to walk. They may interfere in the public debate. If there are any questions about that, the mayor should answer them in his own council. That's what the mayor of Rotterdam did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u96	He can express himself, you know. Very well, but if the minister says the mayor is so independent, then the minister has to explain to me how a salafist can be independent for heaven's sake. A minister explains to me how a mayor can be a salafist! The mayor of Rotterdam describes himself as a salafist in 2018. Then you can't say: oh, there's nothing wrong; they're all so impartial? How the hell can a salafist be impartial?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u97	The mayor of Rotterdam has explained this once and again. I don't want to repeat that for him here. But once again, I think that mayors can simply speak out on many social issues. Mrs Özütok asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u98	Before you continue, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u99	Let me give you a more detailed assessment for the Minister himself. I hear the Minister say that the mayors in question enjoy the full confidence of the citizens. In the list, I have confined myself mainly to mayors whose functions have never been investigated in relation to people's trust. I do not know how that finding can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u100	I have mentioned four cities, one of which I have been alderman for three and a half years. In the Netherlands, mayors are highly appreciated. They are of all the drivers, I think, perhaps in the highest regard. And the same goes for the mayors in the cities you mentioned. Mr. Chairman. Ms Özütok asked about the current appointment procedure. She also asked whether there could perhaps be more openness in the procedure as it currently exists. The procedure is, of course, contained in the Municipal Law, as she knows. It also includes the protection of the privacy of candidates. In a way, you could say that this procedure does not differ from other application procedures in the business or public sector. But it is also important, of course, that the members of the council can vote freely for a candidate without their vote being known. This guarantees that the relations between the council and the mayor will not be burdened with this. I therefore believe that the current procedure is working well in this respect. I think it's hard to change that without compromising that balance. Mr Van Raak said on the same subject: can we not codify the current practice? Well, the current practice is that the board actually has a decisive vote. We don't have to change the law for that. We don't have to codify anything for that either. The current practice is, of course, also that the Crown has the possibility to intervene on the basis of serious grounds, for example if the screening of the Tax Administration or the AIVD reveals something that leads to a different assessment. That, I think, is of vital importance. If it doesn't happen, that really only means that the procedure is very good. But the possibility is, of course, there. So that's the practice. You don't have to change the law for that. This is actually the way it has been since the law has been amended on that point. Then that age discharge at 70 years. That's an interesting one, of course. It is functional age discharge which follows from the legal status decision for mayors. Indeed, it does not apply to acting mayors, because they are by definition temporary. They are therefore subject to different requirements or less requirements. I would not mind looking again at the age limit for mayors. It is only the case that there is a broader context, because there are also other ministers to whom the same age limit applies, for example members of the Council of State. So I see it in the context of a broader discussion. How do we generally want to deal with this type of age limit? But in itself, I would like to look at the possibilities for this at a time when we believe that people can work longer and there are people who want to work longer themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u101	How far have you come with your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u102	I have a few more questions. I thought all I had left was the question of the constitutional review procedure. Mr Bishop asked for that. He pointed out that the Council of State had repeatedly stressed the importance of the second reading of a draft Constitution being dealt with as soon as possible after the meeting of the new House of Representatives. Then it is indeed important that the proposal should be submitted, preferably on the day on which the Chamber meets for the first time. In informing the Advisory Section of the Council of State in September, the Section makes a number of recommendations to your Chamber. I am not judging on these recommendations, but I am looking forward to the discussion with your Chamber. Apart from that, at the request of Mr Bishop, I would like to undertake to look again at the constitutional review procedure and at Article 137, to which Mr Bishop referred. Perhaps I will look not only at the time of submission, but also at the timely conclusion of proposals at first reading. This point is also mentioned by the Council of State. Mr Van Raak also made a comment on this particular proposal; I believe that Mr Jetten has already answered it. His point was, in fact, whether or not this proposal was brought forward on time. As I said, I share with the Chamber, Mr Van Raak and the Council of State that it is important that the proposal for a second reading is submitted in good time. The appointment was made as soon as possible after the decision to dissolve the Lower House. The initiator referred to a letter from my predecessor. From that letter, he deduced that the time of filing or bringing an action was within the terms of the agreements made with the Government. From the fact that your Chamber has initiated the examination of the proposal, I would point out that the time of filing in this case did not ultimately constitute an obstacle. Having said that, I will come back to my first point: I think it is important to do so as soon as possible, preferably just on the first day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u103	Was it lucky that the letter was sent? The Ministry has sent a letter with a different date than the first day of meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u104	I understand that this letter was intended to ensure that the proposal was brought before second reading as soon as possible. In that sense, the letter at least had the effect that I believe it happened as soon as possible after that on 4 May last year. Finally, I would like to comment on a comment by Mr Van Raak on the arrangements made at the formation. He knows I wasn't there, but I didn't get any side letters. I didn't find any footnotes or fine prints. The whole coalition agreement consists of substantive, negotiated compromises and not trade-outs, so I can assure him that this is not the case. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u105	Thank you. Is there a need for a second term? Only with Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u106	Mr President, I will be brief, because I do not want to keep my colleagues away from their other evening activities. I would like to thank the author and the Minister very much for answering the questions, and I shall do so on behalf of all my colleagues. I would also like to thank the support for the contribution to an orderly examination of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u107	Are you going to close the meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u108	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But it is not possible for a colleague here to defend his own initiative proposal with fire, that a minister went after it with enthusiasm and assisted him in that way, but that does not give him a thank you from the Chamber itself! So I've just taken on the guilty duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u109	I'll give you all the time you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u110	Besides, I have a minute and six seconds left. But I mean that. That's just part of it. It may be a ritual, but it's just supposed to be. I'm doing the same thing sincerely. Only the answers didn't convince me. Of course, you would have hoped that for a while, but that is not the case. We shall therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. I'm gonna go check around and see if anyone else wants to say anything. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-12.u112	This brings us to the end of the examination of this initiative proposal. Before I close, I would like to thank the initiators, Mr Schouw, who is also the former initiator. I know how much work working on a legislative proposal for a Member of Parliament entails. That is quite different from that of a minister or secretary of state who has a device at his disposal. So I would like to thank Mr Schouw in particular, but also Mr Jetten as a new Member of Parliament for defending this legislative initiative and, of course, for supporting Mr Carsten Zwaaneveld and someone else who has participated in it. We will be voting on the proposal next Tuesday. I wish you every success, even in the defense in the First Chamber if it is adopted by the Second Chamber.
