ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr Van Beek. I ask the Members to stand up. On 26 August last, Martin van Beek, Senator for the Party for Freedom, died at the age of 58. He was a member of the First Chamber from 2 October 2012 to 9 June 2015 and from 28 March 2017 at two intervals due to illness, until his death last summer. Marinus Jan van Beek was born on 1 April 1960 in Ridderkerk. His father was a teacher and his mother's housewife. After primary school Mr. Van Beek first went to the Mavo and then to the Havo. After his final exam, he followed the framework training care. In this context, he was a nurse at a psychiatric hospital in The Hague. He became subsequent unit head geriatric patients. From 1981 to 1987, Mr Van Beek worked as a safety and security officer at a British-Dutch multinational. As assistant secretary to a national representative of companies engaged in mobility, he gained four years of experience in lobbying and administrative relations. In 1991 he was a sales manager involved in the introduction of a mountain bike brand in the Benelux. He then became a sales manager for SRAM, an American manufacturer of bicycle parts, Europe. After four years he became general manager of Europe for SRAM. He was supposed to stay that way until 2008. After this he started a career as an independent entrepreneur and trainer. He also volunteered at Humanitas in debt relief and supervised and coached young entrepreneurs. In the meantime, Mr Van Beek had started an MBA programme, which he completed in 2009, after studying work and organizational psychology earlier. In 2010, Mr. Van Beek returned to care where he began his working life more than 30 years earlier as owner of C.K. Medical, a medical product company. He was also active as an advisor in commercial business development and as an interim management consultant in healthcare. In 2011 Mr Van Beek became active for the PVV. He was concerned about the Islamisation of the Netherlands, the great role of the European Union and the future of his children and grandchildren. On 2 October 2012, he became a member of the Upper House for the PVV. He became a member of the Committees for Finance, Infrastructure, Environment and Spatial Planning, for Health, Welfare and Sport, and for Economic Affairs. When he joined the First Chamber in 2017, he took part in the committees for Economic Affairs and Climate / Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, for Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation, for European Affairs and for Finance. Mr Van Beek's concerns about the impact of the European Union on the Netherlands were also reflected in his maiden speech. He spoke on 19 March 2013 during the handling of the Crisis and Recovery Act, among other things, about the European crisis. According to Mr Van Beek, it was "especially Europe's crisis through an increasing number of Europeans." Mr Van Beek, as a champion of the strong position of SMEs, argued on several occasions during debates in favour of reducing corporate burdens and countering unfair competition from foreign companies through European subsidies. In his spare time Mr Van Beek was an active cyclist and runner. According to his group chairman, Mrs Faber, he was sometimes very impetuous and made the necessary smacks. Ms Faber described him as "a very friendly, helpful and kind colleague who did his work in the Upper Chamber modestly and quietly." Mr Van Beek himself said that he "does not need to be in the spotlight himself in order to get satisfaction out of the work." In his social and political life, Mr Van Beek, in his own words, was "a hard worker who stood for his opinion." He believed in the power of people and that it is everyone's responsibility to shape life according to his own ability. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to support his wife, children, further family and friends. I now give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Ollongren, who will speak on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-5.u2	On 9 September 2014, the victims of the MH17 disaster were commemorated at this site. In particular, Senator Willem Witteveen was commemorated. Immediately afterwards, a debate began on the programmatic approach to nitrogen, in which Martin van Beek also spoke. He said: "After the emotional remembrance of Mr Witteveen, among others, it is hard for me to move to the order of the day, but we will have to do so, for everyone's sake." Due to a sad twist of fate, these words are getting actual value again today. Because today we commemorate Senator Martin van Beek, who was killed last summer in a fatal accident. He wasn't a man of big words or long speeches, not a politician who made the paper every week. He preferred to operate in the background. His strength was that he could look at subjects from different perspectives. His contributions to the debate in this Chamber were always substantive and very well prepared. He also sought that floor, witnessing the fact that he completed an MBA in 2009, his second academic study. At the same time, he did not deny his background in the business world, in recent years as an independent entrepreneur and for a long time as manager of a large manufacturer in bicycle parts. This personal background was reflected, for example, in his contribution to the debate in this house on the lifting of the then existing public-law business organisations in December 2014. In that debate, he strongly advocated free enterprise without new obligations or forced payments. In addition, Mr Van Beek knew the concern from the inside. He was an academicly trained psychologist, during the first years of his working life he was a caregiver and manager in geriatric care, and at a later stage he worked as an independent consultant again in the care sector. Thus he stood with both legs in the society, which he served as a popular representative with full conviction. Madam President. When someone is so suddenly and humanly taken out of life far too early, the loss is particularly severe. Your Chamber has lost a valued member in Martin van Beek, a man known in this house as modest, friendly and quiet. But above all, Martin van Beek was the husband and father of three children. Because of his family, he'll be missed the most. On behalf of the government, I wish his wife, the children and other relatives much strength in dealing with this great loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-5.u3	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her presence and suspend the sitting for a brief moment.
