ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	Colleagues, the next item is the 30-member debate on the decline in the insect population in the Netherlands. I welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and, of course, the Members who will be speaking. This is a 30-member debate. That means that I will keep you all strictly to the speaking time of up to three minutes. It also means that I would ask you to moderate yourself as far as this is concerned when it comes to interruptions. If I find that there are still far too many of them, then I am going to make a comment about that and then we are going to act on things. But for now, I shall first give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. At the end of last year, the news came out that large-scale, long-term research in Germany has shown that three quarters of the insect population has disappeared in less than 30 years. You could say that this is a stand-alone message, but then the report on the ammonia deposition in the Netherlands followed that the approach fails and that biodiversity suffers from this too. What has happened is that the movement that has been active for a very long time in the Netherlands and which points out that the way in which Dutch agriculture has been set up may have brought us a lot shortly after the Second World War but that we have now drifted away from the optimum with that intensive system and that it now has many more disadvantages, especially for maintaining crucial ecosystem services for humans and for agriculture, and that it is therefore time for a radical reform of agricultural policy. That is what this debate is about. Just now, in another little debate, the Minister said that the Animal Party might have been a little late in tightening up an action programme aimed at protecting groundwater quality. I'll take that as an invitation. There's still research going on. The Minister said: we are going to look at the situation in the Netherlands with regard to the decline, the mortality of insects. Work is under way on a delta plan of biodiversity. But in this debate we think it is time to give the direction that the Minister should take. So the question is: has she, has her ministry, listened well to the round table that has been organised? There was little news for the Animal Party, but it is very good that it happened, because there were ecologists, scientists, agricultural experts, all saying: if we stick to that industrial and intensive agriculture, then we are not going to achieve the goals. Not for soil, not for water, not for biodiversity, name them all. In July of last year we received a letter from the then cabinet, from Secretary of State Van Dam, about the scenarios we could follow for switching to nature-inclusive agriculture. Beautiful scenarios have been developed there and also distinguish good levels of ambition that you could choose. That letter said: I'm not going to do it anymore, that's up to the next cabinet. The question to this minister is, with her promises that she will look at an integrated approach to the problems that agriculture faces: what level of ambition will she choose to switch to nature-inclusive agriculture? What approach is she going to take and what planning can we expect from her? And what about the implementation of the motions adopted to at least advocate in Europe a total ban on the use of that super-dangerous agricultural poison, all neonicotinoids? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand, neatly within the time! Mr De Groot, from D66, I will take that challenge with you, up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Last week Jan Terlouw spoke in De Wereld Duart Door and he said: The greatest danger that threatens humanity is the way we deal with our nature, with the rainforests, with the oceans, but also in the Netherlands. 80% of the bugs are gone. Who knows what that's gonna mean? How do we fix it? And he said, "Police must do it." And here we are, here we are. We now have a chance to turn the tide. D66 initiated a hearing together with the ChristenUnion and GroenLinks and we reached the top of Dutch science, a broad group, to the Chamber. They presented a story of fact that no one in this Chamber can go around. In other words, nature in the agricultural area is still deteriorating as a result of the intensive use of the land. It is therefore to be commended that our food producers have joined a broad movement to stop the decline in our biodiversity. But that's not what we're here for. As politicians, we make choices every day that affect biodiversity. Let me give you a few random examples. The debate is too short to do so in detail, but I would like to give a few examples in which we say one thing and do the other. Madam Secretary of State says that we are working on integrated plant protection, but on the other hand we are allowing the spraying of grassland with fertilizers. I can't rhyme with it. We publish a National Bee Strategies, but the elephant in the room is not mentioned: the mosquito on the window........................................................................................................................................ The same Bee Strategies contain fine words about co-friendly agricultural production in the new common agricultural policy, but I do not read anything about this in the BNC sheet. Mr. Chairman. How slow are we learning? In 2013, the "honey approach' came to fruition. In 2018, five years later, the wild bees. Do we have to wait another five years for a strategy for the insects? Why don't we take it completely? The decline of meadow birds is also about insects. Young birds eat insects and the larger ones eat worms. When the food is gone, the birds disappear. I'm worried about this. I spent my childhood on the Frisian waters and I grew up with the sound of the chickenvit and the grutto. Last summer I was back on the water after a long time and we sailed along the reed collars in the evening. And it was quiet, dead quiet. The sound of the grutto and the kitten was gone. And you won't know what you're missing until it's gone. That is why I say to the Minister: insects do not live on beautiful words and birds only sing results, your results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. I don't see Mr. Grashoff. Oh, yeah, in the back of the room. He shall speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. Insects are not what you call the most cuddly species, but they are one of the most crucial species, as an indispensable link in our entire ecosystem. There was therefore a shock when it became clear that what we were actually afraid of, because we noticed it for years, of course, also happened: the insect population has shrunk very far. Although it was German research, the conclusions are also one-on-one valid for the Netherlands. There was the necessary commotion about it. Fortunately, it also led to social initiative. Nature and environmental organisations and a number of scientists joined forces, made Driebergen's statement and started a process of achieving a biodiversity recovery plan. Fantastic; the sector solves it! Or does the Minister perhaps agree with me that the sector cannot resolve it if the government is left behind? That's my question. Mr. Chairman. We have also taken the initiative here in the Chamber. Together with D66 and the Christian Union, we have brought a number of scientists here. In particular, we have asked them whether it is indeed so serious and what the causes are. It was so serious. And what caused it? That is a bit of an uncomfortable truth for part of this Chamber: that is essentially our agricultural practice. In the sixties to the eighties of the last century, where industry played an important role in the destruction of nature, on which we have taken enormous action over the years, we now have to say that it is really the agricultural practice that is applied at 55% to 60% of our surface area in a way that runs counter to the conservation of biodiversity. If we want to stop this decline, then the choices will really have to be made here, including fundamental choices. That's getting out of the frame of the everlasting increase in production. I ask the Minister whether she agrees with me that we should step out of that frame and achieve a truly broad vision of agriculture with a broad optimisation of agriculture, including biodiversity targets. Just continuing on the current road is not an option. It can't be that we make a plan together for bees or make a plan for insects or whatever, no, you really have to look at this integrally. Otherwise, it's not gonna work. "Integral" is always a beautiful word. It is the best word to move something forward, because "integral" always takes more time to figure it out. And we only have that time to a limited extent. My question to the Minister is: what is she going to do, of course, in cooperation with the whole sector and with everything and everyone who knows about it? How integral is she going to do that? Is she willing to avoid sacred cottages as well? For example, I call the sacred cottage of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. It can't survive if you want to solve this problem seriously. That's gonna have to change. Will the Minister answer that? Is it prepared to go really deep when it comes to restoring biodiversity and addressing a number of fundamental issues that are the problem that we need to resolve together? Because humans too are ultimately part of the ecosystem and completely dependent on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Mr. Grashoff. Now to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Bees and pollinators are declining in numbers and species worldwide and also in the Netherlands. This decline in insects is very worrying because of the degradation of our ecosystem. This ultimately threatens our food production, nature and also humanity. I've got some numbers. 75% of our food crops depend on pollination. Insects also make the difference for crop yields. 18% to 68% of the yield of apples and strawberries depends on pollinating insects. The richness and structure of soil are also important for food production and biodiversity. In short, it's really all hands on deck. We must, of course, protect and preserve our capital. This urgency also appeared during the round table biodiversity, which I organised together with colleagues from GroenLinks and D66. Mr. Chairman. The survey in Germany last autumn revealed a 75% decline in flying insects. The PBL reports that the results cannot be translated into the Netherlands one-on-one. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister is doing more research. There are other initiatives. The Minister, together with civil society organisations, business, knowledge institutions and governments, presented the National Bee Strategies. Special attention is now being paid to wild bees species. Another hopeful initiative is the delta approach to biodiversity. This Chamber has adopted a motion from me, co-signed by colleagues from GroenLinks and D66, calling on the Cabinet to actively support this strategy, this delta approach. I have some questions for the Minister. First of all, measuring is knowing. I noticed that we hardly measure the species trend in insects. I understand that in the Ecological Monitoring Network there are only two insects that are monitored for a long time: dragonflies and butterflies. Does the Minister intend to extend this? Then there's my second question. It is clear that a considerable effort can be expected from Dutch agriculture. Agricultural nature and landscape management runs through the provinces. How successful is this, anyway? How can we continue to support collectives of farmers and gardeners? I think there is also a great challenge for the new European agricultural policy. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to a bee- and insect-friendly common agricultural policy? I mentioned the National Bee Strategies for a while. It focuses, inter alia, on the sustainability of plant protection products. The Minister made it clear in the debate on satsumas that she is committed to the rapid availability of more green plant protection products. What is the state of play? Finally, Mr President. There is a lot of talk about agriculture, and it is certainly a move. But measures outside agriculture are also needed and possible. I think there's a quick profit to be made in insect-friendly berm management. I know that this issue is already on the agenda for ProRail and Rijkswaterstaat, but there may still be a profit to be gained in the implementation. Will the Minister discuss this with her colleague on Infrastructure and Water State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand would like to ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u10	Once with the last call. Agriculture is important and anything that has an effect outside must be done as well. We have had an impact from the previous cabinet on the possibilities of switching to nature-inclusive agriculture. A few scenarios have been outlined, and that cabinet said: that choice must be made by the next government, and we are not going to do that anymore. My question is what the Christian Union would like to focus on, if we could choose between "supporting the Empire," "the Empire actively steers" and "the Empire takes the lead," in which, in line with what we have heard in the hearing, really the best steps can be taken to allow agriculture to operate in cooperation with nature rather than being faced with each other now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u11	That all went really fast. It was about nature-inclusive agriculture, the role of the government, the role of the sector and a number of questions. The last question concerned, in particular, the position of nature and the position of agriculture, which are opposed to each other. I've noticed that, too. I'm not okay with that. I see that there is a minister here who has the objective of connecting the two. I think that's very much needed. These sectors are indeed opposed to each other, whereas agriculture needs nature to continue to produce. I started my story by telling you that we need the bees and pollinators for our food production. That connection is very much needed. Of course there is a role for the government and there is also a role for the sector, but I do think that we should do this together with the farmers. I see that's what they want. It's not for nothing that they sit at the table when it comes to the delta plan biodiversity. They're picking up the glove. Let's encourage them, let's encourage them, but we'll do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u12	If you're asking a follow-up question, please be brief. I would also ask the speaker to reply briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u13	I understand Mrs Dik-Faber half. On the one hand, she says: the Minister has a responsibility to bring these parties together. Does this mean that she says: the minister really has the direction here, or else we won't get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u14	I am a little reluctant to answer this question with a yes or no. Then what's your directional role and how are you going to fill it out? If that means that the minister has to do what the Party wants for the Animals, then I say, no, I'm not standing for that. My group, the Christian Union, wants things to change. Things are changing, too, right now. It is not for nothing that our farmers sit at the table with nature organisations to talk about the delta plan biodiversity. I want to fully support that. This Chamber, with the support of the Animal Party, has adopted a motion on this subject. Let us strongly support that process. Let's go through that road. That is the path I stand for and not the Party's plans for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u15	I found Mrs Dik-Faber's story extremely clear and extremely sharp, even when it comes to the importance of the insect population. It also approaches the role of agriculture in this. Does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me that this really is a rather fundamental approach to agriculture, where in any case the prevailing doctrine of post-war production increase, increase in production and increase in production is precisely the crucial point that we should get rid of together and that we should find a new balance between actual agricultural production and the preservation of diversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u16	I also find this question rather difficult to answer. Indeed, I see that our farmers are in an economic system of increasing production at ever lower cost prices, which ultimately puts pressure on their earning model. I'm getting that back now, including from the sector. We've been to the Grüne Woche recently. I have talked about it with people from the sector, but also with people from education to see what it is like in education. How are our young farmers trained? I think that education offers a lot of opportunities to bring about what we are talking about today, so to speak, this'sustainable agriculture', in our country. Many call it nature-inclusive agriculture, but I prefer to call it sustainable agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u17	This is the answer now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u18	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm sure Mr Grashoff has another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr Grashoff has the opportunity for a brief follow-up question. That is the essence of a follow-up question. Then you will be able to reply briefly. Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u20	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber looking for the words. In any case, if I understand her correctly, she recognises the tension between increasing production and maintaining biodiversity. We can, of course, talk about where exactly you put that balance. If I understood correctly, that will undoubtedly be confirmed. I have to say that Mrs Dik-Faber is in favour of the economic model, the model of farmers' incomes. Quite rightly, if you want to change incentives, we will have to do something about them. But does she agree with me that it can't be that for the sake of that earning model we leave everything to the old?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u21	Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u22	It is not for nothing that I have also asked the Minister about the new European agricultural policy. The new European agricultural policy will also have to take account of social challenges faced by farmers. A social task is of course food production, but it is also about nature, about biodiversity, about climate change, about a healthy soil, also for farmers. That is what the new CAP needs to see and, Mr President, for I was actually just looking for words. Production increase must always be in balance with the living environment. I cannot say that there will never again be an increase in production. If that can be balanced with the living environment, so be it. I mean, we live in a delta, we live in a fertile country. I see the tension field, but to say in advance that it is never possible because it is bad in itself, I do not want to go that far. It has to be balanced with the living environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u23	And that's what we're gonna do for now, because we're gonna move on to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr. Chairman. The world and the Netherlands are changing rapidly: much more prosperity, much less hunger, but also the effect of man on our environment. The CDA wants us to live with our environment, and everyone has a responsibility in it. But the studies on insects show a trend of decline. In Germany, flying insects have been caught in different places over a period of 27 years. The criticism of this research is that due to the systematics used, no trend can actually be derived from this, because several points have been measured. However, the other study from 2014 also points to fewer insects, although it will be different for each species. This way dragonflies in the Netherlands improve the weather. In the media, agriculture is the culprit, but we all see the growing urbanisation, the decline in agricultural land and more industrial sites. So more knowledge is needed. That is why I have five questions for the Minister on this point. When does the Minister expect to be able to inform the Chamber about the compilation of Dutch data on insects? Does this compilation also reveal what knowledge we do not have about the populations of insects? Is there a distinction between insects, such as in the ground, on the ground and flying? Is there a distinction to the area where these insects occur? And my final question on this point: is the compilation of knowledge also going to say something about the possible causes of the decline of the different types of insects? Mr. Chairman. The CDA supports the Minister that, given the evidence available, we need to take joint action. Good to see there's a National Bee Strategies now. A plume for the 40 parties who want to work on this. I also read that less use of fertilizer contributes to insect populations. The question is: is that so, Minister? And the follow-up question: in the short term, should we not allow more fertiliser substitutes based on animal manure in biodiversity pilots? Mr. Chairman. Last weekend it came out that a Brabant deputy had a report on the nitrogen emissions of the industrial sector in Brabant apparently for a long time, without informing the Brabant states. The question I have is: can the Minister indicate what she thinks about various industrial companies operating without the proper permits and that the nitrogen deposition of industry in nature areas is apparently a factor of three, and possibly even a factor of eleven, more than was previously assumed. Mr. Chairman. If this kind of figures on agriculture had come out, this week's agenda would have been different, I imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. Mr. Graus, are you ready? You too have three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Insects are at the beginning of our food cycle and are indispensable not only for humans but also for other animals. It has already been cited by Mr De Groot. It also affects meadow birds and other animals. If the mortality continues as it is now deployed and a little bit apart from the German research, we are here in the Netherlands, so I just stick to what Dutch researchers and scientists say. Let's just be honest about that. We don't need Germany for that at all. Items from bee honey...................................................................................................... You never hear that in the Chamber, but I'm sorry about that. Honey has a pre-, pro- and in some cases even an antibiotic effect. Honey is used to repair burns and scars, rheumatic diseases, allergies, you name it. It's unbelievable. I have a very thick book at home about the medicinal effects of honey. It's a real shame that that's never mentioned here, because it's just indispensable, apart from my love for insects. It was said that insects are not stuffed animals, but I used to hug bumblebees, which are very soft animals. You can cuddle with that, too. It's bullshit to say a bumblebee isn't a stuffed animal. I believe that's what Mr. Grashoff said. The main causes are, in fact, the intensification of agriculture, the use of pesticides and radiation and a certain type of mite, the varroa destructor. In fact, since 2006 I have been working with Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals against Chemical Pesticides, such as neonicotinoids, as a Member of Parliament. The question has already been asked by Mrs Ouwehand to the Minister: what is the situation with regard to the ban which, of course, we have also supported? All these years we have been asking for replacement by non-chemical variants. There's even an approved Graus motion. We have just asked for insects to be used against parasites that destroy crops. You can even use insects to kill parasites. Well, what I'm most proud of is that there's now a bee hotel at the State General, with which we were in favour of France. We're the first parliament to have our own bee hotel. After that several ministries and other government buildings followed, but also beer brewers. Heineken has built a beautiful pollinators garden, but the Alpha Brewery in Schinnen is also going to come with it. Even our king and queen followed the request to cherish and keep bees. We asked for a zero reading. Unfortunately, the motion tabled by me and Mr Madlener was rejected. A zero measurement to preserve primordial Dutch landscapes, flowery fields and bee-friendly beekeeping. How's that going? Because many municipalities do it and many municipalities don't. I would like the Minister to consult with the Association of Dutch Municipalities for the benefit of that bee-friendly bee management, and also that is a motion which has unfortunately been rejected to ensure, together with the same Association of Dutch Municipalities, that no more fees are imposed, specifically on beekeepers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u27	I'm trying to gently wave that you need to wrap up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u28	Sure. I'll say one last word. The bee, the pollinator, is at the beginning of our food cycle. It's an ambassador we need to cherish. I'd like to get a reaction to this. One final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u29	Then really just one sentence, because otherwise you will walk very late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u30	I forgot one question, Mr President. It seems that there is a lot of spread through beekeepers, including those mites. Contaminated species and the trade and import of bee populations are mentioned. What can the Minister do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u31	That is a clear question. The Minister will undoubtedly be able to answer that. Mr. Futselaar, it's your turn to take us into your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. Albert Einstein is attributed the statement that if the bees die out two years later humanity will follow. And as often with that kind of famous quotes, that doesn't make any sense. Albert Einstein never said that and probably humanity can live without bees. It just means that we're gonna make our diet much more limited and have to eat the same thing every day. However, the sentiment behind the quote is correct. Insects are a critical part of our ecosystem and without an ecosystem we cannot live. A major change in the insect population is worrying for two reasons. First, because of the direct consequences, for example for birds dependent on insects for food, but also because a change in the insect population shows that there is a change in the ecosystem. That is perhaps even more worrying, because we cannot yet see the effects of this. In a way, the insects are actually the announcer of much bigger problems. German researchers have seen a 75% decrease in insect biomass since 1989. It is contrary to this that there has been measured in relatively small nature areas, all surrounded by agricultural areas. But this also applies to Dutch nature reserves, because they are almost all relatively small and surrounded by agricultural areas. The researchers in question do not mention a single cause. They wouldn't dare. On the other hand, however, they do identify the two probable causes: climate change and the immediate surroundings of agricultural areas. They call it the agricultural trap. Because of monoculture, pesticides and nitrogen use, the agricultural area has become so insect friendly, so to speak, that they can't really go anywhere from nature reserves. That will have consequences for size. Those who want to see these effects in the Netherlands can look at, for example, the Sallandse Heuvelrug, where the groin with tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of euro's of subsidies is desperately held up, but where groin chicks do not survive because they are dependent on insects and there are not enough in that area anymore. If you're looking for a symbol for this problem, I can recommend it. Mr. Chairman. It is right that there is concern. It is right that, for example, LTO says: agriculture and horticulture have a direct interest in improving biodiversity. What is going on in the sector and the agreements that are being made are to be welcomed. But we can't just wait for the sector. The question is therefore what the Minister will do and what has been done since November. That's when we got the last letter on this. What extra tests have been conducted? What kind of measures are we going to take? Is there any work on a national strategy from the government? How do we ensure that agricultural land becomes more biodiversified? This can be done, for example, by doing something about pesticides and by ensuring that there is no longer so much monoculture, but there are different plants. Reference is made to Brussels, including by several participants. That is fine, and it would be nice if more attention were paid to this in the CAP, but we do not have that in hand. I would therefore like to say: let us not wait for Europe. Finally, Mr President. Let's also look at the robustness of our natural areas and make sure that they are more connected, maybe a little bigger and perhaps a kind of, what shall I call, a kind of ecological main structure. That sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u33	Have you finished your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u35	I shall now give the floor to Mr Graus for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. More and more gardeners are using wasps to tackle parasites. But there may also be insects that can be used against the varroa destructor I have already mentioned. Since I had no more speaking time, I would ask my colleague, Mr Futselaar, if he would be so kind as to put this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u37	I've seen this trick before, Mr. Graus. We are going to hear what Mr Futselaar is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u38	I did not hear a question at all, but I suspect that Mr Graus said that there are a number of biological possibilities for using insects as a pesticide and asked whether that could not be an alternative to pesticides, which at least some of the House would like to get rid of. Does the Minister agree? What opportunities does she see to encourage this? I think that's how I can explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u39	That is also confirmed by Mr Graus, so we are going to listen to the Minister's reply. We shall proceed to the final contribution of the Chamber in the first term. This contribution is made by Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD. You too have three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A robust biodiversity is in the interests of all of us. Not everyone seems to always realize that. That is why it is good that we are discussing this today. The VVD is therefore pleased that the Plan Bureau for the Environment notes that there is a complete stabilisation and start-up recovery in relation to biodiversity. But that certainly doesn't mean we're already here. We are here because of the results of a German investigation. This shows that parts of Germany have seen a decline in flying insects. At the same time, we must also realise that a German study is not one-on-one useful for the Netherlands. This does not mean that we should not work towards increasing biodiversity. The question to the Minister is therefore whether her ministry has checked the results of the German investigation and what the overlap with the Netherlands is. Mr. Chairman. I told you, it's good to keep working on biodiversity. The VVD is therefore pleased that there are several initiatives to promote biodiversity in the Netherlands. Earlier this month, the Minister, together with dozens of parties, presented the National Bee Strategies. That is a good and necessary initiative. Is it possible to broaden small initiatives, as described in this National Bee Strategies, and make them more accessible to people or organisations who want to work with them themselves? A good example is also the Honey Highway along the A4 in Central Delfland. Here the vermin are sown with flower seeds to increase biodiversity. Many parties are also working on the Deltaplan Biodiversity Restoration, or the Statement by Driebergen. We look forward to the joint results of all participating parties in this project. And hopefully they will come up with a viable and realistic plan before the summer. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who wants to contribute to good biodiversity is needed to continue the rising trend. Allow room for various initiatives, innovations and the use of new techniques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u41	Please stand still. There is a short question from Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u42	I am pleased that there is at least recognition of the issue from the VVD Group as well. That saves a bit, because that has not always been the case in recent years; let me be clear about that. But if I listen carefully to Mr Weverling, I do not yet hear him link with mainstream farming practice. Does he agree with me that there is a tension with the current agricultural practice, with this enormous focus on increasing production, and that it is important that he understands himself with his colleague, Mrs Lodders, who likes to represent, and often hardcore, agricultural interests here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u43	Let me endorse what Mrs Lodder says about this: agriculture and horticulture are important for our food, for the daily food on our plate. That is why this is extremely important. Of course, there is a tension between increasing production and how we deal with biodiversity. That is why it is a good thing that the delta plan is being worked on and that the sector is at the table. That is why we are so curious about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u44	Finalizing, Mr. Grashoff? No, it's okay. I thank Mr Weverling. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u45	I propose that we proceed with the 30-member debate on the reduction of insect populations in the Netherlands. It is up to the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. She is going to answer the questions you have asked. I give the Minister the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing an interesting subject today. I think that almost all the speakers have stressed this. The reports on insect mortality are alarming, not only for nature, but also for the farmer. Here too, I always feel the tension for a while, but insects not only play a crucial role in our ecosystems....................................................................................................................................................... The farmer knows that, too. He knows that it is so important for pollination, pest control and degradation of crop residues and manure into organic matter that we ensure that the insect population is maintained. I understand that on 29 November you held a hearing with various experts to look at this issue themselves, partly in response to a German investigation which took place and its results. I think it was Mr De Groot who asked if I had followed the hearing. One of the speakers asked that. I was doing something different personally, but our officials followed it. I also asked them what the outcome of that hearing was. I understand from this that the general picture emerged that the continued intensification of agriculture has put pressure on insects in the natural and agricultural areas, but also outside. But I have also been told that there is progress in the nature reserves, for example around the butterflies, while the situation regarding butterflies in the agricultural areas is still deteriorating. Nature policy therefore seems to bear fruit. In my letter of 20 November, I also stated that I find the reports on insect mortality in Germany worrying. That is precisely why I asked Wageningen University to gather all available knowledge about the situation in the Netherlands. This concerns questions such as: what exactly do we know about the decline of the insect population in the Netherlands? And what are the possible causes of this? The researchers from Wageningen are currently busy with the final phase of answering the questions. In that sense, this debate is taking place a little too early. Mrs Ouwehand says: I will be blamed for being late, so I am only on time. I'll give her that; she's on time. But timing is everything, I say to Mrs Ouwehand. We must also wait for the results of our own research that is being done to get a better picture of the situation in the Netherlands and its possible causes. I have already indicated that I hope to send the final report to the Chamber before the end of the first quarter. I sincerely look forward to that, because it is important to get a good picture of the situation in the Netherlands. Last year, my predecessor sent a letter with all kinds of scenarios regarding nature-inclusive agriculture. Mrs Ouwehand asks what exactly is the level of ambition of this cabinet, and what exactly are we going to do in terms of direction and direction and... what was it again? Well, at least she asked about the different possibilities we have to influence that nature-inclusive agriculture. I think that during the budget debate I also indicated that I am very interested in nature-inclusive agriculture, because there are two worlds that I am convinced belong together. I myself paid a work visit to a farmer in Friesland some time ago. That was one of my first work visits. That was very interesting, because he wanted to do nature-inclusive agriculture. So he was also very conscious about the seeds and herbs that came up in his meadows and with meadow birds. That was very special, because that farmer was not a small farmer. Mr Grashoff also asked for this in an interruption debate with Mrs Dik-Faber on the level of production. He had about 200 head of cattle; then you are not a little boy in the Netherlands. He was pretty innovative. He was working on milking robots, really with the latest techniques. On the one hand, he was very conscious about what he called his responsibility for nature and biodiversity, but at the same time he also wanted to earn a good living. He proved that he could. So I would generally like to take away the impression that higher production or a certain size of companies is by definition equivalent to less biodiversity. That's not true. In fact, there are also certain techniques, I mention the word "proud" quite often, but I'm going to use it again anyway, so that we in the Netherlands can ensure that our production goes up, while at the same time contributing to things like sustainability. One example of this, which I have mentioned before, is the way we are growing our seed potatoes now. We are the country that can grow seed potatoes with the least water. Production is rising, but at the same time we are making a very important contribution to countries where there is a huge drought. They're just looking for this technology. So let's not create contradictions here either. Let us look for ways to ensure biodiversity and, as in this case, insects, and at the same time show that innovation can bring a lot of beautiful things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u47	Of course, the relationship between agricultural production and sustainability is more subtle and nuanced than simply "they are communicating vessels." I agree with the Minister. My claim was not aimed at that either. The Minister's example is striking. Potato cultivation is the most important crop that currently depends on chemical plant protection products and thus makes an important contribution to the loss of biodiversity. I say this in order to highlight the tension between production and biodiversity. That example was well chosen by the Minister. My question to the Minister is: does she agree with me that, without letting go of the nuance, we should get the question of principle right, and that could also very well go in the direction of those Wageningen scientists, what is the relationship between increased production and biodiversity? If we do not include that sacred house in the discussion, I fear that we will be able to continue to talk alongside each other in this discussion for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u48	I don't want to put up the statue that it's a sacred cottage. I want to engage in all possible discussions. But I will also put the ball back, in this case with Mr Grashoff. I said, "it's more nuanced," and he said, "I recognize it," and yet he goes right back to "production increase = bad for biodiversity." Let's have that discussion with each other. How are we going to ensure that we have an agriculture where farmers can earn a living every morning with products that farmers produce for the day and the dew; we can also be a little grateful for that and recognize in what kind of tension they operate in, and with which we also help them to work on certain things and goals, on social matters that are also of great importance to the farmer himself, with which we are thus reaching out to them? We are also doing this in the coalition agreement, which is because of the much more integrated word 'the word has often been used to look at'. For example: how can a farmer get a better price when he is engaged in nature-inclusive farming? I've just been to a big milk factory. They have an assignment there now. They said: retail is currently asking for milk produced on nature-inclusive farms. They put a few extra cents on the milk price. That's how the farmer can make it happen. It is not just a 'production' and a 'biodiversity' box, as I say to Mr Grashoff. If we ask so many of our farmers, as a society, we must also dare to say that we must compensate farmers for this. Otherwise, all our farmers will eventually be gone and we will only get milk from countries where the word 'naturally inclusive' cannot even be spelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u49	You have both said quite a lot of things. Now a brief follow-up question from Mr Grashoff and perhaps a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u50	The second example mentioned by the Minister concerned the income model for farmers. That was a good example, much better than that before, of the seed potatoes. That was not about the amount of production. Because if you actually take that meadow milk from a natural company, the production is likely to be slightly lower than the maximum we know in the Netherlands. Then you can put an extra raise on the price. The Minister shouldn't put me in a booth where I don't fit in and say things I never claimed. Otherwise, she will have to read a note from me, already from 2001, on the model of farmers' incomes. I will not allow myself to be put in such a booth, but I ask the Minister to see the tension between increasing production and sustainability. That tension field is really there. And if she doesn't want to accept mine, I'm willing to believe that. I'm asking her to put that question well back in science. Then there will be a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u51	We're listening to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u52	I think I've already given my answer, Mr. Chairman. I don't have taboos. That's what I want named here. I think that is what I have been referring to since my very first debate. In this sense, Mr Grashoff must also be fair. It's also a search with each other for how we do this. Mr Grashoff already knows exactly how we're going to do it, but I always think it's a challenge to make sure that we do the farmers justice and at the same time achieve a number of goals in relation to nature. That is of the utmost importance and I am working on it. I hope that we can discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u53	Let's go to De Groot now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u54	You referred to a visit to a milk factory and to a supermarket that wants sustainable milk. Now, I happen to know one supermarket, something with blue, and I do not know if the Minister is aware of how many farmers this is about. It is of course very good that there are niches and that nature-inclusive farmers can deliver their milk regionally to the supermarkets. The more differentiation the better for the farmers' wallet. But we have 18,000 dairy farmers in the Netherlands. This supermarket involved 13 dairy farmers who received something at the price, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u55	I understand that there were more, but it is true that not all of the Netherlands burps nature including. That's true. I think we should look first. There will always be diversity in the way milk is produced, for example at this point. At the same time, it is not the case that the traditional way of farming is, by definition, equivalent to: bad for biodiversity. Let me give you an example. As a government, we strongly steered ground-boundness. Groundboundness is not necessarily nature-inclusive. For one thing you do need the other, but a ground-bound farmer does not necessarily work nature-inclusive. But soil-boundness can also bring with it all kinds of aspects that are good for biodiversity. So we will always keep diversity in the offer. I think we should look together for ways in which we get much more balance in agriculture and nature. That's true, yes. That's the discussion I'm trying to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u56	In conclusion, Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u57	I would like to warn that we are doing a good job with a number of niches and that we do not have enough guardrails for the other dairy farmers for the ground-boundness and use of biology and nature in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u58	Yeah, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u59	The Minister takes note of this. Then we'll continue with Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u60	I'm gonna keep going at this point anyway. I would like to warn the Minister about the risk of not explicitly choosing: we must do something else in agriculture. I remember Minister Verburg. He always said the same thing: people have to pay for more nature, organic and animal welfare. But she also always said: organic is good, but common is also good. Then, of course, you don't encourage people to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u61	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u62	I wonder if the Minister will see that dilemma as well. If you do not make a clear choice, you also make it diffuse for the consumer. Is it not wise to choose at least a perspective from the optimal production that takes into account the long-term interests of production and animal welfare, and yet a little more away from that sacred feeling that depends on that maximum production? Because I agree with Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u63	I give the floor to the Minister to answer this, but I would like to point out to you all, colleagues and the Minister, that it is difficult for me to find out exactly the distinction, but that this is about the insect populations. I would ask you to limit it to that and the threat of a reduction in it. 'Cause otherwise, I'm afraid, we're running out of time. You also have a lot of other debates where you can discuss the various topics. I now give the floor to the Minister, who will be able to give you a good answer to your question. Then you can ask a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mrs Ouwehand talks about the feeling of being around it. I think we should stick to the facts. That's actually what I'm saying. If those facts say it's not going well, we need to do something about it. But if those facts say that this is not a one-on-one cause, we must also dare to recognise it. That's why I'm doing that research now, too. I'm making a little bridge, chairman of the Dutch insect population development committee. I want to know what's going on and what's causing it. All kinds of conclusions are drawn here. Apparently, they already know what's coming out of the investigation. I hear it, but first I would like to know what is coming from the scientists in the Netherlands themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u66	Then I'll switch back to very specific insects. They do have to do with the system choices in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u67	I'll take that from you. Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u68	Then I wonder whether the Minister is aware of the precautionary principle. Because we've been warned for a long time about the consequences of these new supertoxins. Let me take one category out: the neonicotinoids. We can't just afford to do a little more research and a little more. We've been warned about that for 10 to 15 years. Does the Minister have the precautionary principle on her mind when it comes to the responsibility of stopping the decline in bees and other pollinators?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u69	As far as plant protection is concerned, too, I take it a little more broadly, because there were a few more questions about plant protection, which is that we always rely on the insights of the official bodies. That is what we are guided by. These are EFSA at European level and Ctgb in the Netherlands. In this context, we have just had the debate on satsumas. They're scientists. You can find all sorts of things, but these are simply the objective data on which we have been basing our policies for years. Those scientists have to look again and again at the application of the product and what resources can be allowed on the market. The trajectory towards the neonicotinoids is now underway. So we're gonna get another piece of advice on that. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u70	I'd like to go back to organic farming anyway. That's what they call it. Then I must be able to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u71	Does this have anything to do with bugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u72	Well, indirectly, it all has to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u73	Then ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for the better earning model. That must indeed be removed from the retail sector. That is my adopted motion on a better income model for farmers, gardeners and fishermen, as well as the burden on the retail sector. But the question is this: as the minister visits companies, I also visit companies. I recently visited Frau Femke's company. She was at the Grüne Woche with us and the minister. Next to Frau Antje, the cheese lady, we also have Frau Femke. She represents the farmers there. Frau Femke has an example farm in Abcoude. The company she runs with her husband should not be called organic until, for example, she leaves her country still for two years, while they lead the way when it comes to free movement and grazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u75	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u76	While they lead the way when it comes to extracting heat from soil cover! They're ahead of everything! That's impossible, isn't it? Surely such people should be helped? Can't the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u77	That is the question and the Minister is going to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u78	This is a very specific case. I find that complicated to do here now. Mr Graus has more information on this, but I cannot just go into a situation. I find it complicated to judge that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u79	And that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u80	I'll funnel it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u81	No, a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u82	Yeah, I'll funnel it. It is crazy that a good farmer who leads the way should not be called organic because he will have to shut down his country for two years. That's a weird rule. Only then can he call himself a organic farmer, while he is a organic farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u83	And we hear the Minister's reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u84	I should have a little more information on that. I ask Mr Graus for that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u85	I suggest you see if you can still get out of there. The Minister continues her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u86	Mr. Chairman. I've already answered a number of questions. Mr De Groot asks whether we should wait another five years for a new bee strategy. I would also like to congratulate all the organisations. I'll keep us out of it for a while, but a lot of organizations have joined forces because they see that there are problems with the wild bees. A great deal of knowledge and such is now being unlocked to ensure that we can get back to this. A number of Members have asked what I will do, for example, in other policy areas. The vermen have been mentioned. There are cases that also play at the Ministry of I and W. I indicated at the bee strategy meeting that I was there on behalf of the cabinet. This means that this is something that concerns the entire cabinet and that I will also point out to my colleagues that we have this strategy and that it is important for everyone to work with it. In that sense, therefore, we will also do it wider. Should we wait another five years for a new strategy? I think we should also appreciate what we have now. We must now work on all the objectives set out in it. That doesn't mean we don't do anything in the meantime or we're gonna sit on our hands. I don't think you'd give me the opportunity to do that either. But let us also just appreciate what we have and apply it now, so that we can really take steps in that area again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u87	However, a short question from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u88	I can only endorse it. That was the point. We are making decisions here on a daily basis that we should actually test against a bee strategy. On the one hand, we cannot have fine words and, on the other hand, we cannot make decisions in the Chamber, or decisions proposed by the Minister, who are going in a different direction. That was the thrust of my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u89	So you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u91	Great. Mr. Chairman. I think I have already answered many of Mr Grashoff's questions and comments. He asked if I looked at the increase in production. He said there should be an integral look. I have indicated that we will do the same, including with regard to the earning model. He asked me if I'm willing to look at sacred houses like the PAS. This also applies: we have just introduced the PAS. Let's just take a moment to see how things are going with the things we enter. We will, of course, see what the results are and whether they meet what we have intended. We will also discuss this here, but we sometimes have to give things time first. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether we should expand the types of trends. I'm doing an investigation right now. Well, not me, but Wageningen University is doing a study to see what's going on with the population and what's causing the possible decline. On this basis, we can also assess whether further information is needed and what we are going to do about it. I hope that this research will give us more insight into this. She also asks about agricultural nature management. How can we carry that forward and support it? How can we create a bee- and insect-friendly CAP? That's important. We are now discussing the common agricultural policy. Mr Futselaar says that it is a European debate and that we must do something ourselves. That is true, but I believe that the CAP itself can become an extremely important instrument for achieving biodiversity targets. The Netherlands is very much committed to a shift towards, as we call it, direct payments for social purposes. Read: biodiversity, nature-inclusive agriculture and such aspects. I think we need to focus on all fronts, so that we can focus more on payments and thus also on the earning model, and more on nature-inclusive. Do we have to include bee- and insect-friendly aspects separately? That is a discussion about how we are going to achieve goals. The Netherlands is currently strongly committed to what we call subsidiarity. Goals are set in Europe. It is up to the Member States to look at how they are implemented. It is a great wish of the Netherlands to do so, because each country is different. I don't want to bet on the detail of the bee and insect-friendly passages. The discussion is already quite complex enough. But if we succeed in achieving this subsidiarity, we can of course also look more closely at how we are shaping things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u92	The Dutch position in the discussion on the common agricultural policy is fine in itself, but I do not think I need to tell this minister, less than any minister in this cabinet, that we do not always get what we want in European discussions. That is precisely why I see a risk in saying: we are going to try to regulate it through the CAP, and if we do not, perhaps we will do something else. I have nothing against the European strategy. I only have something against simply focusing on a European strategy, because then we run the risk that nothing will happen for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u93	It is therefore a good thing that we presented a bee strategy last week, that we are now doing research in Wageningen and, for example, that we are already drawing attention to biodiversity and nature including work in green education. We are working on many, many fronts at the same time, but this is also a part, and a not insignificant part. It is true that we are not always right, but we have already won one step, namely that the Commission has now included it in its proposal. Last Monday I had a discussion with my fellow Members on the common agricultural policy, in which we stressed it again. I have heard Mr Futselaar's encouragement to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u94	I understand very well that the Minister is saying that he does not want to define targets up to the level of bee or butterfly. However, I can see that it will be easier for farmers to get to work on this when there is a European earning model. Europe can help us. If we were to use only national resources, we would also have to look at where we can get the resources from at national level. Our farmers are in a European playing field. If we put this European on the agenda, our farmers will have the same challenge as their German and French colleagues, and they will have the same budget. I would like to hear a few more words from the Minister about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u95	There is certainly attention in Europe to the question of bees, for example. I even spoke to my Slovenian colleague about this last Monday, for example. The Slovenians go a long way in. They also have a lot of knowledge about it. By the way, Slovenian scientists are involved in our bee strategy. I even spoke to them last week. This kind of discussion is therefore taking place in Europe. But the situation is different from one country to another. That is, of course, always the tension in the CAP: you are drawing up a very general policy for very different situations. In southern Europe there is drought. We have too much water. These are aspects that you need to take with you in shaping your policy. At European level, we need to make some kind of move towards more payments for societal goals. That is what we have formulated in the coalition agreement. At the same time, we are in favour of being able to implement this nationally, so that we do not just get very specific targets. We have lost a great deal of accountability to that.... underestimated that not... and you may not even realize the goal yet. I therefore call for the debate on the CAP to focus more on the principles and the greater objectives, and for their implementation to be made more national.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u96	Are we done, Mrs. Fat-Faber? No? Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u97	I understand very well what the Minister means: the more specific you make the goals, the more implementation and administration you get. Each country, of course, is very different. I understand that very well. But let us be honest: Europe has a common agricultural policy. There's a pot of money for that. If we in the Netherlands were to decide that we consider this point to be very important, then at least let it be a possibility that European funds will help us in this. I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u98	I think that space is in place at the moment when we can make the two-way between payments for social purposes and how we want to achieve national implementation. But I also have to manage the expectations: we're not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u99	Madam Secretary, how close are you to answering the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u100	I think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u101	There's gonna be more and more people coughing around here, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll do my best, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u103	No, no, I did not mean it that way, but my proposal is that you continue with the answer and I ask colleagues to allow you to speak so that at the end we can consider whether there are any pressing questions. They also have a second term if they wish; of course they do not have to. That's how we keep efficiency in the meeting a little bit. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u104	Yes. I've arrived at Mr. Geurt's questions. He has asked a number of more specific questions about the investigation. I have already indicated that I hope to deliver the research by the end of the first quarter. So that's what's going on. He also asked what knowledge we didn't have. That is indeed one of the elements that will be included in that investigation. I have also put a number of questions to the researchers. One is to identify the priority monitoring and research questions they see in order to better understand the problem of insect mortality. Mr Geurts has also asked about the distinction that is made in insect species, such as on the ground or flying. In principle, all insect species are examined, but useful data from multiannual series are available for a limited number of species groups. In any case, the researchers have data from groups of flying insects. These are records of butterflies, dragonflies, bees, moths and hoverflies. As regards the distinction between the area where these insects occur, I can say that I expect the researchers, as far as they have them available, to include the spread maps of the insects as well. The report will address possible explanations of trends and causes of decline. Mr Geurts also mentioned the 'Brabant debate', as I shall just mention. It may be a little disrespectful to say so, but it is a question of several companies running without proper permits and of the fact that the nitrogen deposition of industry in nature areas is apparently a factor three more. He even mentioned a maximum factor of eleven. At the start of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen was known that several companies did not always have a license. We are talking here about the so-called interim workers. These concern both industrial and agricultural enterprises. This has been taken into account in the PAS. The programme offers the space and support to enable these interim workers. The PAS monitoring reports show that the nitrogen deposition of industry in nature areas, as estimated at the time of the beginning of the PAS, is now more or less the same. The deposition is between 3% and 4% of the total deposition. Industry's share of the total national deposition has remained stable. I do not recognize those three and eleven factors that Mr Geurts mentioned, but I hope that I have given him a little more insight into the issues that are going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u105	A brief response from Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u106	I just called it the nitrogen gate in Brabant. The figures up to 11 I mentioned are from the report that came out of that drawer. It is part of it, but I can imagine that the Minister does not know it because it is also a Brabant matter. Only, the consequences are national.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u107	For the Acts it is noted where that statement came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u108	Finally, Mr Geurts asked whether the use of less fertilizer would contribute to improving the insect population. It could be. It can contribute to stimulating natural processes in the soil. Animal manure has obvious advantages over fertilizer when it comes to stimulating organic processes in soil. This has to do with the organic substances in animal manure. The use of high organic fertilisers, such as solid manure and straw-rich manure, is therefore preferable. Mr Graus asked about the ban on neonicotinoids. That investigation is now under way. So we'll be getting advice on it from EFSA soon. Then the Ctgb will also respond to it. I also got the bee hotel myself when I had a consultation with all kinds of nature organisations. So they gave me that bee hotel. I haven't put it down yet, but I'm sure I'm going to. Mr Graus has asked if I am prepared to discuss with the UNG on the sidelines. As part of the bee strategy, I have already indicated that it is a responsibility to include the other public sectors. The municipalities are already working on this themselves. If that's what it takes, I'll bring that to your attention. Mr Graus spoke about the fees for beekeepers. I do not know exactly what levy he was referring to, so I also find it complicated to say exactly what charges they should not be receiving.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u109	I will give Mr Graus a brief opportunity to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u110	Thank you for what the Minister has said so far and also for setting a good example with that bee hotel. I was talking about people getting fees, including beekeepers. My request was - and I have sometimes tabled a motion on this - to spare beekeepers from these municipal taxes because they are actually contributing. The Minister can do this better in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities than I do, because I am not heard in it, therefore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u111	Okay, well, then we've got exactly what you meant, because that's what the minister was looking for. At least I hope it is clear and then the Minister can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u112	Yeah, when it comes to generic municipal charges. There are quite a lot of people, even in municipalities, who do quite good things. That's not just about keeping bees. They all pay municipal charges, so in that sense... In any case, it is not up to me, because that is at the level of the municipalities, which of course determine who gets what imposed. But to say generically that beekeepers do not have to pay any or less municipal tax, I find it complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u113	That's the answer. Actually, I didn't want to do any interruptions right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u114	Mr President, these levies are specifically imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u115	Then tell me one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u116	And so not the generic that every human being has to pay for. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u117	Clear! Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u118	We are also looking at the beekeepers, which Mr Graus also mentioned. We are familiar with the problem, but we are really still working to see how to deal with it. Mr Futselaar asks what has been done since November. I think I have just indicated that we have therefore launched the studies and at the same time that we have the bee strategy, that we are working on education, that we are working on the CAP to ensure that more social goals are also paid for. So a whole set of measures, I'd like to say. He also asks about biological plant protection, what steps we are going to take. As I have indicated, it is also one of my goals to ensure that we move forward. In that we are actually constantly looking, including with the authorities involved, at which they run into the admission of alternative means, for example. How can we speed this up in order to create more market for these resources? I think we are also working on this in many areas. Mr Weverling asks if we are doing a check on the German investigation. We do our own research, we just look at our own situation. But of course, if there are any useful insights from that German research, they will undoubtedly be taken into account by the researchers. And can we also broaden citizens' initiatives in this area? Well, that bee strategy was signed by 40 parties. That is quite a reflection of society, where I liked the fact that the NLTO was also included, and State Forestry and Natural Monuments but also the government, so very diverse. There were just different parties. I think that is also the only way forward. Those 40 parties were all very motivated to continue with this work, so that will also lead to other initiatives. My final comment concerns the delta plan on biodiversity. A number of your colleagues have also expressed their appreciation for this. I share that appreciation. I spoke to some of the people involved last week. They're very motivated to start working on that delta plan. I have indicated, also on the occasion of the motion: when you need support, we want to offer it. But they themselves have also explicitly stated: let this be something that we ourselves are going to shape. So they themselves consider it important that they continue to do so as signatory organisations and that they do not immediately interfere with politics, because they are also convinced that they can take these steps further. But I have indicated that if there is any need for support, we are always prepared to do so. I also admire those who are committed to this. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u119	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Then we have reached the end of the first term. I have also indicated that, if there are still pressing interruptions, I will give you the opportunity to do so, but I note that there will of course be a second deadline. I would ask Mr Graus, who wishes to cause an interruption, to ask his question on the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u120	It's about the use of parasite sneak wasps for a short time. I have had Mr Futselaar expand that question once again, because it is about which insects can possibly be used against the varroa destructor. They seem to be there, but I'm not an expert on the subject. So I can't judge it, which is why I'm asking the Minister to find out with her team.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u121	Yeah, we're gonna ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u122	Where there are possibilities for the application of biological plant protection, we are always willing to see if that is possible. I don't have that knowledge ready for a while either, but if the possibilities are there and it's justified, I think we need to look at how this is developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u123	This brings us to the second deadline, if necessary. I can see Mrs Ouwehand approaching, so at least that is the case with the Animal Party. I shall limit the speaking time of those Members who use their second term to one minute. I encourage you to use that minute properly. Mrs Ouwehand, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u124	Thank you, Mr President. In dealing with the agricultural budget, the Minister said that in six weeks she had discovered more dilemmas than she had thought possible. Our critical followers of Foodlog made that dilemmas force the minister to choose. That could be explained negatively, but the good news is that she can really rule. I have the modest impression that farmers crave direction; hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the interest of bees and other crucial organisms in the ecosystem it is necessary to switch to an animal-friendly and environmentally sustainable form of food production;]] [[noting that different scenarios have been developed for the conversion to this pollinators- and farmer-friendly agriculture;]] [[calls on the government to direct the transition to an animal-friendly and environmentally sustainable form of food production,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr. Chairman. I very much hope that the Minister has the courage to make this choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u126	We'll wait and see. Thank you. Mr De Groot has waived a second term. I call Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that various national and international studies show that Dutch biodiversity is under pressure, as is evident from, for example, the latest research carried out by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, on the environmental performance of the Netherlands, the Review of the Environment of 2017 and the recent research carried out by Radboud University in 63 natural areas;]] [[noting that the Environmental Assessment indicates that agreed targets such as the Birds and Habitats Directives are not yet in sight;]] [[calls on the government, with co-governments and all relevant civil society parties, to draw up a national biodiversity plan with concrete targets for the restoration of biodiversity in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr. Chairman. I played a bit of a loan neighbor, because the operative part of this motion is exactly the same as the motion of 23 February 2017 tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mrs Koşer Kaya and Mrs Van Tongeren. I believe that the recent developments have brought additional proof of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u129	Thank you. Mrs. Dik-Faber, do you need a second term? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am also very much looking forward to the studies that are now being carried out in Wageningen on the possible consequences for monitoring in the Netherlands and on the measures that we will have to take with each other. On the occasion of the debate, I would like to table one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 75% of our food crops depend on pollinating insects, but that the number of bees and pollinators is declining in numbers and species;]] [[Whereas preserving the environment and biodiversity of insects depends, inter alia, on good soil management, the presence of flower and field edges and sustainable plant protection and should therefore be embedded in agricultural, food and nature policies;]] [[calls on the Government to actively promote a bee- and insect-friendly common agricultural policy in the European Union, with the preservation and enhancement of biodiversity, and to regularly inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr. Chairman. I once tabled a motion (27858, No. 273) in which I ask the government, if it wishes, to cooperate with the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) in order to ensure that municipalities will no longer impose specific charges on beekeepers. That motion was only supported at the time by my own group, which makes sense, and by GroenLinks and the Party for Animals. Maybe there'd be a little more support for it now. I have not retabled the motion, but it is possible that the Minister, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, will be able to do so. I was talking about infected rats, but also with the trade of bee people, shit, like destructors, is imported. I would also like to see action taken on that. For example, many dogs are from the former Eastern Bloc countries. The minister mentioned Slovenia as one of the top players. Where did this shit in the import come from? It's not just about infected rats. I hope we find a bug as soon as possible that can fight these parasites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you, Mr. Graus. Since Mr Weverling has also waived a second-term contribution, we come to the last speaker of the Chamber: Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr President, not a motion but a brief reflection. I actually see two ministers in this debate. I see a minister saying, "I want to get a thorough investigation done." That's excellent. I see a minister saying that there are no taboos for me. I think that's excellent, too. But if from GroenLinks comes the suggestion to take a look at the PAS, then the reaction is: that's what we've just started to do; let's not jump to conclusions. I see a contradiction in that. I give the Minister a warning: if she wants to be the minister who knows no taboos, she cannot also be the minister who keeps walking on the beaten track. That's my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you. Excellent within one minute's speaking time. I see the Minister can answer right away. That's very much appreciated. I give the floor to the Minister for her answer in the second term and her opinion on the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mr. Chairman. The first motion by Mrs Ouwehand on item No. 119 asks me to direct the change towards an animal-friendly and environmentally sustainable form of food production. She herself indicated that it was about stimulating, steering and directing. I think that's a nice mix of the things we're doing. It's not something we government do alone. You're gonna need a lot of parties for this. It's also about being steering at one point and stimulating at the other. In that sense, it's a mix of things. So I think the motion is far too strong. I have already mentioned the example of the Declaration of Driebergen. There are parties who say: let us; do not dive on it as politically right away. If I had to take the lead in this case, I'd almost have to take over. I do not think it is right to do things that arise in society. In that sense, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u136	The motion in part No. 119 is not recommended. Mrs Ouwehand would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u137	The beauty of those three different levels that you could choose is that direction includes them all. Regie can also stimulate. But if you only choose to stimulate, then you have no direction. The role of director actually includes the whole mix as the Minister has just described it. This is just to clarify what the motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u138	I'm looking at the minister: does that change your judgment on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u139	That doesn't change my judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u140	The judgment on motion in part No. 119: dissuade. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mr Grashoff's motion for a resolution 120 calls on the government to draw up a national biodiversity plan with co-governments. I have already indicated that there is a statement by Driebergen; so does Mr Grashoff. On the contrary, the parties are developing a delta plan for biodiversity. I have just spoken to the parties and I have said that it is very special, because it is precisely because the parties themselves have taken the lead that they are putting me in a difficult position. I think it is tough for them to do so, because when all the parties involved come up with a supported plan and ask me what I'm going to do with it, I have to come from a very good house to reject it. So I think it might well be very effective by the way they do it, especially since it really encompasses all the parties involved in this. If I'm going to say "you will" or "you will," as a government, I'm going to have to organize all the support after that. I find this bottom-up initiative much stronger. So I'd like to see what they're coming up with. Perhaps they are putting me in a position to do a number of things that might not have come up directly under my direction. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u142	The motion in part No. 120 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u143	You don't have to be able to look very closely into a glass ball in order to establish that a social initiative will at some point just get back on the table of government and politics, because things will also be asked. It's about money, maybe regulation and some space, all kinds of things, but without that government, it's not gonna be him. The social initiative is fantastic, but it will not happen that the government sits back and just says: this is a fantastic initiative and if you have a plan, I say hello. It won't be like that. Eventually, it will cost a series of decisions and proposals, including those of the Minister, to make this not only a paper plan, but also a real plan. That is what this motion is asking for. It does not ask the Minister to catch up or get in the way of them all, but rather to make a plan with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u144	It says here that I need to draw up a national biodiversity plan with concrete objectives. That plan is now being drawn up by a number of parties which I am extremely grateful to them for taking up that glove. Does this mean I won't have anything to do after that? No, definitely not. In fact, I think that we also have a role in this when the plan is in place, but I do want those parties, so to speak, to put me on the spot. I don't want to turn it around by making a plan of my own, telling them what to do. Let's just wait and see what they come up with. Then here we are going to have the debate on exactly what that means. But if I'm going to draw up a national biodiversity plan now, I'm going to go through that social initiative, so I'm not going to give it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mr. Grashoff, the Secretary of State is deceiving the motion. Very briefly, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u146	I think this is a very theoretical approach. Social parties want nothing more than to work together with the government. They understand perfectly well that in the end it will not be possible without that government. The Minister does not have to get in the way of anyone by coming up with such a plan and taking responsibility for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u147	I've actually spoken to the parties in the last few weeks. We discussed with each other that they too would like it in this order. They would now like to be given the space to develop a plan. I have indicated: call you but if you need support, we will see what we can do. But when they come up with a plan, I must come from a good house to turn my head away from it. That's the power of this plan. In that order, I would like to keep doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u148	I suggest that you proceed now with the further response and qualification of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u149	Yes. I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's motion on item No. 121. We have just had the discussion on a bee- and insect-friendly common agricultural policy. I'm trying to get the motion a little wider. I hope that I can read the motion in such a way that this does not mean that I have to focus on bee and insect targets, because that is really not realistic, but that in our common agricultural policy we are moving towards payments for societal biodiversity targets. That's what I'm doing. If I may explain it that way, it's "judge chamber," but without specific targets on bees and insects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u150	One second, Mr. Geurts. I hear the minister say "judge chamber." She'll ask for confirmation if she can explain it that way. It may be relevant to have that confirmed by the author of the motion before I give Mr Geurts an opportunity to ask questions. Do you agree with the explanation the Minister suggests?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u151	I agree. The word "specific purpose" or "target" is not mentioned either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u152	Then we'll establish that with each other. Does Mr Geurts have a short question on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u153	I find the Minister's answer somewhat remarkable. It has just been said to other parties: it is superfluous, because it is the government's commitment. This motion gets "judge chamber." Does this also mean that each party can direct its wishes to the Minister within the CAP, so I see this motion even though the financial framework for the CAP has not yet been established?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u154	That's what we're hearing from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u155	Many discussions are taking place within the CAP. I have just mentioned the question of subsidiarity. I have indicated the question of how we should deal with the position of farmers in the chain. These are general terms to which we sometimes give more details. I continue to stress that we should be on these general principles. That's why I asked if I could explain the motion in this way. Otherwise it gets too specific and then it gets complicated. If I may explain it that way, therefore, I had to do that check, and this is in line with what we are doing in the discussions on the CAP. Then it won't hurt. That's my verdict on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u156	In this way, the verdict remains on the "judge chamber" motion. Mr Grashoff also has something to say. I do not want to have a whole discussion about the qualification that the Minister has now given to this motion. I would like to give you a brief opportunity to say something because I have also allowed Mr Geurts to do so, but I would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u157	I would like to ask the Minister to explain why this 'judgement chamber' was given and earlier in the debate the 'unneeded' on my motion, while at least I do not see the difference so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u158	A clear question. I'll ask the Minister to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u159	I had to have an interpretation of how I could explain that motion. I don't want targets, I don't want to steer on specific points. In the case of a bee- and insect-friendly common agricultural policy, I assume that is a common agricultural policy. That's what we're committed to. But I myself made an interpretation of it that was not easy to read at first. I have heard that Mrs Dik-Faber can live with this interpretation. Then it won't hurt. Anyway, it's up to you to judge this. If Mr Grashoff says 'but then it is something I do not need to support', it is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u160	One sentence!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u161	I have to say that the Minister cannot justify why in one case she says 'unneeded' and in the other case 'judge Chamber'. I think that's a little close.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u162	That's the point. The Minister doesn't have to respond to that anymore. The Minister has motion No. 121 "Qualification Chamber" given. I consider that relevant to the administration, for which I am responsible here. Minister, that brings you to the end of the motion, but you may still have questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u163	I have another question from Mr Graus about the imposition of levies specifically on beekeepers and whether I would like to make a commitment to this. I indicated that I would like to use the VNG to discuss the bees, but it is really not my competence to focus on which taxes may or may not be imposed from the municipalities. I hope I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u164	I'll take that as a supposition. That is not disputed by colleagues either. This means that we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u165	I would like to thank the Minister for her presence in this debate. I note that next Tuesday we will be voting on the documents before us and the motions that have been tabled. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.45 p.m., after which the Chamber will begin its work and then settle the further afternoon programme. Thank you.
