ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin with Mr Pechtold's question on behalf of D66 to the Prime Minister about the latest developments at the G7 Summit and the withdrawal of the final statement by President Trump. I call Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A week after the election of President Trump, I called Prime Minister Rutte to the Chamber, because he had called the President elect and he reassured us. We could go to sleep quietly in Europe, because after the conversation he also wrote to us: "I look forward to working together with Donald Trump on a safe and prosperous world and on a strong relationship between the US and the EU." Mr. Chairman. Nice ambition, but here we are, two years later. A safe world? America withdraws from the Iran deal, says the Paris climate agreement unilaterally and raises doubts about the future of NATO. What about a prosperous world? America pretty much threatens all its allies with a trade war. A strong relationship between the US and the EU then? The EU is not excluded when it comes to American protectionism. And Trump himself doesn't miss a chance to show that he has nothing to do with our basic values of democracy, freedom and respect for justice and human dignity. Mr. Chairman. With Brexit and the election of Trump, the post-war world order became fragile. After the break-up of the G7 this week, that order seems to collapse permanently. Tomorrow, the Prime Minister will speak in the European Parliament. I don't have to chew him for what I should say last time, because at his conference he kicked off nicely. At the congress of the VVD he said: "The future for the Netherlands lies within the European Union." That can't just be a promise to party members. That is why the question before us today is: are we going to continue with the country that is slowing down in the European Union, or is Prime Minister Rutte, one of the most experienced leaders in Europe? I call you to show new Dutch leadership in Europe!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u3	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. If I have made it so that Mr Pechtold is present or at least has listened to my speech at the Congress of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, then I have almost achieved the most beautiful thing I would have wanted, namely Mr Pechtold's interest in the VVD. Thank you for that. But without fooling around. As far as the Netherlands in the European Union is concerned, it is the Netherlands, at a time when I myself may be Prime Minister, which always comes up with radical proposals, whether it be the internal market, migration, for example the agreements made with Turkey on limiting Syrian refugee flows, joint external border surveillance or climate. It is precisely the Dutch government that consistently comes up with radical proposals to further strengthen this cooperation. Why is that? Because I myself, but I also think all the cabinets I was allowed to run, especially this cabinet with D66 in it, are convinced that for a small prosperous country like the Netherlands, the fifth economy of Europe, the fourth economy of the euro area, but much smaller than the very large countries in an unstable world, the embedding in European cooperation is of great importance for our security and freedom. So we will also continue to put forward the radical proposals to further strengthen European cooperation in the areas where Europe offers added value. The coalition agreement is, of course, indicative and very helpful. It has always been my consistent line that, if a country such as the Netherlands is to succeed internationally, we must invest in the multilateral world order, the United Nations, membership of the Security Council, NATO, but certainly also the European Union. We'll continue with that. Mr Pechtold also made a number of comments on the United States. I will not argue here that the relationship with the United States is without discussion or, to quote the US Secretary of State, Pompeo: yes, there are irritations in this important relationship. At the same time, I am also quoting Stef Blok, who recently said that there is more that connects us than drives us apart. The transatlantic relationship and cooperation within NATO are particularly important for those who attach importance to this multilateral world order. Finally, perhaps I may also make a little teasing towards Mr Pechtold. We also need to look at our defence efforts. Fortunately, we are doing the same with this cabinet, which is causing the greatest increase in defence spending in recent history. But we are also dealing here with an America that is responsible for half of NATO's economy, which currently pays more than two thirds, almost three quarters, of the entire NATO account. The President of the United States is doing things that we do not want to do, such as the trade measures towards Europe or the withdrawal of the agreements with Iran. We are abandoning that, but I think he has a serious point where he is calling attention to defence expenditure, and we are also showing with our extra spending that we are taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u5	On the one hand, I welcome this answer, but I would like to look a little more concretely with the Prime Minister on what the role of the Netherlands and the Prime Minister in particular will be in the near future. I see a unique opportunity for the Netherlands. I see a unique opportunity for an experienced Prime Minister who is appreciated by his European colleagues. Now that the British are saying goodbye, the tension within Europe is a bit Merkel-Macron. Next thing you know, tandem determines what's gonna happen. They make far-reaching statements. They have ideas about what they want with Europe. I call on this cabinet, I call on the Prime Minister not only to ride on the side seat, but to take the wheel. The Prime Minister mentions important matters. I always notice that this is about external borders and defence, but fortunately he also calls the climate today. That's good for me. That brings back a little balance in what Europe stands for. But I would also like to know whether we can make that image of the Prime Minister a little bit of 'not' or 'not now' a thing of the past. Are we really joining Merkel and Macron in the Dutch interest? Will the Netherlands really play a role in this? Is the Prime Minister going to say anything about that tomorrow? Does the Prime Minister agree, for example, with Merkel that Europe must now, with what is happening in America, determine more its own destiny? Does he agree with Macron that we need to speed up solidarity in the euro area? Something the Prime Minister also mentioned. Is the Prime Minister going to argue, for example, that is not popular in each Member State for modernisation, but perhaps also increase the European budget? Is he going to interfere with energy independence, linked to the climate, when it comes to the gas from Russia? Our own gas, but also the gas from Russia, is a concern for my group. In short, I would like to hear a little more from the Prime Minister, where he also places the value community at the centre, not only in Europe, but with Europe, because that is what I have noticed in recent weeks: a lot is shifting on the world stage. There is an opportunity for Europe, but there is certainly also an opportunity for the Netherlands in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u6	I get that question. I also believe that we are working along these lines, for example, by working now, with the departure of the United Kingdom, to intensify relations with, for example, the Baltic countries, the Scandinavian countries, countries such as Ireland and Austria. We are working on a strong cooperation relationship with the French President in areas such as climate, migration, external borders, the G5 Sahel, and with Germany in a number of areas, because we are working well with the Germans. I should like to warn against automatically finding connections with everything that France and Germany always come up with. Above all, we must come up with our own proposals from our own strength, and I think that Mr Pechtold agrees with me. He mentions a few points. Raising the budget would be contrary to the coalition agreement, so I can't do that. The energy independence. I understand his comment on this, but with the return of the Groningen gas and the expectation that the Norwegian gas will not grow enormously, we will also have to be real and realize that our dependence on gas supplies from Russia will not be reduced in the near future. That is a fact. One of the reasons why I am committed to the whole climate and energy transition, regardless of the environmental reasons and the climate effects of CO emissions, is precisely this energy independence, as Mr Pechtold said. But let us not have the impression that this can be achieved in the very short term. Yes, once again, Europe is a value community. I will also speak about it tomorrow in my speech. The Netherlands has always had a position between the three great powers: the United Kingdom, Germany and France. It's been like that for centuries. This balance of power is shifting from the European Union with the departure of the United Kingdom. That is why we have been working in recent years on this other alliance, on this other relationship, where I believe that the Netherlands should play a special role, because we are the next largest economy after these large countries. Then there will be nothing for a while and then the next countries will come. So we're not one of those big ones, but we're not one of the smaller ones either. We are really in the middle of this and I think that, with a House of Representatives which is widely aware of the importance of membership of the European Union, we can try to work on a Europe that is indeed working on that security, working on our interests and working on the idea that it is not a zero-sum game, but that this cooperation also leads to a strengthening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. Pechtold. I shall now go to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u8	Now that the Prime Minister is talking about our security, I would like to put one specific question to him. You can say a lot about the Americans and certainly about the current American president. He's making his own plan now. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he is serious about defending himself, primarily for safety in the Netherlands, then in Europe and then in the world. Because if that is the case, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to seize this moment to distance himself from the permanent war that has been waged by NATO for 17 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u9	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u10	... being spilled over us. Is the Prime Minister willing to attend the NATO Summit...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u12	...to say no to extra military and a new mission...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u13	The Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u14	...to Afghanistan,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u16	...because that makes our world more unsafe in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mrs Karabulut, this is oral Question Time. You have 30 seconds to ask one question. Otherwise, I'm gonna talk through it, and that's really annoying. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Chairman. I believe that it is not the case that you can separate Dutch security from European security or that of the rest of the world. They're all intertwined. That is why the multilateral world order, regardless of trade interests, is so important, because it also leads to stability and a structured way of resolving conflicts in itself. Afghanistan. The cabinet will soon come forward with further information on our vision of what the Netherlands can do there. They're working on it. But stabilising Afghanistan and ensuring that the Afghan people, after the heavy intervention by NATO and so many other countries there in the period from the beginning of this century, are themselves able to shape the future, will, in some form, also demand a contribution from NATO in the near future. How we, as the Netherlands, relate to this, again, we will come up with further information on this. But I do not think it is in our interest to simply withdraw from the ark of instability around Europe, in which Afghanistan belongs. This puts our safety at risk rather than helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u19	The G7 summit, aimed at further shaping international free trade, failed. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that it is now also important to have a fundamental debate on globalisation, now that it is becoming increasingly clear that the negative effects are enormous, on the climate, on the social disruption that it causes, on the growing inequality in the world, on democracy that is increasingly being undermined by the free trade agreements? Should we not have a fundamental debate on globalisation and its desirability? Because, Chairman, and then I end up...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u20	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u21	Globalisation is not a natural phenomenon, it is a political choice. Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u22	Words have their meaning, of course, and the word "globalization" soon becomes a pacifier that everyone sucks on, but no one knows if a taste comes out of it. What do we mean by that? Eventually, it's unthinkable... I understand that Mr Pechtold has some difficulty with this picture. Excuse me. We will delete this part of the stenogram. The word "globalisation" has so many meanings. You're really gonna have to agree on that first. I cannot imagine that a country such as the Netherlands, with our open economy, does not interfere intensively with the rest of the world, whether it is about peace, security, human rights, trade and everything related to it. And yes, this includes the following. We are currently in the Netherlands getting our finances in order and reducing our public debt. Similarly, we cannot shift the environmental debt, the effects that our activities have on our planet, to future generations. That is one of the reasons why this cabinet has set about the most far-reaching target for 2030 in terms of reducing CO emissions, in order to actually reflect one and a half degrees of warming, as agreed in the Paris agreements of 2015. That is always connected, but one does not automatically lead to wrong effects on the second, provided that you monitor that coherence and take the right measures on both sides. But the Netherlands cannot withdraw on an island.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u23	Okay. Second, supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u24	Everyone has a different view of globalisation, and quite a few people are increasingly concerned about the lack of control over trade due to the increasing free trade, the tax avoidance associated with it, and the growing inequality in the world caused by international trade. Surely it is important that we in the Netherlands, an important player in international trade, have a fundamental discussion about whether we should not go much further towards regionalisation of production and consumption. I think that we should discuss this with each other, also in view of the current developments and the way in which America and other countries operate in the international economic order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u25	In many areas this regionalisation of production is, of course, taking place, also from an economic rational point of view. Just look at the food industry. Making finished products is simply priceless because the logistics costs would be far too high compared to the product costs. So that is already a process of regionalisation. That makes sense, too. The most important exporter of American cars at the moment is gradually not an American car company anymore, but a German car company. There too you can see that there is regionalisation, whether it is for America itself or for exports. Those cars aren't all from Germany anymore. So that's on its own. A country like the Netherlands always has to relate to that. We must always look at how best to respond to this and how we can use our expertise in the field of water and nutrition, so that we can make a positive contribution against the threat of environmental impacts. But there's one thing I'm saying. One of the great achievements of the world community over the past ten or fifteen years has been the fact that hundreds of millions of people have been lifted from poverty until recently. It's about hundreds of millions of people, and then I'm still conservatively estimating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u26	In response to Mr Pechtold's question, the Prime Minister said that we are in fact constantly making radical proposals in Europe in areas where Europe has added value. What interests me is how that changes in the light of the changing relationship with the United States. They left the climate agreement and the Iran agreement. The Prime Minister called that rude. There are trade sanctions. They left the G7 like a smoking mess. How does that change the Prime Minister's view of what has European added value? That seems interesting to me for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u27	First of all, I firmly believe that all the forces in America and Europe that are concerned with the direction of policy will agree on the importance of transatlantic relations, up to and including the President of the United States. That's one. At the same time, it should be noted that there is indeed growing conflict between Europe and America at the moment on the points mentioned by Mr Van Ojik. They're about Iran and the trade sanctions. At the same time, Europe and America have common interests in the field of security, but also in that area of world trade. This concerns, for example, the relationship with China and the question of how we can make use of the openings made by the Chinese President in early April to open up the Chinese market to financial products and insurance products, and to ensure better protection of intellectual property. We need to see whether it is possible to reach a situation of normalization of these world trade relations with China as well. America and Europe have an interest in doing so together. I have also always told the previous American President that I understand his attempt to connect Asia and America, but that it would be much better if he did so from a strong anchor in the transatlantic relationship. It would be much better to do so together, so that America is also much stronger in that attempt to engage with Asia. In view of the commitments made today in Singapore with caution, I think it is positive that these first steps are now being taken. It remains to be seen whether the agreements are being complied with, but first steps have been taken to denuclearise the Korean peninsula. This is once again a basis for at least my position and for so many others, that you can resolve major geopolitical conflicts in the world without an active involvement of the United States. In short: yes, there are occasionally family conflicts in this family relationship, and sometimes even tough family quarrels, but it is a close family relationship that we have with the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u28	I think there's still a little more going on than a fight in the family. The importance for the Netherlands and the European Union of how the United States is now developing is quite profound. There is an argument with allies in very strong terms, and dictators are praised. This raises the question of whether it is not time that the leadership of the free world, which is left vacant, was taken up from within the European Union. The Netherlands should play a role in this, indeed as the Prime Minister after the international rule of law, guardian of multilaterally resolving things with each other. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this relationship with the United States will always be important, but now is the time for Europe to show its strength to want to protect the free world?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u29	First of all, this will require a triple of the Dutch defence budget and, more or less, of the entire defence budget of Europe. Is Mr Asscher prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u30	Second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u31	Interesting; it's being debated. It was a very serious question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u32	Oh, yeah. I'll answer the question seriously, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u33	Yeah, we're in favour of higher defense spending. We are one of the few left-wing parties who have also argued for more defence expenditure...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u34	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u35	I think that's necessary, but I think more can be asked of this government, too. That raises the next question. Dutch jobs are directly at stake because of that trade war that Trump unleashed. That can be a lot of jobs; thousands of jobs easily, if that continues. How will the Dutch Government behave? We have seen that Trudeau and Macron's pat-down diplomacy is very limited. Will we see a lap dog in the White House on 2 July or will we see a prime minister who dares to defend Dutch interests and jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u36	I agree with Mr Asscher when it comes to what has already been mentioned: the withdrawal by the US Government of the agreements with Iran, and the announcement of trade restrictive measures towards Europe in the field of steel and aluminium. This means that Europe must now consider counter-measures. All this does not help to ensure that there is a well-functioning world trade system at the expense of prosperity. I agree with him, but his question was another: can Europe take over the role of the United States as leader of the free world? I'm pointing out a few facts to him. America is 20% of the world economy. America has emerged from a history rooted in the deepest values, which also shares Europe with America. This is not only about freedom of expression and democracy, but also about values such as honour, taking responsibility and ultimately doing your best: all fundamental values that are also anchored in our Western world. The same applies to human rights. That is why I made that first counter remark with the enormous defence expenditure that America is prepared to do to provide us with an umbrella of security, and the first thing we need to do is to hold back if Europe wants to take over that position, that apart from our economic power we also increase our defence spending. Then you're really talking about a dramatic increase. Then you don't talk about an increase to 2%, but then you talk about 3%, 4%. The Netherlands currently stands at 1.29%, far from 2%. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mr Ten Broeke. It can't be anymore, Mr. Asscher. Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u38	Mr President, I believe that the questions you gave Mr Pechtold relate to the G7. In the end, his questions were especially appreciated by the Prime Minister's European speeches. In particular, I was waiting for the moment when Mr Pechtold might propose that Mr Pechtold should be invited to the G8 the next time Putin returns. But let me try to bring it back to Canada. The G7 that took place there, of course, surprised us all. We have seen in Canada that Max Verstappen has driven a fantastic clear race. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with me that this should be the case for more flawless races and whether that is not the big news that comes from there? I'm just trying to help you bring it back to Canada, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u40	We're in Canada but not quite at the G7. But of course I am very happy with Max Verstappen and I thought his third place, although we as VVD of course go for the first place. We wish him that, too. Look at the G7 declaration issued: the importance of multilateralism, the fight against proliferation and weapons of mass destruction, the importance of the Middle East peace process and the equality between men and women addressed in the final declaration. These are important points for the Netherlands and Europe. This also applies to the issues agreed on in terms of favourable trade, the fight against trade barriers, reciprocity and reciprocity of favourable trade relations. I think that's all valuable. The American president initially had his signature underneath it, but decided to remove that signature for compelling reasons. I am only holding on to the agreement that has been reached at least for a while on this final declaration, in which I believe there are elements in which we, the House of Representatives and the Government, are very much in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u41	If Trump's performance has made one thing clear once and for all, it is that we as the Netherlands cannot operate alone on the world stage. Apparently, we need Trump's action to come to an agreement in Europe on essential issues. A number of colleagues have asked the Prime Minister: what are you going to discuss with the President of America, what are you going to bring in there; are you going to be a lapdog, are you going to stand up for business? I would much rather ask about this consensus: what role can the Netherlands, according to the Prime Minister, play in the multilateral context? Sometimes the EU is obvious, sometimes NATO, and sometimes it is the UN. But what role does the Prime Minister see for the Netherlands in improving world relations, both with the United States and with China, multilaterally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u42	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u43	The Netherlands is one of the larger European economies. Culturally, it feels very connected to the United Kingdom but also to the United States, the transatlantic relationship. With the Brexit, the Union does indeed have the opportunity to respond to Mr Pechtold's question within Europe, and I know that there is broad support for this in building coalitions within the European Union that ensure that there is sufficient balance in the major debates taking place within the European Union and dominated by a few large countries. Secondly, the importance of the transatlantic relationship has always been emphasised. In addition, we are one of the largest investors in the United States. There are currently 825,000 Americans at work thanks to Dutch investments. We have very broad and in-depth defence cooperation with the Americans, in many areas, which is greatly appreciated by both sides. But I would add one thing: when such a conversation with America takes place, it is inevitable that our defence budget will also be referred to, and I understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u44	I am glad that the Prime Minister has come to Question Time. I thought that was a change at level, including with colleagues. It's too bad...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u45	It can happen more often!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u46	I agree. I regret that the VVD has managed to bring every subject back to hard driving with polluting cars, despite all my appreciation for Mr Verstappen. But, Mr President, let us go back to the subject of Europe, the G7 and the uncertainty that comes out of it. I have two questions. Does the Prime Minister really intend to take a firm stand with Macron and Merkel when that trade war comes? Is the Netherlands then prepared to come up with an appropriate answer, not because we want to, but to show that we are a unity? Then there's my second question. When we talk about defence, I know that that word is always sensitive, and does the Prime Minister agree with me that European cooperation in this area means that you can do much more for less money? When we talk about a European army, everyone, especially here behind me in that box, shoots back into the curtains, but the Prime Minister knows what I mean. Working together means you can use a euro twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u47	The answer is yes twice. Let me illustrate this very briefly, starting with the point about trade. It is my view and that of the cabinet that it is inevitable that where America has taken these measures, Europe will take counter measures. This is currently being discussed within Europe. At the same time, it is very important that we keep the dialogue going to ensure that we move towards a de-escalation and that it does not escalate to a full trade war. It's still a conflict. It is a matter of great interest, but if we look at the overall trade between the United States and Europe, we are still talking about limited amounts. In the sectors that it touches, of course, those are the steel and aluminium sectors, which have a direct impact. The answer to the second question is also yes. There is no such thing as a European army, as Mr Pechtold is right in saying, but there is cooperation. Think of structured cooperation within the European Union in the framework of PESCO. Think also of the fact that the Netherlands, for example, has taken initiatives in the field of mobility. Jeanine Hennis started that and Ank Bijleveld now takes over. How do we ensure that we become much more effective in terms of mobility in Europe? This concerns both the physical infrastructure, the movement of forces across Europe, and the non-physical infrastructure needed for this. This Dutch initiative is currently receiving great support within the European Union. This also affects developments in procurement, for example involving small and medium-sized enterprises, and developments in the defence industry. Mr Pechtold referred to this by implication. The point is that you can organise things in such a way that the same euro will ultimately yield more. So I very much agree with both points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-2.u48	Thank you.
