ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman, the first speaker from the Chamber. It speaks on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon. There's a lot going on in the building world. The OVV, not really a social club, is always hard. But in his judgment of the building world, the council is harsh. People say there's a debt culture in construction. The transfer of guilt is more important than security. And we've seen that. Accidents. Collapses with unsafe concrete floors. Fire-dangered facade plates. And since 2011, there have been unsafe balconies and unsafe galleries. More and more incidents. Professor Nijsse concludes: the building world is ruined. In such a situation, good supervision is essential. And that's exactly the kind of supervision that's gonna go wrong right now. For almost 20 years, there has been talk of improving building supervision. And in early 2017, the House of Representatives voted on a new law, by the way, with a vote against the SP. The bad thing was that supervision was privatised. The good thing was that the consumer's position was strengthened. My predecessor said: the contractor and the builder deserve clarity, the client and the end user deserve our protection. And that's not happening yet. Does the Minister agree? And if so, what is she going to do about it? Because it's now the end of 2018, almost two years later. And there is still uncertainty and far too little protection. Meanwhile, the supervision of the construction leaves much to be desired. Minister Blok said last year that in many municipalities no one is looking at building and housing supervision. I repeat: in many municipalities no one comes from building and housing supervision. This is also apparent from research carried out by the municipal regulators. Of them 74% consider that supervision is insufficient. And 68% think that the new law will lead to more incidents. Why does the Minister allow these unsafe situations to continue? That's irresponsible, isn't it? Why is there not more protection and better supervision? As Professor Nijsse said, the teeth of supervision have been removed, the teeth can no longer bite. That's what gets people killed. So many incidents, so many unsafe situations. The new law on building control is a complicated law with many compromises. And that law was never voted in the First Chamber. Why didn't the minister change the law? Because in almost two years too little has happened, hasn't it? Does the Minister agree? The Minister now issued a letter showing that decisions of the House of Representatives on a strong position of municipalities are not being implemented. The legislative changes adopted shall be completed differently. When is the Minister going to carry out the statements of the Chamber as the Chamber intended them to be, and not as she interprets them? The Minister sent a new letter today about agreements with municipalities. That doesn't reassure enough. The OVV says that the many security incidents show that this sector cannot be without public oversight. The SP is therefore an outspoken opponent of privatising. Monitoring must not be curtailed, because that is to play with the lives of construction workers and users. Does the minister agree with me and the OVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. The next speaker, on behalf of the House, is Mr Koerhuis, on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. During the past year two car parks have collapsed, in Eindhoven and Wormerveer, and at least two are partly closed, in Almere and Bergen op Zoom. This week even another one is closed, in Zoetermeer. This is also the subject of the first question. Can the Minister state exactly what is going on in Zoetermeer? Moreover, the broadcasts of ZEMBLA and Nieuwsuur show that there are many buildings with fire-dangerous facade plates. We have seen the risk of this in Nijmegen, where several flats do not meet the requirements. Buildings should just be safe, whether that's your apartment, a parking garage or the ministry where you work. Building supervision must be good and a law has just been drawn up for that purpose. It is therefore regrettable that the treatment of that law, building the Quality Assurance Act, has been still in the Upper House for a year and a half. With this law, specialised offices can better support municipalities in building supervision. As a result, sampling by municipalities can be better based on a risk assessment. The examples of the past few months indicate that the law is needed, because it concerns the whole construction, not just the materials. Certain concrete floors and certain façade panels are not necessarily dangerous, but they are if they are wrongly laid out. This law not only improves supervision during construction and renovation, but also makes it easier to check afterwards how concrete floors and façade panels have been constructed. There's no reason why law enforcement shouldn't be stopped. The Ministry has ongoing consultations with the Association of Dutch Municipalities on the decision-making of the law. This may allow the law to gain wider support in the Upper House. I am prepared to work with other parties to see how we can best implement this. I am also prepared to make concessions on this point. A good concession seems to be to incorporate the governance agreement between VNG and the Ministry in the decision-making process on the law, in the general measures of governance and in the new response to the Upper Chamber. I thank the Minister for her letter this afternoon, stating that there is a draft agreement between VNG and the Ministry. Is there anything else the Minister can tell us about that? This law is about new buildings. A further question remains: how do we ensure that supervision of the safety of existing buildings is sufficient? As far as the VVD is concerned, this should be done in two ways: structural and occasional. No structural checks are currently being carried out on existing buildings. For existing buildings where problems are identified, there are already two occasional inventories, one for problem floors and one for fire-threatening facades. With that, it is now legally sufficient to ask building owners if everything is safe. The Minister did so last week in a letter to the municipalities on fire-dangerous facades. In order to ensure the independence of safety, the housing and building control and environmental services departments could play a role in this. Is the Minister prepared to investigate whether and, if so, how these departments and services are doing this now? And if so, how these departments and services can carry out structural risk-weighted and random checks for existing buildings and do occasional inventories themselves? Finally. We do not really know how big the problem is until we know how many buildings have problem floors and how many buildings have fire-threatening facades. I have asked for this before, along with my colleague Beckerman from the SP. I therefore ask the Minister again today whether she herself wants to know how big the problem is. Is it prepared to carry out two own one-off inventories and send them to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u5	It is, of course, remarkable that Mr Koerhuis and I are very much in agreement. We both resent that construction supervision is so badly regulated in the Netherlands and that far too little is happening from here. I have a question. Do you also follow the ruling of the OVV, which says: the many security incidents show that this sector cannot be without public supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u6	It's good that we both share the goal of a safe apartment, a safe parking garage. As I said in my speech, I agree with that. As I read that law, specialised agencies have to support municipalities in building supervision, so yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u7	In popular terms, it's really called privatising. That's exactly what the O.V.V. is warning of. Why would we replace one bad system with the next bad system? Isn't it much smarter to get that privatisation out of this law and not let the butcher judge his own meat?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u8	I welcome Mr Beckerman's question, because I do not want to replace one system with another. On the contrary, I want municipalities to be supported by specialised agencies. This may not be necessary for the big cities, but it is necessary for the small towns and all those villages, where it is much more difficult to manage housing and construction. It is precisely there that these specialised agencies need to be able to support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u9	I found what Mr Koerhuis said interesting about existing buildings and the concerns about façade panels and floors. I asked for attention a while ago for swimming pools and the stainless steel structures hanging there to rust over the chlorine vapours. Does Mr Koerhuis specifically choose only for these two or is it a broader problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u10	The two problems we have discussed extensively in this Chamber and are still going to speak are concrete floors and façade panels. But if you're proposing a third inventory by the Ministry, I'm prepared to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u11	Maybe a little more directional than that. I agree that these are big problems, but so there are more: balcony plates... We've seen stainless steel in floors. We've seen bricks falling down from the station in Breda. So there are a lot of that kind of specific techniques that, if not properly applied, are very dangerous. Do you really want to inventory something from the Empire for all these specific techniques? Shouldn't we get something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you for this question, because then I can explain it. No, I asked the Minister if the housing and construction departments and environmental services could do something structural here, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr Koerhuis said that something had to be done with the administrative agreement halfway through a legislative process. That's what my question to him is about. We have passed a law here in the Lower House. That law hasn't been ratified yet. You are now saying that the results of the administrative agreement must be incorporated into that law. Shouldn't we follow the path of a novelle instead of changing the texts around the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u14	Thank you for this question, too. No, we passed the law in the Lower House. Unfortunately, he's been in the Upper House for a year and a half. This law, which has been passed here but not yet in the First Chamber, also talks about general measures of governance that still need to be taken. That is what I am talking about when I ask whether the administrative agreement can be incorporated into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u15	Okay. I understand you better, but if it turns out that this administrative agreement contains elements which do not really follow the spirit of the law, do you agree with me that the law should be amended by means of a novel process?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u16	I'm sorry, but you're way ahead of the facts right now. We now have that board agreement. I ask the Minister if she can take that into account in the general measures of governance, and now you ask me to reflect on what those general measures would be, and on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u17	Well, I don't know the board agreement. You seem to know it, because you already think it needs to be incorporated into it. Wouldn't it be better to know the facts first and to know what's in the governance agreement and how it fits together before deciding on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u18	I am very pleased with the administrative agreement to give municipalities the position they deserve. In the end, for building supervision, the municipality is the competent authority. I am pleased that this is confirmed in an administrative agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u19	For once, but really finalizing, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u20	I understand Mr Koerhuis' intention, but if the content of such an administrative agreement does not correspond to legislation, it could lead to all sorts of complex procedures when the law enters into force. Wouldn't it be better to look first at the alignment between the administrative agreement and the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u21	Okay, I'd like to go a little further. The First Chamber is now the first move. After that, the Minister is in charge of the general measures of governance. If it is necessary or if something goes wrong somewhere, I am always happy to look at it with Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u22	Good. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Smeulders, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, this is a bit of a weird debate. A year and a half ago, a law was passed here that is still in the Upper House. Actually, the First Chamber is up and not us as Lower House. Nevertheless, in the view of GroenLinks, it is good that we are talking today about building supervision, because there are a lot of problems at the moment. Look at the parking garages that collapsed; they were just mentioned. Look at the very critical report from the Security Research Council. Look at the signals from the municipalities that, while waiting for the new route, for example, no longer take on new people because they have a different role. That's undesirable. GroenLinks voted against the bill last year. This does not mean that we do not support the objectives. We did. It is also a good thing to strengthen the position of consumers. However, due to recent developments and the OVV report, we are less convinced that it is a smart idea to privatise the building control or to allow more private hands. The parties who voted against then were certainly not alone in this. Many experts, Mrs Beckerman, just quoted someone, felt the same way. The Association of Dutch Municipalities was also very critical. In this respect, it is a good thing that there seems to be an administrative agreement now. But it is also a little strange that we are having this debate now. An hour ago, in a letter with a few bullets, the Minister indicated what was about in the administration agreement. My group still has a lot of questions about this. Some of them I would like to put to the Minister. Can the Minister go into these arrangements in more detail? We want to know exactly what the role of the municipalities is going to be with this new law. How does the Minister guarantee that municipalities are really equipped with their new responsibility? We are wondering whether this is also the subject of the inter-ruption debate on whether it is also laid down in a law. How is this to be arranged, because an administrative agreement can be unilaterally terminated. The Minister also states that there is no question of privatisation of the construction supervision, I suspect that this will be said immediately, so I would just like to say it myself, but that there is public-private supervision in the new law. Can the Minister explain again how this is going to relate to each other? Are these private quality assurance agencies, for example, individuals or organisations? How is their independence guaranteed? How's the certification coming? So we still have a lot of questions. I can just imagine them living in the First Chamber, too. And, as I have just said, the First Chamber still has to decide. One question from my group, which has just been referred to less, is: how exactly is this entry into force going? Suppose the First Chamber would agree; will it apply immediately to everything or will it start first with certain categories? And how, for example, will additional categories be added? Does Parliament, the parliament, have anything to say about this, or is that just a matter for the minister himself? We would be less in favour of that, because in our view it really needs to be shown that it works before you start taking next steps. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that GroenLinks still has a lot of concerns, but above all has a lot of questions about building supervision, about the law ahead and about the governance agreement that apparently has come to an end today. The Minister must convince us here, but above all the First Chamber because it is about it, that this bill really achieves the objectives of the law, which I believe are widely endorsed, and that the construction supervision is really not left to the market. After all, it must not be the case that the butcher is going to judge his own meat. I'm not the only one using this metaphor. Unfortunately, with the real butcher, the NVWA, we have not seen any good examples of this. So before you start...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Oh, yet another interruption, by Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u25	I welcome the questions put by Mr Smeulders and I look forward to the answer. They're good questions. Mr Smeulders talks about building safety. That is important, but there is something else important, something on which we have recently tabled a motion together. That's the sustainability statement. In order to be able to give real gas on the housing market and to give the local aldermen the space to give good gas, the aldermen also need support in building supervision. Does Mr Smeulders also agree with the purpose of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u26	I am also pleased with Mr Koerhuis' question. We're all so happy today. I don't think the combination of "gas" and the sustainability of the housing stock is very happy, but well, let's just say that the VVD comes a long way. It's nice that we filed a motion together the other day. Of course, it would be very nice if a new system could contribute to sustainability. The questions I have just asked are precisely this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you. Mr Ronnes has the floor on behalf of the Christian Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A new system for building control in the Netherlands has been under way for years. At the heart of the matter is the need for building partners to regulate quality assurance themselves in the future and for liability to be clearly regulated. Here's what I'm gonna do. The Bill Quality Assurance for Building has been in place for a long time after the House of Representatives has passed this law. The First Chamber was critical in its handling of the law. At the request of the Minister, the vote was held there. And now that the First Chamber is waiting for this debate, it has informed us that so far, despite the need to improve supervision in the construction sector, it is not being dealt with. Minister, when are you taking charge here? Meanwhile, we're seeing real physical building problems. A collapsed car park in Eindhoven is a living example of this. This calls for a clear answer from the Minister to the question: how to proceed with the legislative proposal? The fact that there is a direct link between these two aspects is also confirmed by the Security Research Council. In their view, the causes of the collapse of the parking garage at Eindhoven Airport are directly linked to the Bill Quality Assurance for Building. Cabinet and OVV are on the same page in terms of problem analysis. In summary, the problem analysis is: there is a lack of learning capacity in the construction sector, there is fragmentation of the construction process, there is a diffuse responsibility distribution, there is a lack of internal quality management among building parties and there is pressure on building quality through a strong focus on the lowest price. Do all interested parties recognise this analysis? Can the Minister give an idea of what the construction sector is now thinking about this analysis? We also have the question to the Minister about the status of the governance agreement with the UNG. Is it there or not? It's time for the Secretary of State to cut the buttons. We must not repeat the discussion we have had in the House of Representatives. There has been a loss of valuable time and the First Chamber is called upon, at least if the Minister does not opt for a novelle, an improvement or a supplement to the bill in order to respond to the criticism from the First Chamber. What steps can we expect from the Minister? How does the Minister proceed with this file? The OVV also sees that there has been a vacuum in the supervisory role of the municipality, because municipalities have no clarity about the progress of this bill. For the CDA, it is clear that the existing system has too many shortcomings and that the future of the system needs to be clarified quickly. Locking up. On 27 May 2017, the parking garage of Eindhoven Airport collapsed. That wasn't the first but probably not the last. That gives a great sense of insecurity. Soon it turned out that the accident wasn't on its own. The problem is bigger than the incident in Eindhoven. The CDA considers it very important that safety risks of construction projects are well controlled. Building quality, safety and liability must be well guaranteed. There can be no doubt about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u29	An interruption by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u30	I am very pleased with Mr Ronnes' last sentence, that it is important that there should be no debate on liability. I am curious, however, how Mr Ronnes looks at the comments made by Bouwend Nederland that they do not really want that liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u31	At the time, we had a very wide-ranging debate on the law as it stands. An important discussion was held on the liability of contractors dealing with professional clients. That is a point that the CDA raised in the debate at the time, and we still support it, but we have not been able to obtain a majority in this Chamber for that point. Furthermore, we see the law as it is, as a step in the right direction, to improve the security of the building quality and the risks and liabilities inherent in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u32	In doing so, Mr Ronnes says that it is fine that liability is regulated in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u33	We have agreed to the law as it stands, so it is clear that we are behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u34	Thank you. Mr Kops, on behalf of the Freedom Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In May last year a parking garage collapsed in Eindhoven, a month before completion. The Security Research Council concludes that there was a design flaw in the floors. The plates were turned a quarter stroke, but the foundation could not handle that. According to the OVV, the debt lies with construction company BAM, which has wanted to perform too quickly and under financial pressure. The OVV also concludes that safety has been underestimated for years by construction in the Netherlands. The sector mainly opts for the lowest price and does not learn from previous accidents. According to the OVV, after an accident, construction companies are more concerned with the transfer of debt than with improving safety. That's very serious. And then the letter came from the minister, and I don't quite understand it. She wrote in her letter in response to this debate that the municipality would continue to be responsible for monitoring compliance with the construction regulations. Privatisation of building supervision is not at issue. In view of the accidents of the past, public oversight remains indispensable, according to the Minister. That sounds good, of course. That's how it's gotta be. However, it is strange, because how does it comply with the quality assurance bill for building? In the First Chamber, the votes were held in July 2017. That law introduces an independent and professional quality assurance officer to oversee the construction work. Whether construction projects then comply with all the requirements is assessed by a quality assurance provider appointed by the construction itself and paid for. It's just the butcher who approves his own flesh. That is contrary to the Minister's letter in which she writes that privatisation is not on the agenda. Will the Minister amend the bill or withdraw the proposal? What's she gonna do? Construction underestimates security, according to the OVV, but the minister actually does so just as well. We are dealing here with a minister who talks a lot, talks a lot and meets a lot, but actually does little. What exactly is going to happen? No one who remembers. Meanwhile, the incidents are piling up. A few days ago a garage was closed in Zoetermeer because of a concrete plate on the roof, which may cause the roof to collapse. Local authorities too now want to clarify their supervisory role. The uncertainty that exists today does not improve the quality of the building, on the contrary, and we simply cannot have that, especially at a time when so much needs to be built up. As far as PVV is concerned, security in the built environment remains at the heart of the government. Safety must not be left to market players who are just busy scoring projects at the lowest price. Building supervision should not be left to a commercial party that is paid by the client of the construction project. That is a question for problems, especially in the construction sector where there is inability to learn, according to Rob Nijsse, building professor at TU Delft. Look at all these incidents, the building world sucks, he says. The municipalities, what's the situation now? There's a huge shortage of project leaders, planet economists and advisors. But also to supervisors. Are they sure they're up to construction control? No, because three-quarters of municipal supervisors say there's not enough time to check all construction projects. What is the Minister going to do about it now? Meanwhile, the minister focuses on so-called flying brigades, a flexible group of officials from the Amsterdam region who are flown out to municipalities. Are these officials also going to be involved in building supervision? How many officials are involved here, and is that enough to manage construction control? Finally, Mr President. It is high time for the Minister to stop endless meetings, stop shifting responsibilities, ensure adequate housing and ensure proper building supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs, on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. It's not nice to have to tell your client that his grant is off. In addition to the examples already mentioned by my colleagues, I would like to share with you an example from my own practice. A contractor who uses a slightly different insulation material and a glass supplier who does not supply HR++ glass but HR+ glass. Then a property doesn't have a label A but label B. Well, swing by your subsidy but that's just really bad, because if you buy a property or have a building remodeled, you want to make sure that it's safe, that you get what you asked for and what you paid for. On vacuum cleaners you get a warranty, we say in politics once again, but in construction the warranty applies up to the front door, because after the short round of delivery, the contractor has no responsibility whatsoever. New buildings are sometimes finished with up to 37 delivery defects and the cost of failure in construction is enormous. Safety in construction remains to be seen. I do not think I need to repeat all the stories of colleagues. In conclusion, the quality in the construction must be increased. And that can also be done by giving the builder more responsibility and allowing him to carry it for a longer period of time and by organising better insight into the built and its quality through better reporting during construction. The evaluation report of the Institute for Building Quality on pilot projects last month shows that it can be done. The new way of working gets used to quickly. The study clearly shows that municipalities, contractors, quality assurance agencies and clients themselves indicate that the quality of the final result is better than for regular construction projects. And that is exactly the purpose of this bill. In addition, costs are also saved. Although quality assurance itself entails costs for the client, other costs will generally decrease. Less expense by way of a fee discount, less problems during construction, fewer delivery defects, fewer risks and therefore a lower insurance premium. And a shorter construction process. I am not talking about longer-term effects. A very large part of the construction is standard. Offices and homes are often not revolutionary in design. Those normal offices and homes should simply be able to be built risk-free and error-free. Standardisation, industrialisation and innovation must ensure faster, smarter, cheaper, more sustainable, circular and better building. The report also highlights some essential points. There must be a very clear division of roles. The quality assurance officer who controls the builder must also be properly checked himself, and there are still concerns about that. Are there sufficient experts to supervise what is actually built? And how do we ensure their independence, I ask the Minister. There are still many questions about the role of the municipality, as in the past. Now that an administrative agreement has been signed, the hope is that many of these questions can be taken away. We ask the Minister: is there now any clarity as to how the municipal authority remains competent and how it can play this role properly? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to make a link with the issue of security. The report following the collapse of the parking garage at Eindhoven Airport draws a number of conclusions and makes recommendations. Recommendations that include insufficient attention to safety and quality in construction, including through a strong focus on price and lack of communication. The Minister states that she agrees with them and that this is precisely why a legislative proposal on quality assurance for construction is needed. D66 considers that this bill can be an answer to this challenge and asks the Minister if it can reflect on this. It is precisely because of the security, because of the large construction plan, the climate forecast and the transition to a circular economy that D66 would like to see an agreement with the municipalities and very soon a treatment in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u38	Thank you. Exactly in speaking time. Finally, Mr Nijboer has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u39	Mr. Chairman. There are three problems in construction that I would like to draw attention to. The first is quality. In Eindhoven a parking garage collapses, in Groningen balconies of rental homes fall down, in your own ministry, minister people cannot enter certain rooms, should people believe with 100 or 120 men standing down the hall and then it was full, because it was not safe enough. If you walk a little further, to The Hague Centraal, it is sometimes when the wind is 7 or wind force 6, with ribbons cut off, because then whole plates threaten to sail down, and it is unsafe for the people who go to the station. In short, that is not in order. The second problem is that it is quite expensive to build in the Netherlands. Everyone who lives in a border region knows that. Whether you're going to Belgium or Germany, it's much cheaper there. This is also due to a lack of innovation and also because builders are not liable for what they deliver. Mrs Van Eijs mentioned 37 defects. That's just here. Well, that's not common; a house is just supposed to satisfy. I understand that if there are thousands of things, some things can go wrong. Yes, if you can pass it on to the one who is finally happy to be able to move into his home, as it is now arranged in the Netherlands, then that is not well arranged. A third problem now is that the building supervision is completely unclear, because the Chamber has passed that law a long time ago, and the Upper Chamber keeps it. There are problems, I just mentioned a few. Balconies fall down, a parking garage is unsafe, even the new-fashioned Department of the Interior, which deals with it, has problems. And it's unclear who's gonna be in charge and have to keep checks. Yeah, that's a bad thing. So these three issues really need to be dealt with in the legislation we have dealt with here. Let me start with liability, innovation and costs. It's just helping to improve the bill that we've dealt with here. A motion for this was tabled by Mr Van der Linde and Mr De Vries on recognized and widely used construction methods. The intention of this was the following. If you acknowledge that, as with cars... A lot went wrong there, too. There are also many things that are often used in cars: mass production. It could get cheaper. If you acknowledge that in advance, you can apply it a lot. That's better for everyone. It makes homes more affordable and you have a system that works well. The Minister explained that motion a little bit narrowly. I ask her to explain this motion as we intended it, namely that it is a bit off the ground and that the objective is pursued. Then there's the second problem. The third is that we need clarity, but we need the First Chamber for that. The second main problem is supervision. It's kind of hard to strike a balance there. On the one hand, when private parties are active, they are also responsible for security. We can't check every broccoli in horticulture. We can't check every car individually. It is up to the producers to do so themselves. As a government, you will then sample whether too many pesticides are being used and whether the cars comply. The question is whether the government will soon have enough expertise and weight, as well as enough people, to fulfil this function. I think it is important to say that, if you are responsible yourself, you must also ensure that the place is safe and that you hold the builders more responsible for it. I don't think that's such a crazy idea at all. That also works in other sectors. But I do think it's a bad idea for the government's supervision to be stripped of. We can see that in other inspections. The NVWA has problems, other inspections have problems and we have seen how cars have gone wrong in the European Union. That's what I'm worried about. Then I think: does the public leg, do the municipalities have a position that is strong enough to fill that out? I would like a response from the Minister, because that is crucial for the PvdA Group. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u40	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. I shall suspend the sitting for ten minutes, and the reply of the government will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u41	We will continue with the reply from the government in the debate on the progress of building supervision. I call the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can talk about this today. One of my objectives as responsible minister is to work on improving the quality of construction and building safety. I agree with everyone who said in the first term: people, owners, users must be able to trust that a building meets the quality requirements and that it can be put into use safely. This is now important and this becomes all the more important given the task of building production, sustainability and so on. The quality of the building and the safety of the building must also be at the heart of the project. We have all taken note of the report of the Safety Research Council following the collapse of a parking garage in Eindhoven. Mrs Van Eijs and others referred to it. For me, that report also underlines the need for action. I would like to mention the Council's main conclusions. There is a diffuse division of responsibility within construction, partly due to fragmentation in the construction process. There is a lack of internal quality management among building parties. There is pressure on building quality due to a strong focus on the lowest price. I have already informed the Chamber that I share the conclusions of the OVV and that they are closely in line with the quality assurance bill for building, which lies in the Upper Chamber. I have also announced a number of actions in response to the report. I announced that an environmental safety coordinator would be required on the site. I asked the municipalities to check the fire safety of facade panels, after I had already asked them to analyse the wide-plate floors in the municipality on the basis of a roadmap drawn up by the Ministry. This report by the OVV reiterates the importance of clarifying in the short term the quality assurance system and the entry into force of the new system. Mr. Chairman. The bill argues to improve the quality of construction. It introduces a new quality assurance system with expert and independent auditors operating under public supervision. I see that as a step forward, to quote Mr Nijboer. It's a mixed system with public oversight as a basis. We are also facing increasing complexity in construction. The structures and techniques used are complex. It's important that supervision can handle it. Expert and independent quality assurance officers are needed to pre-check the quality during construction on the site by means of a public independent administrative body, the admission organisation, which supervises the system. The municipality of... that is really very important.. retains the position of competent authority to check for compliance with the Building Decision. In fact, the proposal for more supervision under the wings of the municipality is seen as competent authority. In addition, the new system strengthens the liability of building parties. Mr Smeulders, among others, pointed this out. That too is very important. With these measures, we will have a situation where there is a clear division of responsibility between market players and competent authority, and where there will be more responsibility for building quality among the parties that actually implement the construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u43	Let me get this straight. What I have not yet been able to derive from the Minister's words is how to translate that supervision. Does the Minister refer to that supervision when it speaks of enforcement? As far as I can see, the law specifically provides that the municipality has the possibility to maintain. Does she see that as an element of public oversight?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u44	It is a question of responsibility at the front, including for the system, and indeed at the back for maintaining it. I sometimes compare it with the apk tests, because that system is actually similar. At the apk you have a certain goal for quality and safety. You have a public-private system. You have a tester. It is private in this case, but it does review legal requirements that have been adopted by the public. You're also in charge of the tester again. That's the admissions agency I just mentioned. That's at the National Road Traffic Service. You keep system surveillance by means of random checks. And you do have enforcement. In this case, these are the municipalities. Of course, that's different with the cock, because that's where the police are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u45	I would like to continue on this point, because it is indeed true that the municipality can say afterwards: how it was built is not good. But does the Minister agree with me that it would actually be better if the municipality could also say in the interim, for example after an inspection at the construction site, 'this is not going well, adjust it'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u46	I would like to talk a little more in detail about how I see the role of the municipalities. I think it is very important that the municipality is in position at the right moments. I shall come back to that in a moment if Mr Smeulders agrees. I see him nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u47	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u48	I just wanted to say a few things about what's happened lately. You all know that a great deal has happened recently, of course, precisely in order to allow us to talk about this today. My aim would be to say in advance that after this consultation the First Chamber may decide to continue the examination of the bill so that, in the coming period, all the parties involved can continue to work on its entry into force. And I will say this once again: precisely in view of the findings of the OVV report, I think it is really urgent to make those changes to quality assurance and to ensure the quality of construction and the safety of buildings in the longer term. I would like to make one more point. In June of this year, I informed the First Chamber about the state of play of the bill. At that time I also addressed the questions that had arisen concerning the interpretation of some of the amendments tabled by the House of Representatives. That letter led to some commotion among the municipalities. You are probably aware of this because the municipalities created the impression that I was actually ahead of the discussions with the municipalities about making these administrative arrangements. I'm sure you all know that. These agreements are of course important, because, as has been said, the municipality is the competent authority in the implementation of the system. At that time, I informed the UNG that there will be an agreement only after we have mutual agreements and once we have ratified them in an administrative agreement. That is what we, BZK, the VNG and the municipalities, have been working very hard on over the past few months to make sure that we are in complete agreement. I did indeed send you a short note on this subject today at the request of Mrs Beckerman. I would point out that we are very far. My expectation is that we will have formally endorsed this in the short term, but the UNG is continuing its own path. And I respect that. So it is only when it has been ratified by the VNG that I can inform the Chamber. But again, that looks really good. Then it is important for you to know that we have included a number of issues in these agreements with the municipalities: a clear explanation of the further development of the role of the municipalities as competent authority in the new system and a further elaboration of the information position of municipalities. This makes it clear how they can exercise their enforcement powers. It also includes the entry into force, which is foreseen at the same time as the Environment Act, namely from 1 January 2021. It also states that there must be sufficient confidence that the system will lead to better construction quality at acceptable cost and that pilot projects will show that there are no bottlenecks. This means that there must be no insurmountable bottlenecks before entry into force, because of course you will always encounter something. Finally, it includes that the municipalities are supported by me in their implementation work. This is both about knowledge and about financial support. In fact, these are all points on which I have responded to the points raised by the municipalities, not only from the municipalities, but also from the market players such as the Eigen Huis Association. Then public oversight. I come now to Mr Smeulders. I think that the agreements with the municipality show how much I value the role of the municipalities and the importance of public oversight. Public supervision by municipalities is and remains indispensable in the new system. To those who frame that this is about privatising construction supervision, I would like to say that this is not right. That is not what this system is intended to do. The legislative proposal does change the role of the competent authority in the licensing process, but the competent authority will continue to monitor compliance with the building regulations. The municipality may use its enforcement powers in a manner deemed appropriate by the municipality in the specific case. The municipality must then be able to act on the basis of signals from, for example, the quality assurance agencies or third parties, but the municipality can also perceive itself. She can also judge and intervene on her own. In order to fulfil this role properly, the information position of the municipality is ensured in two ways. Maybe it's okay if I finish this for a while, although of course I see two members at the interrupting microphone. First, through the obligation for the holder of the authorisation to attach a risk assessment to the application. Secondly, through the obligation for the marketing authorisation holder to submit a dossier to the municipality at the time of preparation, containing information on a number of components of the building and the statement by the quality assurance officer that, in his opinion, the construction regulations are being complied with. That quality assurance officer therefore checks, during the construction process, whether it is in conformity with the construction regulations, on the basis of the Building Decision................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ All this information can be used by the municipality as a competent authority to decide whether the building complies with the building regulations and can be put into service. We will test that in pilot projects. These have to tell us if there are any bottlenecks. If they're soluble, they need to be solved. If they're insoluble, then we need to rethink them. Pilot projects have already been carried out. The experience of these pilot projects has been taken into account in the agreements we have now reached. They were also described in an evaluation that I sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u49	Thank you to the Minister for replying. This is going to be very tight, so I'd like to ask you about it. Does it mean that a municipality can supervise the construction work during construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u50	Yes. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u51	I'm pleased with that answer. Does it also mean that the municipality could stop construction in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u52	Sure. If there are serious reasons for this or if there are concerns, then the municipality can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u53	From the Chamber there was a lot of criticism of privatisation, not only now but also a few years ago. The minister's trying to solve that by saying it's not privatisation, it's just private. You can change the word, but the criticism remains as far as I'm concerned. I actually want to ask a pretty simple question. Why does such a large proportion become private, while so many parties, including the OFW, warn about the culture in construction that would not focus on safety? Why choose such a large private part of this system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mrs Beckerman and I do not agree on one point. That could be quite possible, as it turns out at some point. Firstly, it is not privatisation, because the municipality remains the competent authority. Secondly, Mrs Beckerman and I fully agree on this point, and I would like the building parties to have greater responsibility and responsibility for their work. That is the purpose of this system. I think that's what Mrs Beckerman really wants. And yes, part of the system is that we are also going to use the knowledge and expertise of recognised quality testers. They could come out of the market, that's right. But that hasn't made the entire system private. I believe that the system, also from a public perspective, is becoming much more solid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u55	No one has said that the whole system is being private or privatised. There are only wide concerns about that private part. There are actually two solutions to this poor building culture. You want to give them even more responsibility. Another solution would be to force them much more through a much more solid public oversight. I'm gonna ask you again. The PhD candidate Annalies Outhuijse has done research in other countries where a larger proportion is private and she says that this leads to a lot of commercial pressure from clients and a tendency to reduce costs, which can affect quality. Why is that part left to the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u56	The ultimate authority is the municipality. So the system is public and that's what we decide with each other. The responsibility of the builder becomes more explicit. It's gonna be a lot bigger than she is now. That is why I do not fear what Mrs Beckerman fears. I think the opposite is happening: precisely because the person himself is liable, he has a great deal of interest in ensuring that the quality assurance officer does his job very well, otherwise he himself will suffer from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u57	Mr Nijboer would like to interrupt on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u58	Of course, it is the quality of the people who inspect it, whether they work at the municipality or at those companies. How does the Minister make that work? Because with energy labels we have that too and we just have to be honest about that: for €2 you get a label that just doesn't mean anything in practice. We can't do that with the safety of the building. How does the Minister ensure that that doesn't happen here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u59	That is not possible with the safety of construction. This should not be possible in Mr Nijboer's example either, and this cannot be done, for example, in the case of an aid scheme. That is why it is good that we are now doing these pilot projects and testing the system. It's a good thing we're meeting a system. It is good that there will be a ZBO responsible for that system and that will be checked on it. There are just legal requirements and there is an admission organisation that supervises the testers. I fully agree with Mr Nijboer that we need to be sure that it is going well, and I think it is being secured in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u60	It's about how it's done. With these energy labels it is also true on paper, but in practice it is really wrong. That's not what we're talking about today, but it really has to be different. That is a matter of concern here. It's fine that it's being tried with these pilot projects, but there's not one jubilee story that comes out in the vein of everything going well and that we can let it go on like this. There's gonna be a lot of worries and problems. That is a danger to me when it comes to building buildings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u61	Again, you have to learn from that too. That is why I am actually pleased that we can make the agreement to improve it through these pilot projects. We should not, indeed, accept any shortcomings that have been identified, but we should ensure that, thanks to these pilot projects in the system, if it were to enter into force completely in 2021, we have much better anchored it. Because what Mr Nijboer is sketching, I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u62	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u63	Yeah, sure. In fact, I would like to summarize my brief introduction under the motto that doing nothing is simply not an option. It's too important for that. I also think we can see that you have mentioned a number of examples, and I will come back to them in a few answers to questions that are too often going wrong now. And we can't let that go. That would be really irresponsible. I am very pleased that I am now finalising this governance agreement with the VNG. I believe that this will provide a basis for a system that will also be tested in practice, so that we can do the implementation properly and responsibly. It is a coherent package of measures that we can then agree with the municipalities, which should lead to a genuinely responsible introduction. I believe that it is balanced and effective and that it will be able to contribute in the future to optimum building quality and a future-proof sector. Then a number of more specific questions have been asked. Mrs Beckerman asked: does the Minister agree with me that public supervision is needed? That's what we were actually talking about during the interruption. But she also made a link with the report of the OVV in her term. I have just said that I share the view of the OVV that it is important to raise quality awareness in the sector, that at the moment the burden of proof is insufficient and that public supervision is indispensable. And the recommendations of the OVV can actually be answered by the introduction of this system. For example, the OVV says that there must be systematic risk management and there must be professional contradiction. The expert quality assurance officer is very important. The contractor's liability will be tightened. So the bill in its entirety actually offers a package of measures to improve the building quality. And that, I think, is exactly what the Research Council is pointing out. Mrs Beckerman also says that, of course, it is important to protect the consumer. I just said, things are going wrong in the Netherlands. That is worrying and we cannot allow that to happen. I would like to point out that, of course, a lot is going very well in the construction industry in general. But it can be done better, even for the consumer, perhaps even for the consumer. Mrs Beckerman also referred to amendments adopted in the Chamber. They're included in the bill. I informed the First Chamber about this in the summer of this year. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koerhuis had a number of specific questions. Among other things, he asked about the parking garage in Zoetermeer which is closed this week. I understand that this has happened preventively. The municipality of Zoetermeer has reported after a first survey that there is no danger of collapse, but they still want to do further research. That investigation needs to tell us exactly what caused the bending of that rooftop. That is the information I can give to Mr Koerhuis at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you. It's concrete floors again, though. Would the Minister at least keep the Chamber informed if there is more clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u65	I'd always like to keep the Chamber informed if the Chamber so wishes. If something like this happens, I want to know right away if there's a connection. There doesn't seem to be any connection yet. There's a different problem every time. But since Mr Koerhuis appreciates that, I will inform him about it. Let's make a deal. I think we've already had a lot of exchanges on the governance agreement. Mr Koerhuis said a little more specifically that the municipalities have a legal task to supervise. He actually wants an investigation, at least that was his suggestion. Municipalities act, observe, judge, intervene. They do this on the basis of risk-driven supervision. And the provinces actually end second-line surveillance. In all that supervision, of municipalities, provinces, it is of course always important that someone, for example the owner of the building, is not only called upon, but that he then also demonstrates to the municipality that the defect is remedied. That is the task of the municipalities. In my opinion, they're just doing that job. So I don't see a need for a wide-ranging investigation. I do think that when the new bill comes into force, there will also be a new flow of information, which will be very helpful. In that case, the permit application will be accompanied by an assessment of the risks of the construction. Then comes the quality assurance officer, who will inform the municipality during the construction of the defects he has found. There will be a statement to be given by the quality assurance officer at the time of completion. And finally, at the ready announcement, there will be a file containing all the information that makes it clear that the building complies with the construction regulations. Anyway, that's the situation if the new law came into force. Mr Koerhuis also asked for an inventory of the wide-plate floors and facade panels. I have asked the municipalities in relation to the facade panels to take action. Mr Koerhuis mentioned this. They must do so now and then they will inform me. Here too, as I have also said to the municipalities, the municipalities are ultimately the competent authority, so the most important thing is that municipalities also inform their municipal councils. The responsible minister has no second-line supervisory powers since 2012. There was once a VROM inspection, but it was abolished in 2012. So I cannot know about every building, and I do not need to know exactly what the state of affairs is. This responsibility lies very clearly with the municipalities. So if the Chamber wants to know more, I'm a bit of a pass-through for the municipalities. I think it would be better to provide the Chamber with information in a qualitative sense. This can be done by a request from the Dutch Association for Construction and Housing Supervision or from its members. This could perhaps give us a qualitative picture of what we can also draw policy conclusions from. From my perspective, I think this works better than sending incidents. I'm mostly interested in an overall image. And I think it is very important for the municipalities to be able to do their job properly. Mr Smeulders has asked some questions about the municipalities and the system that have already been answered. He also asked whether the agreements in the administrative agreement should be secured by law. These agreements are based on a common explanation, a common vision, you could call it, on the role of the municipalities as competent authority and on the information that the municipalities need. Further rules on this will be included in the Building Decision and the Quality Assurance Bill, which provides a basis for this. Other agreements concern implementation, deadline and pilot projects. They do not need to be incorporated into the law; those are just working arrangements, you might say. However, the detailed rules for the provision of information will be incorporated into the Building Decision. The entry into force, which Mr Smeulders also asked for, is taking place in stages. First, the rules on quality assurance instruments and the admission organisation come into force. If sufficient quality assurance instruments are allowed, the new authorisation rules will enter into force. We are therefore following a step-by-step approach. We begin with the introduction of the simple construction system, the so-called 'executive class I'. The contractor's liability will also enter into force. There is therefore a phased entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u66	I believe that there is broad political support for this liability. I would therefore be very sorry if this liability for the more difficult buildings did not come into effect at a later date. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u67	If the system as a whole is in place, liability has also entered into full force. Mr Smeulders asked whether the law would come into force at once. That is not the case, because we are building it up, also through the agreements that have now been made with the UNG. The law thus enters into force in stages. We start with the simple constructions. This includes the immediate entry into force of liability. But the aim is, of course, to strengthen liability across the board, for all contractors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u68	I understand that goal. I would only regret it if liability for other buildings could not go down immediately, precisely because there is such a broad support for it. I do not necessarily need an answer to that now, but I would nevertheless like to mention as a point that is being considered whether that would be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u69	Yes, I have heard Mr Smeulders correctly on that point. Mr. Ronnes took a little less direction than he would like to see. In fact, I have tried to achieve a process through which we can take the right steps with each other. That is why I consider the governance agreement with the VNG to be very important. I hope that, after this debate, the First Chamber will see reason to continue the examination of the legislative proposal. That is what my actions of recent times are aimed at, including consultation with other parties, so that we can now clarify this request as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u70	However, a question to the Minister. Has the Minister considered following a novel procedure with all the information that is now on the table? How does she estimate the chance that the law won't make it in the First Chamber? That means we're back to square one. There is every need to bring this law to a successful conclusion, in order to improve quality assurance. So what about the consideration of the procedure to be followed? What consideration has the Minister made in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u71	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u72	As I have interpreted it, an important reason was that the vote in the First Chamber was held that there were still many questions from parties closely involved. Of course, the VNG was one of them, but there were others. I also mentioned the Association Eigen Huis. So I have so far seen no reason to want to change anything in the law as such. It was mainly about the method of introduction, the arrangements with municipalities, the explanation. That is what I have done through the implementation of the administrative agreement. That still leaves me within the framework of the law. I think that the debate we are having today also provides clarification for the Upper House on a number of points in order to assess whether they wish to continue. But of course I have to wait and see and we must also respect here that the First Chamber has its own responsibility. But I have not yet seen any reason to say that this leads to an amendment of the law as it stands. That's what's really in the explanation and the entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u73	Thank you. You can continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u74	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'll see if I left any questions on Mr Ronnes' behalf. Mr Ronnes, of course, also asked about the conclusions that we all draw from the problem analysis of the Security Research Council. I know that when the report was published, the construction sector responded. They also indicated, very important of course, through Bouwend Nederland that they support the recommendations. I think that is a very good thing. I also intend to discuss this with the construction sector at the beginning of next year. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be with Mr Kops of the PVV. He also asked about the relationship between the municipality and the quality assurance officer. I've just said a few things about that. Maybe I can emphasise in his direction that the quality assurance officer should be competent, independent and objective and, on the basis of an authorised assessment methodology, assess whether the building is also in conformity with the construction regulations. If this is not the case, it will be reported to the municipality. The monitoring of compliance and enforcement is and remains the responsibility of the municipality. I would therefore like to reassure Mr Kops on that point. He also asked how the civil servants in those flying brigades he was talking about are going to deal with that construction supervision. For my part, there are eight of those brigades. If Mr Kops appreciates it, I can find out exactly how much administrative capacity is involved. It's eight brigades. They are also involved in speeding up the granting of licences, and this includes a quality test. So there is indeed an involvement. I think I have answered some of Mrs Van Eijs's questions. Her questions were also about the municipality and about the report of the OVV. I think I have answered her questions sufficiently. Oh, Mrs Van Eijs does not; very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u75	I don't think so. I call Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u76	I want to hear everything I want to hear the first time, of course. It was about the independence of the quality assurance officer. The Minister went rather quickly and said: if not, it will be reported. Of course, that would be very nice, but I wonder how it works in practice if such a quality assurance officer is too tempted to rush or intimidated by the contractor. Then how do we know for sure that such a quality assurance officer keeps his foot rigid and just that he might be making some unfavorable judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u77	Because there's also monitoring of the tester. That is actually the system of supervision. Secondly, I expect that when such a tester makes a mistake, or if the client or the municipality is not at all satisfied with such a tester, that leads to him not being asked for that kind of work anymore. There is therefore supervision by the system itself of the assignment that such a quality assurance agent has. The municipality also sees, of course, whether quality is being delivered. So there's monitoring of the testers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u78	The survey, from which the colleague of the SP also quoted, showed that municipalities have great difficulty in finding expert people, hence also the flying brigade. D66 welcomes the increased monitoring of what is actually being built on the construction site. The question is, which people are going to do that? Are there enough people trained or skilled enough to actually do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u79	That is a very good point from Mrs Van Eijs. She makes that point more often in relation to building and living. In general, there is a great demand for people with this knowledge and expertise in the municipalities, but also among contractors and developers. There are already parties doing this type of work and offering it. It is important that we work together to ensure that there is sufficient supply. In other words, people do training that enables them to carry out these kinds of functions. It's a job guarantee at the front when you start training. But I totally agree that this is a concern. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mr Nijboer's questions. He asked about the motion which sees the implementation of recognized measures, as the Chamber intended. I've informed the Chamber about that. I simply agree with Mr Nijboer. I want to carry out that motion and apply it generously. I think whatever the motion is trying to do is helping. We agree on the substance. Very practically we are talking about technically approved parts in construction. For example, you already know that a window has been approved in advance. However, it still has to be checked whether the window is used properly, because if it is placed upside down, it is not good. Mr Nijboer may have read that in the letter in which he found it somewhat narrow. I do not believe that this is the case, because we are in complete agreement on the basis. It helps, but there must always be the possibility to check whether it has been properly applied in the context of the structure. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions sufficiently, at least I hope so. I would like to say one more thing to Mr Smeulders. I've been looking at the implementation process. I can promise him that if we follow the trajectory as we see it now, and as I have also discussed it with the VNG, we will phase in the construction works, but by 1 January 2021, and we will also introduce liability in its entirety by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u80	That is the end of the Minister's reply. Is there a need for a second term from the Chamber? That's the case. Then we'll get right on that. First, Mrs Beckerman has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u81	How much time do I have left, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u82	One and a half minutes. The clock's running now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u83	Good, 'cause it looked a little scary for me. Mr. Chairman. I'm not reassured. The problems in construction and supervision are so great, but now it seems to be almost a word game: do we call it 'privatisation', or should we not use the word anymore, because then it is not all that bad? The Minister says that she accepts the OVV's recommendation, but these recommendations are literally on page 87: "The safety net function in the form of public oversight is increasingly disappearing as a result of the plans to achieve privatisation." So we could call that part "private," but okay. That is what the OVV says at the end: "At the same time, the sector has not yet shown itself ready for this change." The SP would like this part to be regulated by the public and that the construction is not itself responsible. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Security Research Council notes that the many security incidents and the lack of lessons learned by the construction sector show that this sector cannot be without public oversight;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the privatisation in building supervision from the Quality Assurance for Construction Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28325-183]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr. Chairman. Not only is there something wrong with building supervision; there is a great deal wrong with supervision in many sectors. The supervision is too often a concrete life jacket: on paper it all fits, but in practice you drown. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis for his second term. He speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not only am I very pleased with the governance agreement; more people in this Chamber are. We therefore hope that the Minister will take this into account in the further legislative process. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Association of Dutch Municipalities has reached a (concept) administrative agreement on the Quality Assurance for Building Act;]] [[calls on the Government to incorporate this administrative agreement into a new reply to the First Chamber and into the decision-making and general measure of the administration by law, if adopted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Koerhuis, Van Eijs, Beckerman, Nijboer, Krol and Bisschop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28325-184]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u87	What I find complicated about this motion is that it is about an administrative agreement that we do not have. Does Mr Koerhuis have the administrative agreement? I would like that to happen before I vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u88	That seems to me to be a good question for the Minister, because the Ministry is at the table at the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u89	This question is passed on to the Minister with the request to respond in the second period. But I see that Mr Ronnes is not satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u90	I think this is weird. A motion is being tabled here requesting that data contained in the administrative agreement be dealt with, while the applicant is not aware of what is contained in that administrative agreement. I think this is a very strange order to deal with these matters. Can the petitioner respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u91	We have, of course, just received a letter from the Minister setting out the main lines of the draft agreement. That's what I'm talking about. I hope the Minister can share the draft agreement with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u92	I think this is very thin ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u93	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u94	Okay. Then you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to mention the two on-going occasional inventories, of problem floors and fire-threatening facades. My colleague Beckerman from the SP and I believe that more needs to be done. We are therefore tabling the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that it is legally sufficient to ask building owners if their buildings are safe; calls on the Government to keep track of the two on-going occasional inventories of problem floors and fire-dangerous facades and to send them to the Chamber for the two planned debates on this subject, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 185 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's still a bit of a weird debate. Actually, the law is in the Upper House. There's a governance agreement that we don't know exactly what's in it. I indicated in the first term that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has concerns and many questions. I have to admit that many of these questions have been answered today, or I actually have to thank the Minister, which is a lot more friendly, but because we do not have that governance agreement, it remains very complicated for us to weigh what it is worth. The Minister said in her reply that she hopes that after today's debate the discussion in the Upper House will continue. That seems to me to be a good thing anyway, because then there will be clarity. I have to admit that I do not quite see what difference today's debate has made, but the governance agreement that has been reached today may make a difference for the Upper House. I therefore wish the First Chamber every success in its further examination and the Minister for Defence there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u97	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u98	I would like to make it even clearer, because it is not just the administrative agreement, but also what we discussed in the debate. It also results from the administrative agreement that the position of municipalities is well anchored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u99	I have only been a Member of Parliament for five months, but I do not quite understand why the First Chamber should not be able to hold that debate itself and why we should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u100	I find that strange, too, under state law. I've said that a number of times. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u101	Okay, you agree on that. Mr Ronnes, on behalf of the CDA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr. Chairman. We see that this law needs a lot of posts to be treated in the Upper House. We only see the administrative agreement as a document that shows that there is now support for municipalities, no more than that. The First Chamber criticized the substance that the law might place too easily all kinds of liability risks on the board of construction companies. That is undesirable, when builders have to deal with professional clients, as we have pointed out before. What answer will the Minister give to the First Chamber if that question comes again? Then there is a second point. It is still a while before this has been introduced for the various categories. What are we gonna do in the meantime? The findings of the OVV are there, as are other signals. I'd like to hear a response. Perhaps there is too little time to do so now, then it can also be written. Are we looking at what we can do in the short term in the current system to address a number of shortcomings? Is there still a situation in which the Minister comes to the Chamber with an improvement or a supplement to the law? Can the situation arise that we are once again debating the law here? When does the Minister think that concrete steps can be taken to bring this law to a successful conclusion? When does she expect us to be told that the law can finally, hopefully, come into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u103	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u104	Mr. Chairman. No motion, but I'd like to give a thought to the Minister and the Chamber. I think, having heard everyone, that we all agree that the problems are great and that the whole system, but also the whole construction, is and is a complex situation. We really think that this bill is a major step forward, and this is also reflected in the pilot projects. The guarantee must be in order, and we must stay on top of that. Expert, independent people, who dare to show their teeth on the construction site, but also dare to bite at abuses, we need very much. For D66, the question remains how we take care of good people, who can bring about the cultural change in the construction that is needed, with the emphasis on quality and not just on price. We think that this bill is a very big step in the right direction. We would therefore like to see this step taken quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u105	Thank you. It appears to me that Mr Nijboer does not need a second term. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Let me take a look at the minister: five minutes suspension. Then we will continue with the answer and with the Minister's opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u106	I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, who will give her opinion on the three motions for resolutions tabled. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few questions have also been asked. I wanted to answer them first, but not after thanking everyone for their input and constructive attitude, which I actually tasted very widely in the Chamber. I think that's very positive. There's still a lot to do. I also realize the particularity of the debate. That's what they just said. Indeed, it is a bill that has already been passed here and which we are talking about again because it is still before us in the First Chamber. So it's a very special situation. In this respect, I would also like to say to Mr Ronnes: I cannot predict exactly how things are going to go. But as I have just said, we must also respect the fact that the First Chamber said at that time that it was not going to vote, at that time on request, I understood, also from the Minister. It is, of course, up to the First Chamber itself to decide what time is good for her to do so. I therefore hope that this debate, as well as the letters I have sent to the Chamber, has given us sufficient clarity. I believe that the governance agreement with the VNG that is in the making could play a role in this. I said it was a concept, but it was already discussed in the Committee on Space, Living and Mobility this morning. Once that is final, it will pass for a final administrative agreement. Once that has been done, I will inform your Chamber, as well as the First Chamber, of this. I hope that, in conjunction with what has been said here today, is sufficient reason for the First Chamber to resume its proceedings. Mr. Chairman. I'll see if I've answered the questions with that. Perhaps I should make one more comment about the system and the quality of the testers. The requirements of the new system for quality assurance are higher than those of the existing system. There are also broader requirements, such as knowledge about sustainability or knowledge about health. This is actually worked out with the parties by decision. This means that we will soon have to deal with quality assurance agencies that are independent, expert and experienced. So they don't work for a construction company. They're independent people and desks. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to Mr Ronnes' question. I'm sorry, because I should have just done that. His question was: what will you report to the First Chamber when it comes to liability? In fact, I would like to refer to the letter of 29 June which I sent to the Upper House on this matter. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The first motion, the one in part No. 183, belonged to Mrs. Beckerman. In the motion it states that it would be a privatisation. My point is: it is not privatisation, also because of the very important role of the municipality as competent authority, and the implementation of the municipality. So I dissuade the motion, and I also disagree with the theorem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u108	I like to have a substantive discussion and not a semantic discussion. We have only taken the word 'privatisation' from the report by the OVV, on which the Minister said: I accept its recommendations. We ask that this part of the law be deleted, then the Minister may call it as she wishes. So I would very much like to ask for a substantive and not a semantic opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u109	It was also meant to be a substantive judgment, but it might have been a short turn of events. Look, it's a public-private system. So for a part there is a role, an important role, for quality testing. But much more important is that the system as such is public and public, and that the municipality holds the main role, both on the front and intermediate side as well as on the back. So I would not like to say that the system is not good because of that part that will be implemented privately. That is why I do not agree with the motion, namely that you should take that part out. Although she does not agree with me on the content, I hope that Mrs Beckerman now finds the judgment more valid. The motion in part No. 184 by Mr Koerhuis and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) I would like to say to Mr Ronnes that I am in favour of the administrative agreement, which is now indeed a concept which I say to Mr Ronnes. I hope that will be final. I'll inform the Chamber about that anyway. In fact, I read in this motion that we will then process it in the further elaboration. That is exactly my intention, so in that respect I could accept the motion if the authors appreciated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u110	Is there any objection to taking over this motion? Mr. Koerhuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u111	No, it's okay. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u112	The Voorhuis-moorhuis c.s. (, No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u113	It is very nice that Mr Koerhuis is happy with that, because he will be less happy with my next judgment. That concerns the motion in part No. 185 by Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Beckerman. He asks for an inventory, and also asks to inform the Chamber. I would like to do all that, but I would point out, and I think that is a bit the underlying idea of the motion, that the municipalities are the competent authority. The municipalities are also responsible for the inventory. And in order to make it as broad as this motion asks, and so to ask it with all the municipalities in the Netherlands, I think it is very far-fetched. I would like to collect a qualitative picture, and I would like to inform the Chamber on specific points. I would, of course, like to enable the Chamber to form a general opinion. I want to do that myself, but I think that the motion goes a long way in that direction. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u114	Indeed, the municipalities are implementing it. We're just asking the minister to get that information from the municipalities, and no more than that. If there are any capacity problems then, I think there are still some specialised agencies out of work pending the law. They could help with that. And in terms of timing, we will have some time, because those two planned debates are still on the table for the time being. So, with this in mind, I would ask the Minister to reconsider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u115	I hope that Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Beckerman agree with me that the municipalities are competent, that we do not want to enter into it, that it is not necessary to make a very large bureaucratic operation with an inventory in all the municipalities in the Netherlands. If I may explain the motion in such a way that it is about getting an adequate understanding of the problem, if she also leaves me the room to inform the Chamber as she sees fit, so not on the basis of such an inventory of everything, then I could get a little more excited about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u116	We're almost there. I understand. It's just that there should be some quantity in it, and some precision. Certainly about the problem floors, because that is not so many cases, we would like to be informed a little more precisely. For example, there is also a website that just keeps track of where these problem floors are located. Then it's really weird that we can find out on that website, but we can't hear it from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u117	Once again, I do not want to enter into the responsibility of the municipalities, and I do not want to impose on everyone to focus on reporting, especially when they need to be concerned with ensuring that it is done in practice. That's what these municipalities need to pay attention to. So that's why I stick to the word "quantitative." Above all, I want to give a qualitative picture, and where this can be done, it can sometimes be very specific about specific cases. If we can agree on this, the vote on the motion can be left to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u118	I see that Mr Koerhuis nods in agreement and notes that the motion in part No. 185 Judgment Chamber has received. This brings us to the end of the debate on the progress of building supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u119	We are going to vote on the motions next Tuesday, 11 December. We can suspend the meeting for dinner break. We'll do it until 6:45.
