ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We begin with the questions from Mrs Beckerman of the SP to the Secretary of State of BZK in the absence of the Minister about the message "Aggression and intimidation: Reports about landlords threatening tenants is increasing."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Aggression and intimidation of landlords towards tenants is increasing. There are almost 2,900 complaints about, among other things, exploitation, intimidation and even aggression of landlords. There are not enough affordable rentals and the water is on the lips of many tenants. Their rights are undermined by temporary contracts or they are not eligible for social housing under strict rules. And then tenants in the free sector have also been declared outlawed, because from this cabinet they are not allowed to go to the Rent Committee. Wrong cottage milkers can do it too often. One today came up with hard numbers. The number of complaints from tenants has been significantly reduced: 317 in Groningen, 531 complaints in Amsterdam, 660 in Utrecht, 401 in The Hague. In Nijmegen the number of complaints exploded: 765 in total. The number of complaints from tenants about threats and intimidation rose here from 5 to 87 in one year. We've all been able to see how Tim Hofman's jaw was broken by a cornered cottage milker. This fighting real estate magnate, Ton Hendriks, literally put someone in the hospital together with his son Rob. It is time for the cabinet itself to hand out a right-wing direct, not literally, but these pawnshops should be hit where it hurts them: in their wallet. What does this cabinet do? Does this cabinet leave tenants in the cold any longer or does it intervene, as aldermen in cities would like? The SP urges the Minister/State Secretary to take concrete action in the short term. Are you willing to give municipalities more opportunities to protect tenants and tackle wrong landlords?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for Mrs Beckerman's questions. If you're asking me to hand out a right-wing direct, that's almost requests. It's a very tempting question, but I'm not going to answer it literally, if you'll allow me. I've also seen that broadcast of One-Today. It is absolutely not normal for you to be shot at by your landlord because you object to the imposed rental price. That's unacceptable. It is therefore a good thing that this case is now being examined further. As regards the way in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is acting against this, I should like to inform you of the following. On the basis of the letter with the municipality of Amsterdam, which has been sent to the Ministry and which has been supported by many aldermen from large municipalities, we recognise the problem and we would like to discuss it with the relevant municipalities as soon as possible. That appointment was made a month ago. The municipality of Amsterdam would also take the initiative and we await that initiative. In the meantime, of course, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we will continue to take our own responsibility. I would also remind you of the bill passed by this Chamber, which is now pending in the First Chamber. Let's hope it gets legal force on July 1st. It includes a number of measures to provide landlords who do not comply with the law, who are unsuccessful in the Rent Commission and who are demonstrably failing, with fees higher than the original fees. That's a stick behind the door. That is an important means. I hope this law will come into force as soon as possible. At the same time, we have taken the initiative to launch the Roadmap with your room rental price campaign, and that is one of the explanations, in my opinion, apart from the tense housing market that is there, you are right to point out that so many more reports are being made. I welcome that. Not that there are more reports on their own, but that the threshold for making reports has been lowered and that ultimately the people who are wronged are given the opportunity to achieve their justice. It appears from statements that many landlords run into trouble because they illegally apply too high rents to housing. So the system works. That is a very important point for us as a ministry. I also think that, together with the municipalities, we have not exhausted the instruments already available on the basis of existing legislation, i.e. periodic penalty payments, the imposition of fines on the basis of the Environmental Law, the Housing Act and the Housing Act. I therefore call on local administrators to actually adopt regulations in the city council that will enable landlords who make a mess of it to deal with it. Then together, together with the Ministry of Local Affairs, we can ensure that this problem is eliminated, because I agree with you that this is unacceptable, especially if there is intimidation and violence around the corner. We must fight this at all times. If it takes a right-wing direct, I'll be happy to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Secretary of State wants to talk to municipalities, but we've actually heard that a lot. You say there are many more possibilities. They're not in the new law that's coming. This new law is only gonna make an allowance. That's not gonna get those cottage milkers in their wallet. You yourself say: there are many more possibilities to hit those cottage milkers hard. We therefore want concrete plans. Because what exactly do you say to those 2,900 people with complaints? What exactly are you doing for these tenants? Max Dijkstra is such a tenant. He was trying to get his rights. He had to pay a casino rent for his dorm room in Leiden. And when he wanted to get his right, he got shot. Shot! He got hurt and had to go to the hospital. Just talking and just emptying, which house milkers don't get into their wallets, don't get anywhere. We've got to demolish the pay model of brawling barn renters. Louche rental practices, intimidation, sometimes even physical violence must be stopped. These cottage milkers really need to get hit in their wallet. You refer to the cities, but it is precisely the cities that say: we cannot solve this problem. Those concrete proposals are already there. The Secretary of State also said they're just lying there. They just haven't been introduced yet. I have also made concrete proposals on several occasions: make house milking an economic crime, set really high fines, make sure that statements by the Rent Committee always have consequences. Do you really want to protect tenants from the wrong landlords? You mention concrete measures that are not yet in place. Let me ask you again: what is this cabinet going to do in the short term, both in the area of housing and in the area of justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u6	We fully agree on the seriousness of the situation. I have just mentioned the legislation in the Lower House, which is now in the Upper Chamber, as an example of taking action against people who take advantage of the position, sometimes vulnerable position, of a tenant. That's one of the elements you can apply. The other element is the following. I saw the alderman of Amsterdam exuberantly cry out that he wants the cabinet to intervene. We are now waiting for Amsterdam for a month before an appointment. On the basis of all kinds of legislation, there are possibilities for municipal councils to intervene. Those opportunities must be exploited. So the subject of discussion that Minister Ollongren of the Interior will have with these aldermen is also: use the existing instruments. Calling for more legislation while the existing instruments are not being used, not even by this alderman, is not the right way to go. I think there are a lot more opportunities to do that. It also allows you to deal with those pawnshops, as you rightly call them, because you can simply impose fines. You can just hand out fines to those who don't follow the rules. So that's an extra element. I also call from this place on anyone who has a problem with reporting it to the Rent Committee, because that is the instruments that we have also devised from the Empire to increase the number of reports, to expose and solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mrs. Beckerman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u8	This is just really very disappointing, because this problem has been going on for years. Now we find that the number of complaints is increasing enormously, that there is intimidation, that there is aggression, that physical violence is being used. And the minister actually says, yes, we're going to talk about that, and the municipalities have to sort it out themselves. While the local authorities and the tenants are asking you, please make sure we can intervene. Despite an increasing number of complaints about intimidation and violence, the government is again not taking action. You're just gonna get threatened by your landlord, get scared, be aggressive, and then hear a secretary of state say he just wants to talk. The answer is really inadequate. We need to move harder. Student cities don't send a burn note for nothing. How are wrong landlords dealt with once and for all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u9	Finally, the Secretary of State, and then we move on to the other members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u10	This is a bit of a sham discussion that is now being staged. 'Cause what's happening? There's a problem. I refer to the instruments deployed from the Empire. That doesn't have the force of law at the moment, because it's in the Upper House. I hope it has the power of law before the summer. That's one element. The second is that, based on existing legislation, even for the alderman of the SP in Amsterdam, there are already a lot of opportunities to get to work. You didn't go into that at all. I'd say take advantage of that. The meeting with these aldermen is held from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has already been held. Amsterdam would take the initiative. We are now waiting for a response from Amsterdam. Let's set a date soon. Then the minister can sit down. Then we will also draw attention to the instruments that exist. Just yelling in the Chamber that there's a problem and that we have to fix it, that's one. Two is, where it belongs, with the local government, you have to deal with it. I think that we should first make full use of these instruments. So that means work to be done, including for the drivers of the big cities where this problem is at stake. As far as intimidation is concerned, we will be done with that very quickly. That's unacceptable. That's what's being reported. That is also being investigated. We agree very quickly that this is not part of the way you treat each other. You have to solve the problems through the legal means, through the Rent Committee, the right to do so is open and not, in any way, through intimidation or violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u11	D66 shares SP's concerns about intimidation. Max Dijkstra e-mailed me and scared the hell out of me. This is an extreme example of what is going on. That is why we have also tabled the motion asking the Minister to talk to those aldermen who sent the letter. I am glad to hear that action has been taken on this. As far as I am concerned, the Minister does not have to wait for the alderman of Amsterdam, but can simply get to work on it. In addition, we have indeed also tightened the rental committee rules. But one of the root causes of this problem is, of course, the shortage in the housing market. Does the Secretary of State agree with me in this case that additional housing, including for students, will ultimately be a very large part of the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u12	On that last point, I fully agree with you. That is also the commitment of this cabinet. For that, too, we need the municipalities. But that's no excuse for the behavior pawnshops show house milkers. We also need to limit this. We initiated that conversation. That motion, which I believe you tabled together with the CDA, is therefore also in progress. I hope that the big cities and the alderman, those who are now ringing the bell, will also take their own responsibility. Then we can pick that up together. It's a problem, it's soluble, but you just have to put a few examples and make it clear what the consequences are if you're showing this behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u13	There are thousands of tenants in trouble. That's not even the actual number, because a lot of people are afraid to even report it. The problem is much greater than these figures show. The cabinet is there and talking to it. I find the reference to the Rent Commission Act and that after complaints you have to pay a little more fee, really no solution to this problem of those tenants. They don't even go to rental committees. And those people aren't getting caught at all. How many cases are there at these rental commissions? Surely much more needs to be done than pointing to an alderman in Amsterdam who might be able to do a little more or point to a rental commission lege system that is very complicated and nobody understands about? There's really something going on. This is just crime. People are threatened. I would say cabinet, take action and do something about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr Nijboer is very excited at the moment and pretends that I am playing the game. I'm not doing that at all. I have spoken very clearly about this. But you have to deal with the problem where you can deal with it. To express the indignation here and call the cabinet is one part of the story. The cabinet has taken action. The Minister of the Interior has taken action, implemented that motion, has taken the initiative to sit down with those municipalities on the basis of the letter they sent two months after she took office. So that's all set in motion. Amsterdam would then take the initiative to call the people together. That didn't happen. I regret that. As far as we're concerned, we're at the table tomorrow. At the same time, the message from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be from the Minister to these aldermen: we would like to help you to ensure that these pawnshops and house milkers are dealt with, using the existing legislation and the tools that you yourself can develop on the basis of the legislation by introducing municipal regulations with penalty systems and periodic penalty payments. It's possible. This is possible on the basis of current legislation. That example from the law I just mentioned, the further modernisation of the Rent Committee, is one element of that, but that is not the whole story. That's one element. So the other is on the local level. So the other is on the local level. I am convinced that we can tackle the problem if we use all the instruments we have. It's not one thing or the other, but it's and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u15	The cabinet says "if we use all the measures," but the cabinet does not do so at all. The cabinet does not need large cities to impose fines on house milkers at all. It can just do it on its own. We do not want it to depend on whether Mr Hendriks lives in Nijmegen, Utrecht, Amsterdam or Eindhoven or gets a fine for his practices. The moment he breaks the rules, not the fee should be increased, but the man should just be hit hard in his wallet. We must then impose huge fines. It shouldn't matter where he lives in the Netherlands. So my question is: when can we look at the proposals for national fines for this kind of cornered cottage milkers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u16	Once again, also in the direction of the SP, in second term: not all salvation comes from The Hague. The Housing Act and the Environment Act offer coat canes at municipal level to work out these kinds of matters in regulations. You can include periodic penalty payments or penalty provisions in those regulations. That's the way it should be. We believe very strongly in subsidiarity: where the problem is, you have to deal with it. There will also be municipalities where this is hardly a problem. I think that's the fastest way. A city council can do this very quickly. The VNG can play a role in this with model regulations. So it's not that hard to solve this problem at all. But what bothers me a little is that they're calling like it's all in the ministry, while the key's on the local level. Once again, on behalf of the Minister, I reach out to all the aldermen who experience this problem to solve it together. But there really is a responsibility for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u17	Aggression and intimidation by landlords must be tackled vigorously. I find it shocking to hear that the SP, Mrs Beckerman, is calling for us to tackle it, while the SP alderman, Mr Ivens, does not want to do it. May I suggest that we take it up with the Minister of Security and the Mayor and take it up in Amsterdam via that corner?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u18	I must honestly say to Mr Koerhuis that this is not my daily work. It is an extremely interesting subject, I must add. I will pass on the wish to have a quick consultation to the Minister. I will, because that seems appropriate to me. Instead of sending all kinds of messages via EenVandaag, it is better to hit the team here. As far as the harassment route is concerned, there are already a number of trials going on. They're running in an orderly fashion. There's a report, there's an investigation, and there's a prosecution, if that's what it takes. That's not a matter that would have to go through public administration. But let me say once again that it is unacceptable and that anyone who takes this kind of thing into his head must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you. Mrs Beckerman, do you have a second question on this subject? You felt addressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u20	Well, I was addressed by Mr Koerhuis, so I wanted to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-2.u21	We can't, because we're having a debate with the Secretary of State. At another time, in another meeting, you can share your differences with each other. But not right now. Thank you. Secretary of State, thank you for coming to the Chamber.
