ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u1	In this short third term, I will first of all give the floor to Mrs Nooren to explain her amended motion. I will then continue with the list of speakers we used in the debate on 30 January and 6 February. Those who wish to speak are given a five-minute speaking time. There is, of course, an opportunity for an interruption when one needs it, but I also hope that it will be self-limiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mrs Nooren, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The Members of Parliament have been able to note that there has been contact over the last week between the Registrar and me on the second-term motion. This has led my group to amend the motion in order to make it absolutely clear that the motion seeks to ensure, through Article 23 (3), that the Minister consults with the field in order to establish a quality standard relevant to implementation practice under the Organ Donation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u4	The motion-Nooren c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the bill for the inclusion of an active donor registration system leads to a fundamental change in donorship and that the core of the bill is that you are a potential donor, unless you have entered yourself in the donor registry that you do not want to be a donor, or that you have indicated that you can decide on the donorship for next of kin or a specific other person;]] [[Whereas this affects the distribution of roles between doctors involved in transplantation care and other care providers, survivors(s) and potential donors;]] [[Whereas, in the course of the examination of the legislative proposal, it has been discussed that it is the daily practice that no organs are excluded if there are no survivors, or that there are serious concerns of survivors against donation;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that, following the introduction of the above-mentioned legislative proposal, as much as possible be applied nationally in the field of transplant care, including the method of dealing with survivors;]] [[Whereas the guidance on quality standards drawn up on behalf of the Netherlands Health Institute provides guidelines for the establishment of a quality standard, with regard both to the process of drafting and to the content of the guidelines, protocols forming part of a quality standard;]] [[Whereas Article 23 (3) of the Organ Donation Act lays down that general administrative measures may lay down detailed rules concerning the Protocol referred to in Article 23 (1);]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with the field on the establishment of a quality standard for transplantation care, which meets the criteria set out in the above guidance and which sets out the above-mentioned roles between doctors and survivors;]] [[Finally, in the general administrative measure of the Organ Donation Act referred to in Article 23, third paragraph, the Government requests that the use of this quality standard be anchored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33506-S]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u5	I thought you said we were allowed to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u6	You may interrupt, but you also have five minutes to make your own contribution. But you want to interrupt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u7	I do have a question. I listened well and read along with the new motion. I have, of course, particularly looked at the difference between the old and the new motion. I note that in the new motion the previous request which should be confirmed that if there are no survivors or serious complaints from survivors, there should be no organ removal. If I read it correctly, that piece was removed from the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u8	What we are aiming at with the motion is that, in consultation with the field, there should be a quality standard on the process that takes place when there is a potential donor. There was confusion because that "calls on the government to..." also gives a place to the content of that quality standard. That's what the clerk told us. That leads to confusion. Then it seems as if we want to include that in Rule 23 (3). That is by no means our intention. Our aim is to ensure that the existing implementation practice, as it is and as it is in the debate, is that if a doctor is unable to inform anyone, there will be no take-out, and if there are serious objections, a doctor does not proceed to take-out, it will be regulated in that quality standard. That is why we removed it from the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u9	Clear, so your demand to anchor those relevant standards remains. That is also stated in the explanatory statement to the motion. In that you say: it must be stated that if there are serious objections and if there are no next of kin, there will be no organ removal. You yourself referred to your conversation with the clerk. Then we run into the hard point that you want to regulate things that are different from what is in the law through lower regulations and protocols. So that's where light gets in. You do not accept that point with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u10	No, we have the law on organ donation and we have the existing practice of doctors. Mr De Graaf has repeatedly pointed out in the debate that doctors do not have a duty to take out. Part of the debate has been about the question: how is it going in practice, how do doctors do that? It has been discussed that it is daily practice that doctors weigh people's arguments heavily, that they listen carefully to people, that they take people into the process and that if there is a serious psychological need, they do not proceed to take out. At the moment, in the current law on organ donation, 11% of the people who have said yes are. We noted with each other in the debate, and I drew attention to this in my second term, that there was no mention of this process in the current protocols, which are guiding the hospitals. My group believes that, given the vulnerability of this new legislative proposal, which brings about fundamental changes in the system, it is very important to agree with the field on uniform protocols that are guiding. That's why the field parties need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u11	This is the last time, Mr. Chairman. There's a very thick mist coming down right now. The bill simply does not state that no organs can be excluded if there are no next of kin. Nor does it say that there is no organ removal in the event of serious problems of survivors. You want to anchor that now in protocols and/or protocols. delegated regulation. Thus, there is a slight gap between the legislative proposal and the lower regulation. In my opinion, we should not want that as a First Chamber, especially not on a delicate subject such as this, which concerns your body.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u12	No, I see it differently. We have an existing implementation practice in which it is common that doctors are not obliged to take out. Mr De Grave has pointed this out. It strikes me that it was also widely shared that this existing practice is nowhere established. That means that people can't rely on anything if they find anything about it. We think it is important that doctors work according to uniform standards and protocols. In addition, the doctor in the end always has his own judgment. To do that, you need to set things up in protocols and guidelines. We want the gap to be closed between daily practice, which has nothing to do with it, and how it is formally established in the law on organ donation, so actually the way doctors complete their work. We see that the quality standard can serve to ensure that it is properly regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u13	I'm leaving, Mr. Chairman. This is really the last time. I think Mrs Nooren's intention is very sympathetic, but she will then have to insist on the royal road. That is the way of a legislative change, a novelle we call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u14	Mrs. Martens, do you have an interruption with Mrs. Nooren?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u15	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Nooren says that she would like to join the practice and that that is the intention of the motion. I wonder whether she agrees with what is stated in the more detailed reply given by the initiator. The initiator writes that the wish that has been established must be implemented. Eventually it all remains confusing, all the more so since the wish as it has been recorded is also seen as consent if people do not respond. On the one hand, you have the wish established by the government. It has to be carried out. On the other hand, Mrs Nooren calls for the practice to be respected. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u16	The initiator also sent a letter clarifying the situation. The letter clearly makes the difference between what is in the law and what is in daily practice. In daily practice, doctors engage in dialogue with next of kin. They'll see what's going on and see if there's any serious psychological issues. To do good, you don't have to hurt someone else. That was also the subject of the debate last time. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I now give the opportunity to the other Members of Parliament to discuss in more detail in the third term legislative proposal 33506, the proposal for a law of member Pia Dijkstra amending the law on organ donation in relation to the inclusion of an active donor registration system. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motions tabled by Mr Nooren and Mr Koffeman make it clear that there is a great deal of doubt about this bill, which does not do justice to donors and relatives. Such motions are not the right instrument to arrive at a certain interpretation of a bill. It is a motion for a resolution to camouflag a shortcoming in this bill and to justify a vote for this bill. If one considers that this bill does not work, one should vote against this bill. The PVV Group will vote against both motions and against this bill, because these motions and the bill do not do justice to both donors and relatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u19	We are talking about one motion, namely Mrs Nooren's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u20	Yeah, but I've come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u21	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Mrs Baay does not need a third term. I call Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Nooren's original motion called for the legal anchoring by means of delegated legislation and protocols of two crucial matters for the Chamber, namely: the doctor will not proceed to organ removal if there are no survivors and the doctor will not proceed to organ removal if survivors have serious objections. The above standards are not consistent with what is now regulated in the law on the position of survivors, which was already discussed in the debate on the interruption. In other words, these new standards deviate from what is laid down in the legislative proposal. This means inadequate handling of delegated legislation, as core standards of a legislative complex should be incorporated into the law and not into delegated legislation. And in the case of delegated regulations, there should be no deviation from the standards laid down in the law itself. Does the Minister endorse this normative standard for sound legislation? In his last letter I found no clarity about this. Mr. Chairman. It seems that the PvdA is now eager to take its loss. It has tabled a new motion to deal with the above concerns. With all due respect, it's a flodder motion. In this new motion, the request has been removed that the doctor should not proceed to organ removal if there are no survivors and that this should not happen if survivors have serious objections. In the explanatory statement to the motion, however, Mrs Nooren writes: "In the long run, we want it to be recorded that serious complaints by relatives do not result in the removal of organs or even if there are no survivors." There is therefore a huge gap between the motion for a resolution and its explanatory statement. Martinus Nijhoff's adage "Read but, it doesn't say what it says" gets a very special interpretation from the PvdA. Mr. Chairman. We are going through a very exciting journey: from Wassenberg to Wassenaar to wash nose. But in all seriousness: the PvdA makes a farce of the legislative process, while it is such a delicate issue. However, I end up positive. Fortunately, Mrs Dijkstra was not indifferent to Mrs Nooren's original motion. That is why I ask the applicant a logical question: will you then go down the royal road by amending your bill and would you like to legally anchor the intended role of next of kin? In any case, that means an improvement in this bill. It also does justice to an orderly legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. Our group and, in my view, the entire Chamber support the objective of the legislative proposal: to promote more donations, more conscious choices and more registrations. The debate in the first term ended with the broad shared wish of the Chamber to at least legally anchor the position of next of kin in such a way that survivors would have the right to consent and would have the guarantee that there would be no organ removal if there were no next of kin. We received a letter from the initiator about this. Because the legal significance of this matter, even after the debate on it, remained unclear and given that it proved crucial for many Members to be able to agree to the legislative proposal, there is the Nooren motion to formulate these wishes more precisely and to legally anchor them through quality standards. In the second term, it was asked whether this could be done legally. After all, an AMvB can regulate a law further but no different. In the meantime, it is clear that what this motion requested is completely contrary to the views of the First Chamber on delegated regulation. In the meantime we have not only the second but also the third version of the Nooren motion, and now with an explanation. The legal questions remain in force. Also, the AMvB based on Article 23 (3) on the proposed quality standard in the amended version of the motion cannot go beyond the legislative proposal. That article refers to protocols which each hospital is expected to draw up on how they deal with making it plausible that the registration does not correspond to the wishes of the person concerned. Mr. Chairman. This is quite different from taking into account the concerns of survivors and not taking out organs if there are no survivors. The Minister's letter goes right past this question. A quality standard can indeed be regulated through an AMvB, but a basic constitutional standard states that the AMvB cannot impose any other or stricter requirements than those laid down in the law itself. That was and is now indirectly the question in the motion. Please explain to the Minister his letter on this point. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the question of whether you are in favour or against this bill, we have never discussed such a messy legislative process in the Chamber. Everyone now has their own interpretations and hopes regarding the legal framework we are debating. Confusion reigns everywhere. That can't be the intention. The history of law, which has been cited several times, can only be interpreted in greater detail by the law. It cannot change the legislative proposal itself, if not the oral and written explanations of the initiator. It is now completely unclear whether we are clear in the views on what is to be regulated now. Who can see what we are going to vote on? Does the bill actually regulate what the Chamber wants? Apart from whether you are in favour or against the bill, the task of the Chamber is to assess the quality of legislative proposals, especially if fundamental rights are at stake. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Our group looks forward with interest to the response of the Minister and the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u25	Thank you, Mrs Martens. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks, as MPs, we have received a plethora of e-mails from both supporters and opponents of the donor law. These e-mails show how controversial this law is, how much doubt there is in society about this proposal. In the meantime, the votes are being counted here today and we know it will be close. Should we want to adopt a law that intervenes so deeply in privacy, which affects a sensitive fundamental rights debate, possibly by a narrow majority? We all want to increase the number of donors. That's everyone's bet. But let us develop a proposal that can count on more support rather than a proposal that builds on supposed consent in the removal of organs. Mr. Chairman. I'm concentrating on the Nooren motion. I note that this does not make it any clearer for us. The change in the operative part is quite considerable within a week. The word "roll-sharing" now covers the possibility of refusal, which was first at the heart of the operative part. I am curious to hear the applicant's reaction to this change. Is it true that even with explicit consent, the role of the family, which can express serious objections, has been increased? Mr. Chairman. We understand that, in this version of this motion, it is about recording the existing practice of consultation between doctors and next of kin. The motion seeks to maintain the existing division of roles, we understand. But the law changes something about that. Now next of kin can say no, but in the situation provided for by the law they do not have a veto, was said last week. When it comes to increasing the role of the next of kin, why is the law still necessary at all? What changes in practice? Do we therefore like the current practice of many family denials? As you know, in the previous deadlines, I have always made every effort to ensure that profits can be made there, when there are fewer family refusals in a situation where there is demand. In other words, there has to be more communication in advance. Mr. Chairman. In another respect, the law also changes the division of roles mentioned in the motion, because the doctor has in principle legal permission to take out organs in a fictional "no objection." That is precisely what makes the conditions for mutual consultation more difficult. The motion tries to find a way out of this, but gives an explanation that ultimately does not fit the law. And then there's this. The motion seeks to establish something normative by means of a general measure of governance, whereas this is something that should have been regulated by law, for example in Article 11 of the initiative proposal. The position of next of kin remains unclear to our group, too unclear to get involved in this legislation. Mr. Chairman. Our group believes that with so much uncertainty we cannot continue this path of this legislative proposal. You are now aware of our objection to this law, but that also applies to the motion now before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Don. No? Thank you, Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. We agree here in this Chamber that there should be more donors. The bill gives rise to many more choices to be made. I'm assuming it's likely that more yes choices will also be made. There are also likely to be a lot of non-choice, registered as "no objection," which does not mean "no objection to donorship," but means "no objection." This also means that a safety must be built in in order not to abuse this somewhat unclear situation. For that, an important role of the next of kin is very important. That is a role of the next of kin, but the next of kin also has its own role, a personal interest in this. The next of kin is there. It undergoes what happens, it carries the experience more than the donor itself. So next of kin the last word and no next of kin no donation; that seems to me to be a reasonable, very explanatory approach. That would have been better in the law. There should have been no misunderstanding about it, but it is not in the law. Mrs Nooren's motion, which I have signed, must provide for this, even more clearly than the letter from the applicant. The applicant says: this is current practice and the legislative proposal does not change anything about it. That is correct, but the practice is not entirely recorded than in the discussion here in this Chamber and in that letter. That's part of the history of law, and that counts. However, the motion makes the same discussion even more explicit in the question to the Minister to define these principles in consultation with the field in a quality standard. This quality standard, as an umbrella of the protocols, can of course be mentioned in the AMvB mentioned in the law: not the content of that quality standard, of course, but "there is a quality standard." That is, all in all, not the most beautiful way of legislation, of regulation, but it can be effective to achieve the goals, the objectives set out in the law on the one hand, and the Minister's call for a quality standard with the field on the other. For this purpose, the purpose of recording this protection, the KNMG is also satisfied, according to her last letter. And that pleases me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u29	On the subject of legal history, do I understand that Mr Ten Hoeve has the idea that if it is said, the legal history, a word, an explanation, which counts as much as the legal text itself? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u30	No, not everything that is said is of course as important as the legal text. However, it is important that the observations are made in the Chamber and endorsed by the applicant, as an intention behind the law. If the applicant, the person from whom the law comes and who should nevertheless be deemed to be able to say something about what the law is about, expressly agrees with those observations, then that is legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u31	I assume that Mr Ten Hoeve also agrees with me that the initiator of explanations can never arrange anything other than what is in the law, just further. It is exactly what you yourself say, Mr Ten Hoeve: unfortunately that is not in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u32	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u33	But now you take the words of the initiator as an explanation, which is different...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u34	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u35	You consider it equal to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u36	Here, I think, we are formulating a different wording. In my opinion, the applicant's explanation is no different from the law, but is complementary to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u37	Finally, Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u38	The law provides that survivors have no role, that they are no longer consulted and that they can only make it plausible if they do not agree with the registration of the person concerned. So that's the position of the next of kin with this law. The practice is different at the moment and you would like to see it regularly, but that is something else. The law is very clear about the role of the next of kin in making the wish of the deceased patient or the person concerned plausible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u39	Mrs Martens considers this phrase in the law to be the only one applicable to the position of the surviving spouse. I don't think that's right. This is not an exhaustive list of what the next of kin may. It's okay to add more, but according to the law, at least this is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u40	I have one question. Does Mr Ten Hoeve recognize that, having heard the discussion he is having with Mrs Martens and all the confusion surrounding it, it is extremely logical for the royal, the decent way to go by sending the change of law back to the Second Chamber so that this very important point, the role of next of kin, can be dealt with without all kinds of fog? That is what you must be advocating, after hearing your contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u41	I told you it would have been better if this were settled in the law right away, but we now have what we have. If we can manage this properly and properly, we can move forward with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u42	Really last time, we got what we got? You also have the opportunity to steer a novelle, so what opposes it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u43	That is why we are opposed to talking about this law and having to give an opinion on it. If there is another law in the future, we will judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. Mrs Bredenoord says she doesn't need any input. Thank you, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. The debate in the Chamber, the countless letters and media coverage have made it clear how much this subject lives in society and that it affects people personally, fores and againsts. This underlines the need for a careful debate, but also for careful legislation. This deadline has been requested for the amended motion-Nooren c.s. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The first motion aimed to lay down the position of survivors with serious objections in the legislation, at least the use of the criteria. The new motion requires that it be arranged, but leaves the content to the field, in consultation with the Minister. Mr. Chairman. My group considers the amended motion to be an improvement. The first motion aimed, understandably, to lay down the current practice in rules to provide more legal certainty to survivors, but the way in which their position in a kind of twilight area put between the doctor's due diligence requirements and a right to honour the concerns of the survivors. That is a twilight area that leaves room for new questions and new uncertainties, without a clear legal or procedural framework. In fact, the legislator must make a choice between or regulate the legal status of survivors in the law, with the result that the scope for action of doctors is limited, or the establishment of procedural safeguards for the field where doctors can ultimately take responsibility for their final decision. The amended motion is the last one and my group agrees with that. In my first and second term, I have identified these procedural safeguards as crucial. Survivors must be taken seriously in their principles and the emotional difficulty they have in following the donor's explicit and implicit desire. Both the initiator, the minister and the doctors have always told the Chamber that this is done in practice and that in doubt there is no donation. Even now this is not regulated by the law, but it is done in practice. My group strongly supports the continuation of this approach, because only in the field can the individual context of a case be assessed and all elements, both medical and humanitarian, can be weighed in their entirety. That practice works properly is assured to us and is now valid even if an explicit "yes" is registered. Something's going to change now, of course. A large group of survivors are no longer asked for permission, but they may raise serious concerns. My group believes that their concerns are also taken seriously, and it does not matter whether a choice has been made or not by a donor. We therefore welcome the fact that procedural safeguards are now being better protected. As far as we are concerned, this is part of the doctor's due diligence. The amended motion provides for these safeguards to be laid down, but does not comment on the content. That seems to us to be the right division of responsibility between government, doctor and next of kin. The government guarantees procedural guarantees and the doctors determine the substantive criteria together with the government, the starting point being that, in accordance with current practice, no organ removal takes place in the event of serious problems on the part of the survivors or in the absence of survivors. This gives the next of kin legal certainty, but no right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u46	Mr Kuiper has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hanging on to this, Mrs. Strik. Was it not you who in previous periods asked for guarantees as to the position of the survivors, particularly in situations where "no objection" was registered? Now you say that you think this motion is an improvement: let the field discuss it further. But you also said, in the light of Article 11 of the Constitution, that this is an infringement of physical integrity and that there must be guarantees here that in the case of "no objection" or if it is unclear from what motive someone entered in that register can refuse relatives? Now you will go with: let's leave it to the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u48	No, Article 11 takes into account the donor's own wishes, because that is about not allowing the government to violate the physical integrity of a person. That is why I have indeed asked for guarantees that, if it is even slightly plausible that this take-out is not in line with the donor's wishes, it will not happen. And that's legally guaranteed. I am very pleased about that, also that the initiator said that the burden of proof is very low. So it's going to be adopted very quickly. If there's any doubt that it's the wish, it's not going to happen. Here we are talking about the concerns of the next of kin, and that is another situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u49	Yes, but Mrs. Strik can't deny that when you put it in the field, that the guarantee that has been requested here... The focus of the debate was: what is the position of the next of kin in those cases where the motive of a registered person is unclear? That needs to be clarified. Now, as far as I'm concerned, it slips away and you slip a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u50	Mr Kuiper once again makes no distinction between the plausibility that must be established as to whether it is in accordance with the wishes of the donor, as laid down in the law, and serious concerns that relatives may have, even if the donor's wish is established. That's two different things. I think it is very important in the context of Article 11 that the law clearly states that registration is not in accordance with the wishes expressed. And that's what's being dealt with. Mr. Chairman. However, what I have said does not alter the fact that we cannot yet know whether the current practice is working equally smoothly in a new situation. Finger on the wrist is therefore important. For us, it is therefore also important that the Minister has also committed himself to involving the next of kin in the evaluation. If this proves that legal certainty is not sufficiently guaranteed or that there are too many disputes between next of kin and doctors, this could be a reason to take the step towards legal anchoring. At present, we do not see enough reason for this. Moreover, the vote on this motion will not be decisive for my group members to vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u52	Madam President, thank you very much. It might be good to recall briefly that the VVD Group, in its first term, indicated how it points the initiative law towards the next of kin. Then a letter came and the initiator confirmed the interpretation we gave. Logically, it follows that, as far as we are concerned, there was no need for a further motion for further clarification, because it was clear to us. However, the motion is there and then the question is what we think of that motion. Then it is very crucial what exactly is in that motion. I agree with what I said at the time: what is going on in Article 23 (3) in that AMvB? When it comes to procedural guarantees, in other words: that the standards of practice should be given a place and that they should be reconsidered, given the new law, if it is adopted, then my group understands that. But what we have great difficulty with, insurmountable difficulty, is if there were rules in the law through delegated legislation and the AMvB. So my group's specific question is to make it clear. I would just like to ask the Minister immediately, because a motion is an appeal to the Minister, a statement from the Chamber, and the Minister has to go ahead with it. What's going to be in that AMvB? The clearer the answer, the more I think that helps with the discussion here in the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, the answer must therefore be: no, I am not going to lay down rules in that AMvB and that AMvB will not change the legal history and the way in which the law has been judged, also in connection with the letter. But it may be that some people in this Chamber believe that this does not give any guarantees. That is a dilemma that my group cannot resolve, because we object to it if these guarantees were to be repeated, and we do not need them by means of delegated regulations, because then we feel that we are related to the objections expressed by the Registrar but also to the firm practice in the First Chamber that you should not lay down any further rules on a law in lower delegated regulations, certainly not on this subject. So in summary, we do not need any further clarification, but that is consistent with our previous judgment. We understand that others look at that differently. We understand if this motion would lead, in practice, to the doctors thinking more closely about this new law, should it be adopted, and then make new standards or adapted standards. We also understand if that is given a basis in the AMvB in a procedural sense, how it should be. However, it is very difficult for us to interpret this motion in such a way that there will be any form of substantive foundation in the further regulation. I would therefore like to have a very clear statement from the Minister on this, of course from the initiator, which is her intention, but the Minister must carry out the motion. Once again, I realize that our interpretation cuts the way for further guarantees or guarantees through the AMvB, but I must make it very clear that it cannot go both ways. A choice will have to be made. We will vote against the motion if it is the case that these further safeguards come through an AMvB, for the reasons I state. We will rethink when it is procedural, but at least these fundamental objections are different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u53	Of course, it is crucial how the Minister will react. Let me be clear: for us, it is only about a quality standard that is more important than just the content of the doctor's work. It's more about exactly what Mr. De Grave says about the procedural side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u54	But it's really hard when you read...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u55	Mr. Kuiper wants to connect to this, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u56	Yes, because my question is: do not such an AMvB set the standards that we are talking about all the time, namely the role of the next of kin when it comes to refusing in a particular situation? I am actually asking Mrs Nooren because she is the author of the motion. I totally get Mr. De Grave's point, because the guarantee character is gone and that's what it was all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u57	I can't defend two things at once. I don't want to. So, on behalf of my group, I am making it very clear. I understand exactly your interruption. No, not as far as we're concerned. And if the answer is yes, or a little yes, then we have insurmountable objections to the motion. So in that sense, that's the core of the point. But it is very consistent from our point of view from the beginning, because we have indicated from the beginning that this law is clear to us and that we also believe that the position of the next of kin should be argued from the practical point of view. But the question naturally arises because the motion states that "the government requests the general measure of administration of the Organ Donation Act referred to in Article 23 (3) to anchor the use of this quality standard." That raises the question. Then there will also be a third version of the motion, this morning, with a few changes as well. So that raised questions in my group. What exactly does that motion say? That is why it is crucial that we hear that. Now Mrs Nooren has said something as the author of the motion. Mrs. Strik said something about it. Of course, it is also very crucial how the motion is interpreted by the Minister, but I have made it clear that the answer to this question will be crucial for my group in voting on the motion. Then I'll come to a conclusion, but I'll wait for the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u58	I'm a co-subscriber of the motion. I therefore also think that I am entitled to give a little bit of interpretation. The motion says very explicitly: we ask the Minister, as we very often ask a minister in a motion, to consult the field on drawing up a national quality standard. And we ask the Minister to put in the AMvB: the field needs to establish a quality standard. No more than that, nothing in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u59	But nothing about the content, so the question then arises as to what is meant by the paragraph in question: "calls on the government to consult with the field on the establishment of the quality standard for transplantation care which meets the criteria set out in the above guidance, and which regulates the distribution of roles above." So that gives the impression, at least the question raises: should I interpret the motion in such a way that the Minister says 'you are going to make a quality standard and that should include this, this and this'? Do you understand? So you're still working on setting standards in terms of content, via that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u60	Not through the AMvB. We put a question to the Minister to do something, but we usually do that in motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u61	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u62	We ask the Minister to consult with the field on a quality standard and we ask the Minister to ask the field to include these elements. That is not the content of the AMvB, but it is an explicit question for the Minister to include it with the field and ask the field to draw up such a quality standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u63	That is a clear answer, but if you allow me, on behalf of my group, I can at least say that the phrase'met the criteria set out in the guide above, and setting out the above...' gives a different impression. But here too, in the end, the interpretation of the motion is first and foremost to those who have submitted it. It is also very important how the Minister handles the motion. It will be clear how we will test the motion. I think that is quite clearly indicated. There is an understanding of the need for the field to respond to the new law, if it could be adopted, and to provide the professionals with support. But when criteria are formulated, demands are made, principles are formulated, we say: that is a bridge going too far. That doesn't belong in an AMvB. If you want to settle that, we will find each other, I think, Mr Van Dijk, on the same side, you will do so in the royal way. Again, we do not have that need. That's why we didn't argue for it. We're consistent with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u64	We can go a long way with your speech. As co-host, I also feel free to say something about it. We have read it in such a way that the AMvB only refers to the quality standards, so instructs to apply those quality standards. These quality standards will say a few things, in particular about procedural guarantees, the relationship between relatives and doctors and so on. That is how we understood it, but I would also like to know whether the Minister shares it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u65	But then it must also be clear at the same time, in this sense, that I also understand the interruptions of others, because you cannot claim two things at the same time that there are indeed no additional guarantees in this way. The state of affairs is: the law, the legal history, the letter of the initiator. That is the legal framework. That also regulates the position of the next of kin. For the rest, how the practice handles it, that's up to the practice. Once again, we are at peace with that. That is not a crucially distinctive element for us. But then it's clear. But if the image of it is created that it would differ from that, you will see our problem, because then something will be changed. And if something is changed, then it needs a legal basis and cannot do so via an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u66	As far as we are concerned, you can also create greater legal certainty for the next of kin without legal guarantees. You do that through such a quality standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u67	But these are the practical standards. That is something different from "the guarantee" which is legally anchored. But I do understand that some people are asking urgent questions about this, and that is also important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u68	I think the confusion is complete now. There are five petitioners under the motion and I hear five different interpretations. I thought I'd make it a little easier. The applicant has been kind enough to give a very clear explanation of her motion. I assume that the five signatories agree. It says literally, when it comes to a quality standard, and with that we also clarify to Mr De Grave: In substance, we want it to be recorded that serious concerns of relatives do not result in the removal of organs, and not even if there are no next of kin. So there are some substantive guarantees given with this motion. That's the purpose of the motion. I think there can be no misunderstanding about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u69	In the end, we are dealing here with this debate. You hear five interpretations. I have heard a clear interpretation at the moment. That was also necessary for clarification will be clear, because you give a quote, I give a few quotes, which at least raised questions. But I do hear a very clear answer now. That answer is: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In the AMvB also only a processual anchoring, no substantive anchoring. Once again, in a moment the Minister, also important, and then my group will weigh it up and give an opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u70	So in that unambiguous interpretation, next of kin have no guarantees, no guarantees that if they are asked "someone is registered with no objection, what do we have to do?', Indeed they have a settled position to say no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u71	I disagree with Mr Kuiper. Nor will it surprise him that I am giving this answer, because then we will repeat a discussion that we also had following the letter from the initiator. We see the law in conjunction with the explanatory statement, with what has been exchanged here and with the letter. It is clearly stated how the initiator in practice proposes that doctors should act. We therefore see these safeguards explicitly also in the professional behaviour of the doctor, the obligations of the doctors, within the framework even as defined by the law. That was clear to us at the time. We also opposed legal amendments at the time, including in the discussion with Mrs Borst under the earlier law. We see the balance of interests between a clear and clear legal system and a practice in which we trust that it will apply the standards carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u72	I was talking about the general measure of governance. I therefore note that there will be no legal guarantees for the next of kin. Maybe in the trial, but we didn't lay that down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u73	I told you. I agree with that conclusion. Then you can walk different paths. Look, that's not a problem for us, because we didn't ask for it either. Others did, or others may have given the impression that it was crucial for them. That's what I'm saying: we have to choose one. We will not support a proposal to do it through an AMvB. If that is to be done, it must be done by royal means. We do not need it. We do understand procedural safeguards. That's exactly the limit. So the answer to your question is yes, but that is consistent from our reasoning. Finally, Madam President, my group too, but that is also consistent, that voting on the motion and whether it is adopted or rejected will not be relevant to how we will ultimately judge the proposal. We have very different considerations in this regard, which I shall perhaps clarify in the explanation of vote on the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u74	Thank you very much, Mr De Grave. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Rarely has a bill had as much social impact as the bill before us today. We've received stacks of letters and e-mails from people who are very concerned. That places a great responsibility on us, an even greater responsibility than we normally have when reviewing legislative processes. Especially because this law has been adopted with the smallest possible majority in the Lower House and also causes great division in the Upper House. So it is up to us to assess the legislative proposal on legality, enforceability and feasibility. It is also very important that the infringement of fundamental rights as laid down in Article 11 of the Constitution is justified from the point of view of subsidiarity and proportionality. The question for assessment is not whether more donor bodies should be made available. We agree on that. The question is whether we are dealing with a proper law. There are very different views about this, and that gives us reason to think about it. This week we received an intrusive advice from the Registrar in which we were reminded that the policy in place is to lay down core standards of a legislative complex not in delegated regulation but in the law itself. In addition, the Registrar stressed that the current policy is not to deviate by delegated regulation from standards laid down in the law itself. As far as my group is concerned, the legislative proposal before us does not provide sufficient guarantees as requested in this House. These safeguards should not be laid down by means of a field standard or a general measure of governance, but by law itself. The position of our Chamber is that we approve or reject a law, not amend it. But if the considerations that have been raised here justify a novelle, we can ask for that in this House by way of a motion. I'd like to do that. I would ask for a roll-call vote on that motion before the vote on the law and before the vote on the Nooren motion. Thank you. The President shall: Mr Koffeman and Mr Teunissen tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft law for the inclusion of an active donor registration system (ADR legislative proposal) does not provide sufficient guarantees on the influence of donors' survivors;]] [[having regard to the Court's wish that in the absence of survivors there should be no withdrawal of the institution;]] [[Whereas the position of low-skilled, illiterate and people with disabilities is not adequately regulated in the ADR legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas the current policy is to lay down the core standards of a legislative complex not in delegated regulation, but in the law itself;]] [[Considering that the current policy is not to deviate by delegated regulation from standards laid down in the law itself;]] [[calls on the applicant to establish the core standards as requested in the First Chamber and to commit itself to the law by means of a novellle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33506-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u76	Is a short suspension possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u77	Five minutes? Ten minutes? I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u78	I give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can discuss the motions here. I have been asked how I respond to the amended motion by Mrs Nooren and the other signatories. It is, of course, up to the Minister to tell us later to what extent he considers it feasible. In the previous instance, he has already indicated that he will leave the judgment on the motion to your Chamber. As far as I am concerned, the amended motion is also a very good addition to what I have tried to indicate in the legislative proposal. Article 23 also allows for further regulation. The motion asks in my view: anchor the quality standard, anchor the healthcare practice. I therefore believe that it is clear, so I also welcome this amended motion. Then there is a motion from Mr Koffeman. Mr Koffeman is asking for a novelle, but in fact he is almost asking for a completely amended law. He mentions a few things. I just need to get my stuff in order. It's about three things in that motion. Mr Koffeman asked for this to be laid down in the law on serious family concerns. He argued in the recitals that the position of low-lettered, illiterate and people with disabilities is not adequately regulated in the proposal, and that standing policy is that the core standards of a legislative process are not laid down in delegated regulation but in the law itself. Of course, I would say, but the core standard of the law is very clear. That's self-determination. That's the wish of the person who registered. Serious concerns of the survivors are already decisive in the current law. Because the serious concerns of the next of kin are not about the standard, but about the exception. So what you're doing is you're taking care of the exception in the protocols. That is also what is happening in practice. That's what's being arranged in those protocols. In the Nooren motion it is made even more doomed. According to the law, the next of kin can then prove that the potential donor's wish is not followed as recorded. For that, it's necessary to reach next of kin. The fact that next of kin cannot be reached is also an exception. The current practice of care is that there is no take-out if no next of kin are reached, but doctors have not yet experienced it. This can also be laid down in protocols. That's an exceptional situation. This may also be dealt with in the quality standard. But the quality standard is a performance of the healthcare practice that is already taking place. In the current law on organ donation it is arranged in exactly the same way. We have not changed that in the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u80	The position of survivors is of course fundamentally different if you are next of kin to someone who has failed to send a message to the government and is registered as having no objection, or if you are next of kin to someone who has clearly had his opinion registered. The law should have been much clearer about that. The fact that we have been talking about this for so long and the fact that the Nooren motion had to be amended up to three times are very clear evidence that the law is not as clear as you say. There are obviously a lot of imperfections and gaps left. Those imperfections and gaps should be repaired if we want to adopt such a law in this house in a normal way. There may be other considerations, for example that you want something very badly, but not that it is a proper law. In that sense, I think you will have to admit. For example, your letter says: no, there is no right of veto; yes, the next of kin have the last word. How to make chocolate out of that in a legal way is not clear to anyone. Perhaps you can try to point that out one more time, but that difference is already such that it is a justification for a proper repair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u81	In reply to Mr Koffeman, I think it is important to look again at what this bill does. This is not a bill that regulates the position of next of kin, this is a bill that regulates registration. And the misunderstanding, you might say, is that self-determination implies that if someone registers that he wants to be a donor, then after his death those organs should actually be transplanted. But that is not the case and that is not what the current law on organ donation is about. At the most, a registered person can make the organs available. And if anything happens to it, the doctor ultimately matters from his professionalism. For example, he can for other professional reasons also refrain from withdrawal, for example if the organs are not suitable. I would like to come back to the second standard that is being discussed: the doctor will not donate if survivors have serious objections to it if the doctor's behaviour will cause psychological damage to the survivors. That is the norm which, at the time, when the current law on organ donation was drawn up, was said to be impossible and should not be incorporated into the law. Not because that would be contrary to the law, but because it is on the territory of the health professionals, of the professionalism of the doctors. We've dealt with that before here. Now it's about how much the law should do. We are saying: no, it is not desirable to include this in the law. On the contrary, it is desirable to keep that out because it is an individual approach and an individual assessment. But it is very good, of course, that is what the Nooren motion wants to lay down, that a quality standard is set for that, so that there is an equal approach throughout the healthcare field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u82	That is clear to me, but the point remains that it can happen that people do not register and yet are registered as having no objection. That is already an imperfection that should be addressed. It is also true that when someone objects to a doctor as a next of kin, we are talking about a burden of proof and how high it is. In the evaluation, we'll see if that leads to painful circumstances. I think you should rule that out. So the moment you want a legal arrangement that affects all Dutch people, you will have to make it clear in the law. The moment you don't, you leave too much room for a lot of unrest, unrest that currently lives in the country. That could prevent that law. You didn't. There should be sufficient grounds for doing so in a better way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u83	Of the burden of proof, we have just said that you should not make it difficult, especially for those who can make it plausible that the registered 'no objection' does not correspond to the deceased's wish. For them, you should give space to the conversation, the dialogue between doctor and next of kin. But it's very good to record that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u84	Mr Koffeman, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u85	A term like "you shouldn't make it too heavy" is legally as buttery as driving foot on a residential heirloom. No one can deal with that in terms of enforcement. We will have to do something with that law in terms of enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u86	I note that this is no different from the current law on organ donation: that is where this is happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u87	Further on from the applicant's long reply to the Nooren motion. Do you see Mrs Nooren's motion on the role of the next of kin and the standards that the PvdA believes should be laid down as an addition to your bill or do you see it as a refinement of all kinds of things that your bill already contains?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u88	As far as I am concerned, it is both: it is an addition in the sense that care practice is further defined, which is regulated by AMvB, which is also being pre-established. That is important, that is also what the Minister has promised and a refinement in the sense that what is already the healthcare practice is further harmonised, so that there are not very many different practices in the different protocols.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u89	"Both" is a very political answer, I would almost say. But an addition, at least that is how the motion reads. And you read the motion in such a way that it is of great importance to a number of questioners that a number of substantive guarantees be given to the Minister in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u90	Mr Van Dijk has already asked for guarantees. I can only endorse what Mr De Grave said about this: that quality standard lays down how it is handled in the field, in healthcare practice. It is also very important that this is also the practice, that this practice really takes shape. But that does not mean that the Minister is putting in place a number of rules that should all be included in them. But I am also curious about the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u91	Mr. Van Dijk, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u92	Finally, indeed, I would just like to say briefly, having heard everything, that the Nooren motion has no added value in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u93	That seems to me to be a very curious explanation of the words I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u94	I was stuck with the words of the initiator: we do not change the practice. That's true, because that's not what the law says. And now she does want to influence it indirectly through the motion in protocols, not in the law. So that remains at odds. And another thing: initiator states that the bill regulates not the position of next of kin, but the registration. But it does change the position of next of kin, because where they have the right to consent under the current law, they no longer have that in the new bill and can only object if they think that the registration is not in line with the person concerned's wishes. So in that sense, the bill is about the position of next of kin that it is a substantial change compared to the current law. So to say that we are not doing anything about it, I think it is very one-sided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u95	When you talk about registration and the removal of organs, you can't get around next of kin. Of course, Mrs Martens is right about that. But the bill does not have the status of next of kin as a core standard. The starting point of this law is the wish of the person who died and who either said yes or said no or "I leave it to my next of kin" or did not respond and did not object. Of course, that's not on its own. I want to point that out over and over again. This is also mentioned in the law, and it is also mentioned in Mr Koffeman's motion. But of course it is important that there is very good information and information available to everyone, so that everyone can know what it does not mean to register. In doing so, we have already discussed in the previous deadlines that there may always be people who do not understand or who do not want to register. Then there is "no objection', but the next of kin then have "that guarantee for this group of people'. This is the possibility to make it plausible, as stated in the bill, that the wish registered is not in accordance with the wishes of the person registered with no objection. So this is really a sophistication.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u96	For the sake of clarity, according to the initiator, the core of the legislative proposal is not the position of next of kin. That is precisely the problem we are dealing with today with the Nooren motion, because it is not included in the legislative proposal. I'd like to have noticed that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u97	In fact, we are talking so much about next of kin because of the unsatisfactory situation of supposed consent. This is how the debate ended last week. I would like to put a question to Mrs Dijkstra. You embrace the motion-Nooren in last week's version and in this week's version. In my view, something has remained the same. Now it is also about the position of people who have given explicit consent. Now we are talking about the role of next of kin, and now we are putting so much emphasis on this, and we are also talking about the possibility that they can overrule that explicit consent. Serious concerns on the part of the survivors can therefore lead to a person who has given explicit consent, no organ donation, no removal of organs, taking place. How do you respond to that? 'Cause that was noticed last week. So that is actually a weakening of what you intend to do in your law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u98	Again: in the current law on organ donation there is also that possibility. I have just tried to state in my further explanation that the doctor is not required to take out. This means that the doctor, who also has to take account of the next of kin and the possible psychological distress of the next of kin, may decide not to make organ donation for that reason. I know that this has indeed generated a great deal of reaction, because it has given the impression that this is being introduced in the legislative proposal before us, but that is no different than it has been in the law since 1998 and it is working in practice. I have also indicated that, in about 10% of cases, this is also the case with an explicit yes registration. Of course, you would like a yes from the person who has actively determined it to be a yes, but there may be several reasons. I have just indicated that it may also be that the organs are not at all suitable. The medical history of the person concerned must be known, but it is also possible that the next of kin will be in such a situation that the doctor must decide not to take that decision. I read that again this morning in De Volkskrant, in an interview with Mr Abdo, who speaks on behalf of the Association for Intensive Care. He indicates that you must also bear in mind that as a doctor you can weigh that the person who has registered yes did not know that this would cause such a great emotional problem for the relatives and that you can therefore decide that you should not take it out. But that's exactly why you can't lay this down in a law but leave it to healthcare practice, because there will be cases where a doctor is forced to deal with the next of kin in a different way than maybe... But then it's about exceptions. That, of course, is what I am saying. The core standard is that the registration and wish of the person who has been registered are paramount. The exception situations are set out in the protocols. To my taste, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u99	Thanks for the answer. I also know that 10%, and I fully agree with you that we should try to minimise the number of cases where this happens, in the case of explicit consent. But my fear, which I have now expressed, is that we may be moving in the opposite direction through this discussion and that it is stressed that even in those situations where there are serious objections, there is no question of taking out organs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u100	I have also heard from this Chamber that it is very important for people to be very well informed about what the law is proposing. So you have to see that we have to take this into account and that people are aware of that, because the bill is also intended to get that conversation going very well. So these are all elements that should also be included in this major information campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u101	The initiator says that this bill does justice to the wishes of the deceased. How can it maintain that this bill does justice to that, while the desire of non-registered people or those who have not yet been able to make that choice is still deemed to be respected? I do not understand that, because that is the way this bill is losing its purpose, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u102	I have indicated that it is very important that there are guarantees that will enable the largest possible group in the Netherlands to be informed. Anyone who is not registered will then be rewritten if they do not respond and will then receive confirmation of how they are entered in the register. A large information campaign is being conducted, in which there is also a very explicit place for people who are difficult to reach, low-literate and non-lingual. The Minister also promised on this subject that he would do everything in his power to shape it. In short, there is a guarantee in this and then we have regulated in the law that if there are any doubts about the wishes that are registered, the next of kin can make that plausible. That's the end of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u103	Mr. Van Kesteren. I would like to confine the debate to Mr Koffeman's motion and the motion, because that is what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u104	I would like to point out that the Nooren motion places a responsibility on the next of kin, while I believe that the primary responsibility lies with the potential donor. If this decision not to register or not to make a choice can or will not be taken, it should also be respected in the law. Do you agree or do you say: no, we do not have a message?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u105	It seems clear to me that the legislative proposal also seeks to implement the wish of those who have registered, but precisely because there is a possibility that in some way people have not had sufficient knowledge of the need to register and are therefore registered with 'no objection', the next of kin will then have the floor to make that plausible. Mr. Chairman. I think I've tried as much as I can to answer and respond to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mrs Dijkstra. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Four comments on my part, first of all a response to Mrs Nooren's modified motion. The original motion sought to include in the quality standard that a doctor does not make organ donation if there are no survivors or if survivors have serious objections to donation. I note that the amended motion now calls for the division of roles between the physician and the next of kin to be recorded. The modified motion is in line with my previous commitment to the Senate. I stressed that I would like to discuss the development of a quality standard with the field. In my opinion, the amendments are not such as to alter the previous assessment of the motion. The cabinet will therefore leave the decision on the motion to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u108	For the sake of clarity, I would ask the Minister whether he interprets the amended Nooren motion in the same way as the authors, as was just said by Mr De Grave. I would ask that to clarify its interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u109	I agree with the view expressed by the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u110	The petitioners of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u111	Yeah, yeah. Certainly, the authors of the motion, all in all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u113	I am very curious, because we saw quite a few interpretations of the motion. What interpretation do you choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u114	We are pretending to be able to make a leap forward here if we are going to discuss with the field in order to achieve such a division of roles, such a system of agreements. In the first term, I also asked for that space to be kept so that the field could be consulted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u115	The Minister is asking for space and I can imagine that from his point of view. I have just quoted the explanation of the motion, which explicitly sets out the substantive framework conditions and standards for those relatives. You have no message about this, and I understand from Mrs Nooren's body language that she actually does not consider that explanation to be written.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u116	I don't know what to deduce from that, but I think it's all elements that I'd like to involve in such a conversation with the field. I think it is a good thing that we leave the professionals to speak on this issue, together with relatives and also with a party like the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u117	The Minister's view is perfectly clear to me, but I would like to explain it in addition to the motion. I would like to quote it again: 'in substance, we (the proposers) want it to be established that serious objections from relatives do not result in the removal of organs, even if there are no survivors'.' The Minister says he doesn't have a message about that right now, just in my own words. He just wants to be open, without any preconditions. This explanation is therefore not leading him as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u118	I would like to include all the elements in the recitals in the motion; all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u119	You will see that this is an important part of the debate. What is your answer to the question I have asked, namely: what is going to be in this AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u120	I wasn't ready for that. We were talking about what needed to be included in the quality standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u121	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u122	I'd like to make a leap forward, although I wanted to deal with things in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u123	Perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u124	Let me do that for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u125	Then I'll just salt up my potential interruption until later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u126	Let's go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u127	Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u128	Mr. Chairman. If Mr De Grave can't wait, I'll go into what comes in the AMvB. In the AMvB it only appears that there will be a quality standard. The content is not regulated in the AMvB. The quality standard will be discussed with the doctors, with patients, with health insurance companies. To conclude, the quality standard is finally incorporated into the hospital protocols. So there's a law. It indicates that there is an AMvB and the AMvB indicates that there will be a quality standard. I'm sure it is. I see that in the future, but I do not want to anticipate things, a quality standard can be developed over the years. I have already replied to Mr De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u129	Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the AMvB. It refers to Article 23. What we are talking about now is a quality standard and any substantive provisions according to the Nooren motion, which you are discussing with the field and then it comes back. According to Article 23, this is about how next of kin can make it plausible that the deceased's wish is not what the registration says. But the motion calls for something quite different, namely to define the role of next of kin differently. Of course it is always possible to talk to the field about that, but then you talk about two very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u130	In the passage in the motion dealing with Article 23, it is about anchoring the quality standard in the AMvB. As far as the cabinet is concerned, that will meet with no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u131	Even then, he can't go beyond what the law writes about, can he? That is exactly what is being asked here. As I said in my contribution: the Minister shaves a little. Of course, the Minister can create an AMvB, but the subject of discussion is what he will refer to, also in terms of content. The Minister is very good at that, but he doesn't really give any clarity about the content, other than that he is going to talk to the field about that content.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u132	Mr President, the Minister does not want to shave here at all; we are saving it for another moment of the day. I'd like to say again what's going to be in the AMvB. In the AMvB it only appears that there will be a quality standard. How do we get the quality standard? By talking to the field about that. C'est tout.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u133	At the same time, the motion calls for the above division of roles between doctors and next of kin to be recorded. That is also a wording that has been passed before; what that means is to record. This division of roles also refers, of course, to the possibility of family members saying no. In that case it is a question of substantive standards which, through the quality standard, end up in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u134	If I read the motion correctly, the word capturing is attached to the word roles between doctors and next of kin. Let us first have that conversation, with a view to a division of roles and with a view to establishing a quality standard, because that is indeed a tangible document. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two questions left. One is Mr Van Dijk's question about whether the Minister agrees with the standards for legislation. Mr Van Dijk referred to the e-mail sent by your Registrar. I certainly agree with those standards and I underlined the passage in the e-mail. I am now quoting from the e-mail: 'The core standards of a legislative complex should not be laid down in delegated legislation, but in the law itself'. In the discussion we are discussing, I consider that as a core standard the obligation of doctors to inform relatives who are already in the WOD and who are also in the legislative proposal, so that is well arranged, I think. Then there is the second point. "In the case of delegated regulations, do not deviate from standards laid down in the law itself." I also believe that this is being met. What the bill does is make a clarification and not a deviation. That's my interpretation of the Warrior's message. Then I have one more question from Mrs Martens. Are there no other or stricter requirements in the AMvB in relation to the law? That was about the Nooren motion. The motion does not deviate from the current law and the initiative proposal, but clarifies the position of the next of kin. The current law and the own-initiative proposal already regulates the obligation for doctors to inform survivors. This means, in practice, that if no next of kin can be traced, organ donation cannot be made. In addition, the existing practice is that if there are serious objections, organ donation is not carried out. In her letter and also in the debate, the initiator clearly explained that both situations are existing practice. The motion calls for this existing practice to be established. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-7.u136	Before suspending the sitting, I should first like to say that, after the suspension, the Koffeman motion will first be voted on because it is the most far-reaching. The vote will then be taken on the Nooren motion and then on the legislative proposal. All the votes, both on the Koffeman motion and on the Nooren motion and on the bill, are joint and several. There are therefore three roll-call votes.
