ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Gas Act and to the Mining Act on Minimising Gas Extraction from the Groningen Field (34957). I would like to welcome the spokesmen and, of course, the people in the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Eleven speakers have come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u3	On 29 March, Minister Wiebes presented a decision to reduce gas extraction to zero by 2030. In 2022 or possibly a year earlier, gas extraction would be below the level of 12 billion. The decision was considered historic. Even though I thought and think that we should go to 12 billion m much earlier and then to 0, I was really happy at first. One step at last! The minister promised to come up with a law right away to settle this. The big question of this debate is: where is the law? 'Cause the law that's in front of us today isn't. The law before us today does not set a date for gas extraction to go to 12 billion m. The law before us today does not contain a date when the gas extraction will be terminated. The law that is before us today means that we cannot intervene immediately after a quake, as is the case now, but have to wait until the gas year is over. The law before us today limits the supervisory powers. The law before us today does not rule that the safety of the Groningers is paramount. The law that is before us today will ensure that those who are liable for damages and reinforcement are no longer regulated. And that's the worst thing that ever happened to Groningen's second-class citizens. The law before us today ensures that where everyone in the Netherlands can go to court on the basis of the Law on Economic Crimes, Groningers can no longer do so. Am I a second-rate citizen? Are Groninger's second-class citizens? Surely the House of Representatives should never agree to a law that will make some of the inhabitants of the country less entitled to safety and less able to fight injustice in court? Mr. Chairman. I was wondering, and I wonder why we're dealing with such a law here at all. This is not the law that has been promised. As far as I'm concerned, we're sending him back to the drawing board. This afternoon I made a proposal to that effect, a proposal supported by the Gasberaad and Groninger Bottom Movement, the main civil society organisations. They also say that this law is not ready to be put to the vote. Since the majority of this Chamber has decided that we are going to deal with the law today, I would like to discuss a number of points, namely the level of gas extraction, safety and duty of care, liability for damage and reinforcement, supervision and deal with Shell and Exxon. Mr. Chairman. Today we are officially debating the minimalisation of gas extraction in Groningen. That's a rather euphemistic name, because the current laws don't regulate that. In fact, in the annex sent to us by the Minister on page 28: "(...) the cabinet chooses to gain more gas from the Groningen field in the coming years than is desirable from a seismic point of view. As a result, more tremors are expected to occur (...)." As I said, there is no legal requirement when the extraction of gas is below the level of 12 billion m per year recommended by SodM and temporarily considered safe. There is no legal provision when gas extraction is completely discontinued, whereas the Minister made promises about it in his letter of 29 March, the letter that was described as historic. Mr. Chairman. On 29 March, the Minister wrote: 12 billion m per October 2020, or possibly a year earlier, and eventually in 2030, full termination of gas extraction. I'd like to ask the Minister to settle this legally. Groningers want clarity and finally a reliable government. This needs to be documented. To make it easy for the Minister, the SP has already tabled an amendment. Mr. Chairman. It's not just about the purpose, it's about the means. How are we going to ensure that gas extraction goes down and ends as quickly as possible and rather much faster? The law gives GTS and GasTerra influence on the Minister's decision how much gas can be extracted annually. The province rightly points out in its view that this gives a substantial influence on the decision to companies with a direct commercial interest in the quantity of gas to be supplied to final customers. The monitoring, SodM, is also very critical and pointed out that we should not only legally oblige them to reduce gas extraction, but advised them to accept legally that they want to do so as soon as possible. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. On January 8, there was an earthquake at Zeerijp, an earthquake that I felt in the city. I was hoping for a brief moment that it was close, that it was in town, that it wouldn't be too bad. But the earthquake was not easy and caused a lot of damage, a lot of unrest and a lot of insecurity. After the earthquake, the surveillance code red announced. Within 48 hours, the NAM had to come up with measures. Less than a month later, the NAM was forced to stop the gas extraction at the Loppersum cluster. At the moment it is also in Groningen code orange. Yesterday, SodM warned that safety risks will increase in the coming year. The KNMI also warns that the chance of a quake does not decrease, but increases. In January we could intervene immediately after an earthquake. If we vote for this law, we can't do it anymore. That cannot be true, I would ask the Minister. Why do we have to wait until the gas year is over before we can intervene? The SodM warned that it could take six to nine months for intervention to take effect. We can't deliberately put people in danger, can we? The SP has therefore tabled an amendment to this point. Mr. Chairman. One of the most cynical parts of the law is the concept of security introduced. Soon you'll be able to claim with dry eyes that you put safety first, while you deliberately put Groningers at risk. How does that trick work? Security of supply is also seen as a security issue in the future. Even the importance of employment will be taken into account in future, says Professor Bröring, for example. The Council of State is tough on this point and argues that security is above social interest and above security of supply. They therefore denounce Article 52d, which gives the Minister the free authority to adopt and amend the operational strategy, allowing him to involve the security interest and the social interest and not to give priority to security. So many times it has been promised that safety must be paramount. That's not gonna be taken care of right now. Both the Council of State and the SodM are really hard on this point. The SodM is ready-to-use: in the Minister's balancing of interests, seismic security must be separated from security of supply and its balancing must be made visible and follow-up. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Will the Minister finally put security first? Does he want to disconnect the security of the Groningers from the security of supply? In order to help the Minister, we must have tabled an amendment; that is number three. Mr. Chairman. This law makes Groninger's second-class citizens. Everywhere in the Netherlands where gas is extracted, it is absolutely clear who is liable for damage and for any reinforcement. Everywhere in the Netherlands where gas is extracted, residents can bring an action on the basis of the Law on Economic Crimes. In Groningen, we're not gonna be able to do that anymore if we pass this law. It can't be true that we're making the Groningen second-class citizens. That feeling has been felt by many Groningers for a very long time; the feeling not to matter; that the government is not on their side. How is it that, after so many fine promises, we still have a law before us in which Groninger becomes second-class citizens? I keep repeating it: I find it impossible for us to deal with a law in which this is the case at all. The province says: this law does not comply with the obligation of the European Convention on Human Rights to provide for judicial proceedings to effectively and fairly settle disputes relating to the violation of fundamental rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. I want to know from the Minister: if the NAM is no longer a criminal offence, then who is? Or isn't anyone criminalized anymore? I'd like to know from the Minister how he figured this out. The SP has tabled an amendment to amend the law on this point and to ensure that the duty of care is maintained and that the offence remains an economic offence. That duty of care and liability is really an essential point for my party. The Council of State is also extremely firm on this point: make clear who is responsible. Professor Bröring states that there should be no ambiguity as to who is liable for unlawful acts on what grounds. Nevertheless, the Minister leaves that ambiguity in the law. Who's liable now? Minister, are you going to settle this in the law? So if we pass the law as it is, we don't know who is responsible for damages and reinforcements. Article 33 of the Mining Act is no longer in force. That law is now the basis for the entire reinforcement operation. Groningers do not get more but less security and rights. And then, on Monday, there was a general agreement with Shell and Exxon; an agreement was reached without first submitting it to the Chamber. A bizarre situation, and I shall come back to that later in my speech. The NAM, Shell and Exxon are now allowed to hold a larger share of the profits of the gas extraction, but a larger share of the costs comes from the State. Is it correct if I assume that the state will pay more for compensation and reinforcement? On Tuesday, we talked about damages and reinforcements in this room. I'm working on making a black book on handling old damage. It's unbelievable how many sad stories I'm getting sent. Many Groningers want clarity and certainty, and they don't get it now. This law also restricts supervision. As I mentioned earlier, the SodM will no longer be able to intervene immediately after an earthquake. Groningers have to wait. The SodM can give an unsolicited opinion, but the Minister will not have to do anything with it anymore. The SodM is more critical of this law. The SodM says that it can only monitor safety with this law and has significantly fewer handles to prevent damage. The SodM says that it is no longer required to advise the Minister on security risks related to longer-term scenarios for his balance of interests. This makes the balancing of interests more difficult. The first version of the law stated that damage in Groningen no longer had to be prevented, but only limited. Fortunately, the Minister has adapted this. But what does the SodM say about that? It says that the Minister did amend the law, but did not make it really part of the measurement and control protocol. It's there, but it's not clear if and how it's arranged. In this Chamber it has been pointed out so often that the monitoring of gas extraction has failed in recent years. The surveillance was on EZK's lap, was put there. And now it's finally getting better. And now the Minister is going to restrict the possibilities for supervision again. I ask the Minister to amend the law on this point. In addition to an amendment, we also have a motion on this. And then there was a deal with Shell and Exxon on Monday; another deal with Shell, I better say, because the cabinet is quite of that. On Monday there was a deal that was not submitted to the House of Representatives, a deal on which there is still much unknown, but which is already a legally binding agreement. A deal about which questions were asked from the Chamber; they were answered when I had to walk to the chair. Not only has the Chamber not been consulted in advance, but it is still not sufficiently aware of this in order to be able to say something meaningful about it. Just on such a sensitive subject, a subject that affects the House's budget right. Why couldn't the House of Representatives decide in advance? Mr. Chairman. What exactly was the news of that deal? That Shell and Exxon guarantee and not file claims? They've repeated that over and over again, haven't they? The Minister has said over and over again that we did not have to worry about that. The news was that Shell and Exxon get a larger share of the profits, of the profits. They're gonna make more profit on gas extraction. I'd really like to know from the Minister who's going to pay for that. Will the Netherlands' households pay more for the reduction of gas extraction? The State bears a larger share of the costs, including for damages and reinforcement. Oh, yeah, there was other news: there was going to be a fund. The NAM would account for half of that. 500 million. But what soon turned out to be? It's only 10% anyway. The rest of you pay the state. 1 billion is not enough to give Groningen perspective and future again after the disaster. 1 billion is a waste, and also a waste from our own wallet. But there was more news. I am now quoting the main points of the agreement. Some of it's been wiped out, but the next thing I know, it's there. On page 3 it says that the whole agreement can be re-examined if I quote 'the legislation provided for in this agreement does not come into being or is produced but does not have the effect as foreseen'. On page 14 it says: "The State will make best efforts to implement the new legislation it intends to adopt." What does this mean, Minister? Really? A deal with Shell and Exxon stating that this law, which we are discussing today, must pass through the Chamber unchanged, because otherwise the deal will not go through? Who's in charge here, Minister? Do the signatories of the deal now force the State, Shell and Exxon to swallow laws unchanged or slightly modified? Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to do that. After so much criticism from the Council of State, from State surveillance of the Mines, the regulator and many, many others, the civil society organisations from Groningen, the Groninger Gasberaad and the Groninger Bottom Movement, but also the province and legal scholars such as Professor Bröring, the minister should have taken back and improved the law. I think this is an outrageously bad law, an outrageously bad deal with Shell and Exxon. I have tabled five amendments and I have five motions with me. Mr President, I will conclude. We were to discuss today a law that would regulate the reduction of gas extraction in Groningen. A law that would finally give Groningers certainty and clarity, the certainty and clarity that Groningers are so eager for. Last week we had a round table here about the psychological consequences of gas extraction. Everyone made it very clear: Groningers become ill, not only from the quake and damage, but especially from the behaviour of the government, which does not support them, does not take their side, trains each time and creates uncertainty. And that's what we're doing again with this law. A law which must regulate the reduction of gas extraction, but which is not laid down by law when gas extraction is at the temporary level of 12 billion cubic metres. A law that must regulate the reduction of gas extraction, but which is not laid down by law when we stop. A law that prevents us from acting immediately after a quake, as is the case now, but has to wait until the gas year is over. A law that governs that the safety of the Groningers is not paramount. A law that no longer regulates who is liable for damage and reinforcement. A law that makes Groninger's second-class citizens. The law before us today ensures that, while everyone in the Netherlands can go to court on the basis of the Law on Economic Crimes, Groningers can no longer do so. A law that has to be changed by parliament because otherwise we will not comply with a contract with Shell and Exxon. My party can never support that in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u4	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the beginning of gas extraction in the 1960s, the State has made huge profits from the Groningen gas. The natural gas revenues are now hundreds of billions. Where's the money? What happened to all that? It's been published, it's gone. A country like Norway has been so wise to put oil revenues in an oil fund from day one: a huge savings fund for later, with about 1,000 billion in it. But out of the hundreds of Dutch gas billions, nothing is left at all. Not a tenner has been set aside for mining damage, while the first quakes in Groningen started in the eighties. Instead, the money has been wasted on disaster projects such as the Betuweroute and the high-speed line. In the meantime, the Groningen people are waiting for compensation. It's incomprehensible. While former Minister Kamp insisted that the gas extraction in Groningen could not be reduced, it must be done now. It's about time. Now there's a bill and a gas deal to settle. First of all, on the law. A national disaster is taking place in Groningen. If Groningen is to recover, the gas extraction must be stopped there. First to the relatively safe level of 12 billion cubic metres a year and then to 0. By 2030, the extraction from the Groningen field shall be completed. The Minister has expressed this wish loud and clear on several occasions. But why didn't he choose to include them explicitly in the bill? Does he then sneak into account that in the future gas extraction can or will go up sharply again? Basically, we have to believe the Minister on his blue eyes, because how does he guarantee that in the coming years, including future Cabinets, extraction will actually fall, if this is not legally established? He can't give that guarantee at all. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In deciding how much gas is still to be extracted, the Minister balances the security risks and security of supply, i.e. between the interests of the inhabitants of the earthquake area and the interests of all gas dependents. Of course that all sounds nice and nice, but it remains vague as well. How are we supposed to see this in practice? For if there has been a failure in recent years, then it is this so-called balancing of interests. That is to say, the interests of the Groningen people have been subordinate for many years, especially when, during the Rutte II cabinet, gas extraction was increased just as quickly in 2013. State supervision of the Mines then spoke of a "disputed decision." And, "A lot of risks were deliberately taken." I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. As has been said, the Minister finally decides how much gas will be extracted. He does so in his so-called "operational strategy." But then the Minister can change his decision by taking a temporary measure if the demand for gas from the Groningen field changes substantially. What changed question are we talking about here? An increased demand, we can assume. When is that acceptable to the Minister? And when isn't it? Firstly, how objective is the question of gas to be determined at all? Secondly, the legislative proposal makes it possible for gas extraction in the future to continue to rise dramatically in 2013 after Minister Kamp. I'm not asking if the Minister wants that, but if it's possible under this law. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The NAM executes. The NAM implements a temporary measure taken by the Minister as a result of increased gas demand. The NAM does so in such a way that "the adverse effects of gas extraction are mitigated as much as possible'. That is certainly contradictory, because we are talking here about the adverse effects of the gas extraction that has been blocked by increased demand. How can we limit these adverse effects other than by not increasing the production of gas, but actually reducing it? Then how do you do that in practice? If the NAM does anything, she can leave it. What happens if the NAM doesn't perform its task? There's nothing about that in the bill. Mr. Chairman. According to the bill, the NAM is subject to a mining obligation: the NAM must gain as much gas as the minister imposes on it. Normally that would mean that the liability of the NAM lapses. For lovers: that is article 178 of book 6 of the Civil Code. But that is what the Minister has found in his bill: he does not declare that article applicable. That sounds good, of course, but what does that mean? How can we prevent the NAM from pointing to the Minister and say: yes, but we of the Minister's NAM have to pump up so much and so much, so that does not fall under our risk, so we are not liable. How legally sustainable is it when you order someone to do something, something that clearly causes damage, and then says: yes, but you did it, so you're liable? The key question is: how does the Minister prevent legal confusion on this point, of which, as always, the Groningers are the victims? Then there is the gas deal, a deal with Shell and Exxon, a deal that was secretly made without the Chamber having been able to find any of it, although almost the entire opposition had requested it. What's in the gas deal? The involvement of the NAM is limited to the payment of the damages settlement and the reinforcement notice. That's very good, but it's already been promised, isn't it? Shell and Exxon ensure adequate finances at the NAM. Fine too, but yes, that was a promise, wasn't it? Also not unimportant: a few months ago the rumor was that the NAM prepared a billion-dollar claim against the State because of the gas reserves that will not be won anymore, but now it is agreed in the deal that no claim will be filed. That is of course important, because the NAM owns the gas that is still in the soil, with an estimated value of about 70 billion. But the gas deal is also certainly lucrative. For who? For the NAM. The Shells of this world are already extensively pampered by this cabinet with tax benefits of many billions and it seems to be unstoppable. From now on, the NAM will not receive 10% of its gas revenues, but 27%. If we start counting, it turns out that the NAM will yield some EUR 2 billion. First of all, why? Why is this happening? Is it a buy-off, so the NAM doesn't file a claim for damages with the State? Is it simply the following, yet another gift given away? Or does the NAM need this money now that the gas extraction is reduced and the revenues are reduced? After all, the Minister writes in his letter: the costs for the NAM have increased considerably in recent years. Can the Minister explain this? Because, as said and also agreed in the deal, Shell and Exxon have given the guarantee that the NAM can always meet its commitments. Then why should the NAM be compensated by the State? Are Shell & co's promises worth nothing? I'd like a response. Mr President, what are the Minister's words really worth? Because in his letter to the Chamber, he talks about strengthening the economy and viability in the region of Groningen. Shell and Exxon should also contribute to this. I quote the Minister: 'This has resulted in a contribution from NAM of 500 million euros'. That is a very concrete sentence. No pin to get in, you'd say. But in practice it doesn't seem to be true at all. The NAM not only receives 27% of the profits but also has to pay 27% of the costs, so on balance, the NAM does not pay 500 million to the Groningen Fund, but only 135 million. Then the Minister can write in his last letter, which we received just half an hour before this debate, that the NAM is making 500 million available, but on balance we are talking about 135 million. That's a slap in the ass, isn't it? And why, Mr. Chairman? How does the Minister explain to the people of Groningen that the NAM, responsible for all suffering and misery, is once again reduced? Could the Minister please tell us how many houses can be strengthened for EUR 2 billion? That's probably a lot of them, a lot of them. The PVV says no more tens, no more euros, no more cents to the NAM, Shell and Exxon. This money must be spent on damages and nothing else. The victims have been waiting far too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u7	Mr. Chairman. We had a brief order debate earlier today on whether we should deal with this law today. I think it is important that we do that today. We have just heard two speakers, from the SP and from the PVV, with many questions. I'll have a few questions in a minute. I think it is good, after the written round that we have had, after the technical briefings we have had, that we are entering into the debate with the Minister today and also giving the Minister the opportunity to clarify some aspects of this legislative amendment. Mr. Chairman. De Volkskrant has today published an article following the advice of the State Monitoring of Mines on the phasing-out of gas extraction and the follow-up of the reinforcement operation. That article has pictures of a family from Zeerrijp. I visited this family together with my colleague Antje Diertens in Groningen at the beginning of this year. They live in a beautiful, historic farmhouse in the middle of the village. A house that they have made with great love over the last few years into a beautiful home. But this farm was previously marked "unsafe" as a result of gas extraction and will need to be substantially strengthened. The whole house needs to be trashed. It was mainly the impact that this has on family life that has made a great impression on me and has also convinced me that during this cabinet period we must ensure that the Groningen dossier is finally resolved properly. I wish this family and all those other Groningers in these similar situations much strength and strength. We are here today in a long series of debates on Groningen. There's been a lot going on lately. Sometimes it is also difficult to keep track of what steps the Chamber is taking again and what its impact on Groningen is. I also understand that people in Groningen have lost the thread from time to time. My group assesses every step of this cabinet along the measuring line of the question: what good is it for the Groningers? So is this bill. Mr. Chairman. On January 8, 2018, Groningen was shocked again by an earthquake. It was a 3.4-force quake that led to 5,654 new claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u8	I see an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u9	I recognize what Mr Jetten just said, that there is news every day. Not only is there news, but there are also important developments that are all interrelated. I ask him whether he is also able as a spokesman to maintain the overview. The law we are discussing tonight also touches on the agreement that has been concluded and on the opinion on the reinforcement that is yet to come. As a Member of Parliament, do we really have the information position to be able to make a balanced assessment of all these steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u10	I notice it's hard work, for all of us as spokesmen on this file. The same applies, I believe, to officials in the ministry and people in the region. I think that, as a standing committee, we have found a good way of organizing technical briefings and written rounds of questions for this type of major debate. Sometimes there is also a round table, where we invite people from the region. At least that helps me to properly assess these types of legislative proposals. At the same time, I do not believe that we can solve the issue of Groningen with one big blow, with one big debate. It is a lot of steps that we have to take together and all of them must lead to the safety of Groningers being paramount, that we have a decent damage settlement and that this reinforcement operation is being restarted. For me, therefore, it is also a bit of an expectation management that we have already had a lot of debates, that we still have a lot of debates to have, but that we simply need to be strong together that every step this minister takes is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u11	I understand. Thanks for the answer. I believe that it is a question of moving forward in many respects and that we must take and take new steps each time. At the same time, this is a law which, if adopted, will apply at some point. Then it's a lot harder to adjust it. In any case, I would like to know from Mr Jetten whether he thinks it wise for me to have the finalisation of this legislative procedure and the votes taken only after we have had the debate on the reinforcement operation next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u12	I understand Mr Van der Lee's suggestion. I can't answer that right now. A lot of questions have just been asked. I'll ask you some more questions. I think that is also true of all those who have spoken after me. I think we should wait for the Minister's reply to see whether we can conclude the debate today or not until next week. I suggest that at the end of this debate we answer that question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u14	Mr. Chairman. I told you, on 8 January, Groningen was once again shocked by an earthquake. That earthquake led to 5,654 new reports of damage. For Groningen, this earthquake was yet another blow. State surveillance on the Mines sent out a clear signal: it's code red. For D66, the advice of State surveillance always weighs heavily. After the earthquake in Zeerijp, it was clear to my group what this minister had to do: to implement the advice as quickly as possible and to reduce the extraction of gas to a maximum of 12 billion cubic metres. But we already knew then that, even if the gas extraction goes back to 12 billion, there is uncertainty in Groningen, that thousands of homes will be left to strengthen and that the reinforcement operation will be far too slow. So we couldn't go on like this. That is why the cabinet took the historic decision on 29 March to completely stop extracting gas from the Groningenveld. That's the only way to completely remove the cause of tremors and soil decline. But how quickly does the minister get results? It is now clear that the phasing-out to the demand of Groningen gas can go quickly. The safe level of 20 billion can be reached by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u15	12 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u16	Sorry, it's 12 billion. Thank you, Minister, for this improvement. Thus, by 2020, the safe level of 12 billion can be reached. We could be at zero in ten years. The State surveillance therefore notes that it is rapidly making it much safer in Groningen. That is of course good news, but that is not the end of the matter, because the damage recovery and the reinforcement operation also need to be much better. We are having a wide-ranging debate with the Minister next week. Now to the amendment of the Gas Act and the Mining Act. Why this change of law? I have just said that the decline in demand for Groningen gas can go quickly, including through the conversion of large consumers, less exports and the construction of a nitrogen plant. With this law, we ensure that less demand for Groningen gas will actually lead to less extraction from the Groningen field. We're not gonna get any more gas than is strictly necessary. D66 supports the idea of legalising this no-more-than-needed principle as an additional guarantee on the promise made by this cabinet to close the gas tap as quickly as possible. During a technical briefing by the State surveillance of the Mines and officials of the Ministry of EZK, some aspects of this law have already been clearly explained, for which thanks to the people who took care of it. But my group still has a number of questions about the legislative proposal. In addition to the maximum amount of gas to be extracted, State surveillance recommends that the phasing-out of gas extraction take place as quickly as possible. How does the Minister assess this opinion? Why has this opinion not been adopted? Can the Minister confirm that this whole bill is aimed at effectively bringing gas extraction to zero as soon as possible? In determining the amount of gas to be extracted, the Minister will have to balance security for the Groningers and security of supply. In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the Minister states that these interests are different in nature and do not have an equal weighting factor. The Minister will make an administrative assessment and will attach a major importance to security. But what does this mean for the Groningen people? How will the Minister weigh these two interests against each other? Does he agree with D66 that in that consideration the safety of Groningers outweighs the security of supply? And if he agrees with me, why didn't the law explicitly place the safety of residents above the importance of security of supply? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. How can the Minister ensure that his administrative balance is understandable and follow-up for everyone, as the SodM has also advised? I have prepared an amendment on this point. In the context of the security of supply, the Act refers to the disruptive effects of long-term closure of final customers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u17	Mr Jetten talks about the lack of clarity concerning security of supply and the safety of the Groningen people. The Research Council for Security also wrote about this in its report in 2015. They have said: bring that security of the Groningen people and security of supply to different ministries. One is more financial in nature and the other has to do with health risks. Does Mr Jetten still agree with me that it should actually be transferred to different ministries because then you will clarify that security? These are two incomparable concepts which are summarised under the same heading. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that you should actually place them at different ministries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u18	Mr Wassenberg and I have often spoken about this question. I think there is indeed something to say to give other ministries a greater role in the Groningen dossier. This concerns, among other things, the mental reinforcement and the role that Public Health can play in this process. When I look at this bill, there must be an administrative balance between two different interests and there must eventually be one captain on the ship to make the decision. That captain must also be able to address us as a chamber. I understand, however, that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is the appropriate person for this particular point. Last week I was reassured by the words of the Inspector-General of State Surveillance, who says: in the current situation, we do not feel as State surveillance at all succinct in our role of sitting on that security, because we have the freedom to give unsolicited and requested advice to the Minister. I think it is well organized in practice at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u19	Well, let's get back to the practice. We also have something like the Council of Ministers, where decisions are beaten. But here's what I'm talking about. We have the Security Research Council and it has said 'put it in different ministries' and we have now had the Council of State. He did not talk about different ministries, but he did say that it is completely unclear what is meant by security. There are many different concepts. The House of Representatives has adopted a motion in which it was also said: place it with different ministries, because then these interests can be well weighed. In the end, of course, there must always be a blow. My question is again: should this not be placed in different ministries in order to be able to give another blow later, of course from above? If you represent the interests, shouldn't it be done from different ministries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u20	First of all, may I ask you to keep the interruptions short, because I think we have a very long night ahead of us. A reply from Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u21	Actually, that's two questions mixed up. How do we divide the roles between different ministries and are these two concepts of security clear enough in the law? I would like to pass on the question about the various roles of the ministries to the Minister, because I am also curious how he sees it himself. I do not think we have discussed this very extensively with the Minister before. I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that. Then there are the two concepts of safety. That is why I have just asked my question about how these two different forms of security relate to each other. I think it is very important for everyone to understand how the Minister makes that assessment. That is why I have prepared an amendment. I will come back to the security of supply in a little bit more detail in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u22	I have a question about the amendment. In particular, you are asking the Minister to give an insight into how this balance was achieved in the future. Furthermore, you believe that this should be followable. But Mr Jetten has also read the opinion of the Council of State, which actually advises something else, because they see the coherence with the strengthening operation. It doesn't go fast enough and as long as it doesn't go fast enough, it's better to give safety the highest priority. Why doesn't he support that line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u23	I certainly also think that we should give security the highest priority, and that this reinforcement operation should be speeded up and improved, I also agree with Mr Van der Lee. That is also the debate we will have with the Minister next week. My amendment deals with the following: if, because of the security of supply interests, the Minister considers that more gas can be extracted than is strictly necessary, then I want to understand why the Minister made that assessment. Then I would like to be able to call him to account. Now I come to the issue of security of supply and, if you will allow me, Mr President, I will go on, because I think that is a better answer to Mr Van der Lee's question. In the context of that security of supply, the Act refers to the "destructive effects" of long-term termination of final customers. As an example has often been mentioned a very large dairy plant which then has to be shut down and whose closure affects not only the suppliers, i.e. agricultural companies, but also supermarkets that have to supply food to the Dutch population. I understand such examples, and I also understand that the Minister wants to take these interests into account in his administrative balance, but I still have the following questions. How can a customer of Groningen gas rely on such a "destructive effect"? How long do we accept such disruptive consequences? What measures can the Minister take to encourage, or if necessary force companies to take, measures to ensure that we do not end up in such situations at all? In short, it's fine to include multiple interests in such an administrative consideration, but that shouldn't become a licence to keep asking Groningen gas until the end of time. The answers to such questions are important for me to be able to assess whether these two concepts are sufficiently defined in the law. Mr. Chairman. According to this amendment, the Minister will soon impose a mining obligation on the NAM in the operational strategy. Do I understand correctly that this is one number that can be won at most? Or is there another bandwidth with a minimum and a maximum? That's the kind of question I get from Groningen. Does the Minister also determine where this extraction will take place in the Groningen field? In this legislative proposal, the NAM as the holder of the operational strategy will have to indicate how many quakes are expected per year. Why was it chosen to invest this role in the NAM and not at the KNMI or at TNO, for example? Questions have just been asked by previous speakers about situations with increased seismicity and perhaps more tremors. What temporary measures can we take at such a time? Or is it waiting for the new operational strategy for the new mining year? Mrs Beckerman has just asked a number of questions about economic offences, and whether Groningers have the same rights as people in other parts of the country who would like to go to court. I understood from the technical briefing that the economic offence with this amendment of the law is also adequately covered by other articles in the Mining Act. Can the Minister confirm that? Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, the Minister concluded a new agreement with Shell and Exxon, a new installation of our so-called gas building. Can the Minister explain how the agreement with Shell and Exxon relates to this bill? It is good to note that with this agreement the State takes full control of the gas extraction in Groningen and that the NAM remains financially liable at all times for damages and the strengthening of unsafe houses. It is good that there will be no financial claim for gas that stays in the ground and it is good that on top of the damage and reinforcement there will also be 1 billion extra for a new perspective for Groningen. But my group also has a number of questions. Mr President, I see Mrs Beckerman standing at the interrupting microphone, but if I may, I will ask my questions first. So there are a number of questions. The Financial Dagblad reported on Tuesday to my surprise that the new revenue-cost distribution already applies to the 1 billion for a new economic perspective. Is that right, and if so, why? How does it work that the NAM is financially responsible for the costs of the multiannual budget at all times? And what is the overall multi-annual impact of this agreement on the budget, not only until 2022, but also in the years after the gas extraction stopped? My group understands that coverage will only be known to the Millions Note, but we assume that there is already a view on these costs. Does the Cabinet intend to submit to the Chamber another incidental supplementary law for 2018 this autumn for the consequences of this agreement for 2018, the current financial year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u24	I was pleased that you also asked the question about the economic crime, because for me it is a very important point that Groninger has legal certainty and can charge someone on the basis of economic crime. Do you also think that this should be regulated in the law, because there has been so much uncertainty, so much uncertainty, that we should now give as much clarity as possible? Do you agree with me that we can and should take care of this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u25	I do believe that the law should be clear when there are economic offences and what rights people have. Last week, at the technical briefing, I understood that this change in the law does not change, that other articles in the laws always ensure that you can just get your rights in such an economic crime. I'd like to hear the Minister confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u26	That's not what the SodM said at the hearing. They only said that we are not talking about what laws are being made, but we are very concerned about this. That was about the duty of care in Article 33. We believe that it should be about everything and not just about the economic crime. It's about the full duty of care. The officials literally said that there is an annual cycle and therefore there is no need for them to intervene earlier. SodM says it could take up to nine months for intervention to take effect. We have seen how terrible the consequences of an earthquake can be. Do you really think we shouldn't include this in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u27	For me, this is another two questions mixed up. The first is what you do in case of incidents. Will you be able to intervene in time? That was my question to the Minister just now. The second question is indeed about the economic crime. That is what the State's surveillance of the Mines indeed expressed concerns about during the technical briefing. After that, I believe that the officials of EZK have been able to remove these concerns. Again, I'd like to hear that from the Minister in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u28	First of all, I am pleased that Mr Jetten survived the attack of his group leader with confetti. I've seen the footage, but it looks good. I have a question about a question he just asked. He did quite ask a good number of questions about the Court's budget law and how it is all arranged. I'm very concerned about that, too. He also asked whether the amount of 500 million was clean or whether it was financed indirectly. The answer to that question was given by the Minister just before the debate. It's 135 million. My question to Mr Jetten is: what do you think of that? You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u29	I just asked the Minister why this 500 million share was agreed. I'd like to wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u30	Yes, but you also asked if it was 500 million clean. That's not true. There is much above that there is an agreement between the State and Shell and Exxon. Tough businessmen, Mrs Van Loon and Exxon's husband said: we contribute to Groningen, we support Groningen with half a billion. Now it turns out to be 135 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u31	I was just able to read the answer very briefly. That is where I read the answer to that factual question, and I have not yet read the answer to the question as to why this division has taken place. I'd like to hear that first from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u32	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u33	I need to see where I left off. Yes, Chairman, this bill is designed to ensure that we reduce gas extraction from the Groninger Field to 0.0 as soon as possible. That is the best guarantee of Groningen's safety in the long run. But Groningers also have concerns in the short term or perhaps mainly other concerns. They've been living in uncertainty and insecurity for years. They have had to wait years for decent damages to be dealt with and thousands of Groningen families are still in uncertainty about the reinforcement operation. This week, in response to the agreement with Shell and Exxon that has just been discussed, De Groningen's deputy Eikenaar rightly stated: the most important thing for Groningers is that their damaged houses are repaired and strengthened as quickly as possible. I therefore call once again on the Minister to clarify next week the follow-up to the reinforcement operation, in particular for the residents of the batch of 1588 homes. Years of uncertainty leave deep traces. This turned out to be the case again during a round table discussion on the mental reinforcement of Groningen, which we organised last week as a Chamber. Mrs Beckerman referred to that as well. It was a penetrating round table. The central message was: directing residents and supporting local initiatives that also focus on assistance and meeting, think of meetings where people can vent their hearts, but also one-on-one guidance for families that are struggling. In the coalition agreement, 50 million extra has been made available for these forms of mental and mental care, but this money is not yet being used. Is the Minister prepared to provide financial support for some local initiatives in the short term? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. There was another message these past few weeks that scared me. At the moment, the Tax Administration scares the hell out of Groningers with the message that they may miss a care allowance or child allowance because they have received compensation for a quake damage. For D66, that's unacceptable. Mr Beckerman and Mr Nijboer asked written questions about this. I, too, would like to be cleared up quickly. It cannot be the intention that people who have had to wait far too long for compensation should then be cut back on their allowances. I hope for a response from the Minister, in this debate or else at the latest next week in the debate on strengthening and repairing damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u34	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u35	Thank you, Mr President. All the issues surrounding the gas extraction in Groningen have accelerated. Hardly a day goes by unless a report is published, a law is discussed or a deal is made. It's not gonna stop. It's really very hard to keep track of and hardly to look at anymore. And everything is also connected and is in motion both literally and figuratively. This alone can understandably cause extra unrest among Groningers. But not just there, even here in the Chamber. I have just asked Mr Jetten: as a spokesperson, it is difficult to keep up with and hardly to overlook. I do not feel comfortable with the information position I have to be able to properly assess whether the steps that are being taken are the right ones. At the same time, I see and feel very much the urgency, the need to move quickly. They are necessary, because we know what damage is causing gas extraction. My predecessor has been here in the Chamber since 2015 calling for an accelerated reduction in gas production. Many motions have been tabled and many have been rejected. We're way ahead now. I have said it many times, and also congratulated the Minister, the cabinet, the coalition that they have taken the political courage and found to bring gas extraction back to 12 billion cubic metres in a few years and even to end it completely afterwards. That deserves compliments and continues to deserve compliments. I'll come back to that information position anyway. We are discussing a legislative proposal now and that is urgent, but I have some doubts about quality. I wonder if we are not in a hurry to make some avoidable mistakes. At the moment, I would like to call on the Minister to be a little more generous in the provision of information and not just to be smart in answering questions that live. I'll come right back to the letter I asked about the deal. I will come back to that in more detail later. In that letter and the deal it is said that the NAM will contribute 500 million, but in reality that turns out to be only 135 million. We know that now. They contribute formally, but if you look at who actually pays the bill, you can see that a large part of it is actually at the State's expense. These kinds of things feed distrust, while it could have been clearly explained in advance. Then everyone would have known right away where he or she was at. I sometimes notice that in the information services. It can be a little more generous, precisely to prevent unnecessary mistrust and the emergence of it. I just want that appeal done right now. Then return to the law. The urgency is enormous, I have already said it, but we must not make avoidable mistakes. At an unprecedented rate, we are dealing with this law, which has great consequences. In addition, this week it was already mentioned as the SodM's advice on reinforcements. We're gonna get another piece of advice from the Mining Board. There was also an agreement between Shell and ExxonMobil that really raises a lot of questions. It doesn't help that this happens at a time when Shell is the most widely discussed company in the Netherlands for other reasons. It has become so intertwined with our national government and unfortunately there is also the smell of boyfriend politics around it. None of that helps if we try to assess these kinds of proposals on their merits in a business way. I've decided to do my best to do justice to what it actually says and what it means, but I do realize very well that we live in that context. This sometimes leads to an escalation, to the tightening of contradictions, so that we no longer see the forest through the trees and perhaps make irresponsible choices. Hence my appeal to the Minister to deal seriously with the amendments that I have made on a number of points and with the questions that many colleagues have already asked and which I will perhaps repeat in part. For GroenLinks, the purpose of this law is extremely important. This change of law can potentially remove the cause of all damage, uncertainty, feeling of insecurity, grief and anger. That's the cause of the gas extraction itself. The fact that we need to reduce gas extraction as quickly as possible is beyond my group's control. But that should not be accompanied by even more unnecessary uncertainty. That would undermine the purpose of this legislative amendment. Thanks to this change of law, the State determines exactly how much gas needs to be extracted. It's called the no-more-than-needed principle. As a result, the State has much more control over the extraction of gas than when only a ceiling is set. With this amendment, the Minister wants to ensure that gas extraction is reduced as quickly as possible. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes this effort, but it is of course essential not to lose sight of the safety of the Groningen people and their care. This is what we're all about. It is not intended that we should make a rapid legislative change here, which, for example, puts security, transparency and control at a lower level, because gas extraction needs to be reduced as quickly as possible. I have a number of concerns about this, with many Groningers and important advisory bodies. I do not therefore know whether my group will be voting in favour of this amendment. That really depends on the opinion on the amendments and on which amendments will be adopted. First of all, on the safety issue. Everyone agrees, or should agree, that security is the most important thing. However, the law aligns security interests with, for example, economic interests or the social interest. The crux is that all interests are taken together and thrown at a great deal, both economic interests and security interests. The Minister will then have to decide on the so-called operational strategy. This is not transparent at all. This is in itself the subject of Mr Jetten's amendment. He wants that to be made clear afterwards. But the Council of State is really in favour of making it clear in advance what is a priority. He also makes a clear choice. I believe that there is still insufficient justification for not following the advice of the Council of State. I can see for myself that the safety of the Groningen people is very important, but that there are also safety aspects of not delivering gas to certain parts of society. But even then, together, this security importance could be given priority. That too is not clearly regulated by the law. Why not? I have tabled a proposal on this and I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on that amendment. The State supervision of the Mines has come up with a number of advice so that its role as a supervisor is not restricted. I would also like to make provision for an amendment to allow the SodM to intervene not only directly when people are killed and injured, but also when surprising and dangerous seismic activities are taking place. I would also like to know what the Minister's opinion is on that amendment. The SodM also advises to maintain the measurement and control protocol. This is a very important tool that indicates how the licence holder reduces the seismic risks associated with the extraction of natural gas and how such extraction is adapted if seismic events give rise to it. This provides a clear framework and more certainty and is important for safety in Groningen. We also had a discussion about this in the technical briefing. There's a possibility in the law. Why a can? This is just supposed to happen, isn't it? We understand that the measurement and control protocol requires an update in itself, so I can still imagine something about the choice of the ministerial arrangement, but it has to be clear in the law that it has to be done. I have tabled an amendment on this too. I think it would be wise for the Minister to give a positive opinion on this. On the advice of the SodM, I have also tabled another amendment, which will ensure that the gas system operator is legally obliged to carry out all his tasks in such a way as to minimise production from the Groningen field as quickly as possible. The Minister can't be against this either. Also from the reasoning that if you go for the no-more-than-needed principle, it can be very sensible to explicitly anchor this point in the law. I have tabled a number of other amendments. They strengthen the role of the SodM as a supervisor. I think it is very important that the supervisor gets a good job in order to perform his role properly. I assume the Minister agrees with me. Can he explain at this point why it was not taken over immediately? There is an advisory role and a supervisory role. Maybe some of them are mixed up. But if the supervisor indicates that certain steps put pressure on the supervisory role, I think it would be very sensible to respond immediately. Why isn't that happening? There are also serious concerns about liability and duty of care; other colleagues have already spoken about it. In my opinion, the Minister said in the previous debate that the way in which the Civil Code is temporarily suspended in the law does not deserve the beauty prize. We've been asking about that, too. Actually, there is no legal certainty that this is sustainable. In the end, it can only be determined when a case comes and the judge judges it. The Minister has also indicated that it should be better regulated in the future, but can it be indicated whether and, if so, how better to arrange it? I'm very curious about that. At present, the MAH, the NAM, has a duty to prevent adverse effects on humans and the environment, i.e. to prevent damage. The legislative proposal talks about reducing adverse effects, rather than preventing them. Article 33 of the Mining Act regulates this duty of care well, but this article is excluded by this amendment of the law; Mr Beckerman also spoke about it. What exactly does this limitation in the case of major accidents mean? Why is this necessary? This implies that it is acceptable that accidents occur, as long as there is limited injury? Is that how you want me to interpret it? What if this happens multiplely and it has serious psychological or traumatic consequences? I just don't quite understand what this means. The duty of care is currently not adequately covered. I fully agree with what Mr Beckerman said about this. In this case too, there is a good amendment that I intend to support. Then I will return to the agreement reached with Shell and Exxon. There have been very justified questions about this. We received some of the answers one minute before the debate. I've already said something about the 135 million. I would like an undertaking from the Minister that as a Chamber we will have an integral overview of all the costs that the State is going to incur or is likely to incur as a result of the gas extraction in Groningen and all the consequences thereof. I want to know exactly what the meaning of this agreement is. We're not getting part of it yet, because it's being processed in the Millions Note. Perhaps that can only relate to this agreement, while there are other issues surrounding it. It would help us all, I think, if we get an integral overview: what is already certain, what are the ranges of possible financial consequences that we as a State have to bear? Then it will always be helpful to mention what the other parties are going to wear, i.e. the NAM and in this case Shell and ExxonMobil. Like other colleagues, I really have reservations about the extent to which profits have changed. I really don't understand the need for it. I cannot judge it either because I do not know its financial implications. In that sense, I shall postpone my judgment. I have the impression, and I have also told the audience, that they are too much of a dance; I have that feeling. But I still can't make judgment clear because I don't have the data. That's why my previous question. Another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u36	I see that Mr Nijboer still has an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u37	I think it is a very well-balanced contribution from Mr Van der Lee, for which I congratulate him. But I would like to challenge him to take a bit of a stand. If the profit payments are so changed for the benefit of Shell and Exxon that the 500 million, which was already a dime, will eventually turn into 135 million in ten years or twelve years, even up to 2030, which is 10 million a year, while it is a billion-dollar business, then I expect a moral verdict. I expect him to say that it is simply not possible and that it is really disproportionate, or something similar in GroenLinkswords. But I expect something of disapproval.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u38	Maybe I haven't made myself clear. I find on the basis of what I know now that they're getting away with the dance. I can't support that either. But the problem is: I said at the beginning of my speech that the information position that I have as a Member of Parliament is not enough. That's a flaw. That's what's bothering me all the time. I'm forced to make judgments when I know I'm not fully aware of the facts. Then I can yell very loudly, that can very well be done, but that doesn't really help in this file either. Based on what I know now, I fully agree with you that this is simply not possible. But I don't know everything. In that sense, I have a certain reservation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u40	I have a specific question about the agreement in connection with the law. That question has to do with Norg, the storage. In the law it actually becomes an integral part of the Groningenveld and the gas extraction in it. If I look at what has been agreed on the profit payment, namely that what is happening in Norg is actually only subject to Vpb, then I could imagine I really don't know if you could just transfer some of the gas from Slochteren to Norg, that you're selling it from Norg and actually only have to pay Vpb about it and not the normal payment. Is that impossible? How is that excluded? As far as I am concerned, the combination between the agreement and the law is completely unclear. Norg may be able to get a function in the storage of high-caloric gas that has been processed, but until that is settled, it can also be used to move Slochterengas to Norg and sell without payment. Or am I completely wrong? I hope that the Minister will also be able to clarify this point. I have a few more questions about the agreement. It is not clear to me when this is going to happen. Has it come in yet? Is the broad agreement already in force, or can it only come into force when there is a final version, a final agreement? When's that gonna happen? Do we have any influence on that? Is there any room for negotiation, or is it done with this? We had that discussion about the Court's budgetary law. It's just not clear to me. On top of that, I would like to have an understanding of all these costs before a final agreement is concluded. I do not know when that is planned, but I would also like to be clear on that point. Then there is one specific point that may be food for specialists, but is also quite strange. There is another disagreement about the location of the Groningenveld, about the definition of what that field actually is. That's not gonna be settled, not even in the law. I understand that it can be a problem if it is unclear what we mean by the Groningen Field. Can there be more clarity on this point too? Another point that my predecessor, Mrs Van Tongeren, has mentioned before is the exit plan. We haven't had that in the Netherlands for a very long time. That's what's finally gonna happen. This is also relevant in the balance between security of supply and security of supply. How's that going? Is it also possible to distinguish between different types of targets when it comes to the supply of gas and to distinguish between safety-related targets and targets that do not? Can that be much more specific than I see it described at the moment? Can the Minister explain this further? Then there is another point: the Wadden Sea. The GroenLinks Group considers it very important that the world heritage is protected as much as possible in the Wadden Sea. At the moment there is already a ban on the creation of mining works in the Wadden region, but there is still a possibility to drill obliquely under the Wadden Sea. It is now known that this can also lead to, for example, soil decline, with all the consequences. The creation of a mining work outside a protected area does not appear to be a guarantee to prevent harmful effects resulting from mineral extraction. As far as the GroenLinks Group is concerned, nothing is happening under the Wadden Sea or under the Wadden Islands. This area is too special for that. That is why I have tabled an amendment to introduce a guarantee on this point too. I hope the Minister is prepared to support that. Mr. Chairman. It is very important that we take the right steps quickly when it comes to bringing down gas extraction. I am convinced that the Minister genuinely wants to bring gas extraction to zero as soon as possible. That is our common goal. That's what we're all going for. But it cannot be that this law, in its present form, endangers safety and care. I think there are still too many flaws in this law. I am not just saying that, but also the Council of State, the SodM, the regional authorities and interest groups. I hope that the Minister, with me and a majority in Parliament, will close these shortcomings so that we can bring gas extraction in Slochteren to zero as soon as possible in a responsible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u41	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The very first motion I tabled in this Chamber concerned a phasing-out plan for gas extraction. This motion was widely supported, so I am actually glad that we are now moving forward. 50PLUS is therefore not, in principle, dissatisfied with the scope of this law, because it is necessary to close the gas supply at a rapid but also responsible pace. At a rapid pace because the security of Groningen and its inhabitants is increasingly at stake and at a responsible pace because we as a society also have to deal with the transition from one situation to another. Apart from the reduction, 50PLUS is like a stone's throw away that we take the reinforcement with speedy speed. That's what we're gonna talk about next week. This change takes time, because large consumers and small consumers have to adapt their systems, with associated costs. The crux is in the elaboration of some provisions in the law. Firstly, the development and consideration of the concept of safety. In his decision, the Minister is concerned with security. On the one hand, these are the immediate security risks arising from the earthquakes and, on the other hand, the social importance, which is linked to security of supply, with potentially disruptive effects, is so posed. Of course it is not possible to cut a pair of scissors, but I would ask the Minister whether he would like to explain again precisely how and with what weight he weighs the interests. After all, he has already pointed out that these are really two very different quantities. When does the importance of Groningen concern him and in what situation the social interest? In other words, how much do economic interests weigh in relation to the physical safety of citizens? I'd like a response. There is also the legal issue. Several people are already connected to it. The proposal introduces the obligation to extract. On the basis of various opinions and considerations, the Minister determines the amount of gas to be extracted from the Groningen field: the so-called "operational strategy." But the NAM retains its liability. This is regulated by declaring an article in the Civil Code not applicable. That's at least a wonderful style figure. That's what the Council of State says. The Minister himself has already called it 'not beautiful'. The question is and remains whether this is legally really waterproof. Is this gonna last until the Supreme Court? Why is it not possible, in this law, to make a more definitive arrangement already? Why do we have to do that later in a separate law? And what happens in the interim period? What if something happens next week? We were not convinced in the written reply and in the technical briefings. What has the Ministry done to ensure that this is legally watertight? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS has more concerns; about people, about affordability and about feasibility. Think about the power grid, too. Suppose tomorrow everyone would switch to electricity, then the electricity grid couldn't handle that tax. Can we all get along in an equal way? Last week there was another message that the climate agreement might include a 75% load on gas. 75%! And the load on power should just drop. This would encourage the phasing-out of gas use. Minister, as far as 50PLUS is concerned, this is the wrong road. Good-willed citizens are hit left-hand or right-hand in this way. It has been calculated that conversions per household could cost tens of thousands of euros. And not everyone can do this. I already know people who can't set the heat higher than 15 degrees in winter, because they can't pay the gas bill. And the Netherlands really knows by now that for the safety of Groningen the extraction of gas has to be reduced there, but you can't break iron with hands, that's just not possible. This gives great unrest and does not do the support. I'd like a response. And how fast is the phasing-out going at the companies? They're being kindly asked to step off the gas. The Minister says he wants to adopt more restrictive measures at some point, including tax incentives and a legal obligation. When is "any moment"? Then there is the agreement on the main lines of Shell and Exxon with the Empire. The NAM will always pay for damage and reinforcement, retains liability and waives a claim on the gas that stays in the ground. And in return, the proceeds for the NAM go up. The budgetary consequences are reflected in the Millions Note. 50PLUS assumes that the Minister already has an image of this, otherwise he would not have signed the agreement. On the left or right, there are huge amounts of money involved. And why did he make this deal without consulting Parliament? We just received a letter with answers to written questions, but I haven't really had enough time to read the answers, so I'd like to know what's going on. If the Chamber voted against the budgetary consequences, we would be stuck with it, because the agreement is legally binding. So we're basically just being put on the spot. I would also like to know, because questions have been asked about it before, whether it is true that the NAM does not put 500 million into the fund but 135 million. I agree with Mr Van der Lee: say so immediately. Don't pretend that's 500 million. That puts people on the wrong track, and that creates mistrust. Saving is, of course, still an option. Does the Minister still pay attention to this? When I see all the terrace heaters here on the Square, on gas, I really wonder if that is necessary. Those are little things, but all the bits help. If there is something not to cut with a pair of scissors, then it is the earthquake risk, with and without turning off the crane. That's what we heard from the SodM again this week. The cracks are not only in the houses of the Groningers, but also in the Groningers themselves. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it remains of the utmost importance, once again, that whatever happens, the reinforcement operation will be dealt with as quickly and as rapidly as possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u43	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are two things ahead of us today. These are the laws, which I will talk about in such a way, and, as a matter of necessity, the broad lines of the agreement. I have requested a separate debate on this. I also have a lot of questions about this, but a majority has decided to include the debate on an agreement with Shell and Exxon, a billion-dollar deal that was concluded last Monday and has enormous implications for this debate. Those implications are really huge: who pays what, what are the shares in the finances, who is liable? The consequences are enormous. The whole Chamber shouldn't want it, but it's decided by majority. The information position of the Chamber in this matter is one of my main concerns. It's supposed to affect the whole room. It's about huge amounts of money and long-term consequences. According to the Minister, EUR 70 billion of gas remains in the ground. There was a division between the companies and the government. The Chamber has no idea which part is now coming for the government and part for the camp of Shell and Exxon. An agreement is being made that says proudly 'we contribute half a billion dollars for the Groningen people', but less than two days later it turns out to be net, clean, 135 million. Who's being fooled here? Does the Minister really think that he can do that in this way, with this way of presenting, where we as some sort of detectives have to look for what's really going on? I also asked 29 questions today. They were answered a minute before the debate. Mrs Beckerman could not read the answers, because she was already here, and I read them during the introduction of colleagues. "You can't do that with such big deals, can you?', So I say to the cabinet. You can't make such big agreements, can you, Mr Jetten, even point out that you have no prior consent from Parliament? I thought the Chamber had a budget right. Surely you cannot bring gas extraction to zero, which I very much support sending a serious letter to the Chamber on this subject, with an ambitious phasing-out path, for which I congratulate the Minister, and at the same time have the Minister of Finance send a spring note with totally different numbers? Really different numbers! That is completely unacceptable. Really. The minister says we'll be far to the 12 billion by 2021. If you compare the numbers in the spring note with that, it turns out there are hundreds of millions in between, maybe 1 billion. How does the cabinet manage to send it to the Chamber so side by side? Next week I will speak to Minister Hoekstra harshly about this. But you can't do that, can you? Another key question. What does the new cost allocation mean, for example? I think it's really bad. From the profits, from the gas output to 2030, a larger proportion goes to Shell and Exxon. That should never have been agreed. This deal should never have been closed, but the minister did. What does this ratio mean for the cost of strengthening? What about the compensation for damages? And for compensating for the fall in value? Are we going to pay so much more as taxpayers, as with the 500 million? Is that what's behind it? And do I have to find out because of the question I'm asking the Minister? Shouldn't he have just informed us about it properly if he did? The Chamber really needs to ask for this in writing. We're gonna do it, or I'm gonna do it myself. We need to know exactly what's going on here. We should not pretend that such a deal, the deal that was made on Monday, can be dealt with here in the Chamber three days later and then it's done. I can't. Then we do not take our role as parliament seriously. Mr. Chairman. So my assessment of that deal is clear: it should never have been closed like this. The NAM was liable and Shell and Exxon were liable. They have repeatedly declared in the Chamber that they were vouchsafed. The government should have kept those parties to it, but the government should not have made a deal in which they could obtain a larger share of the profits. I never should have. And then buy that off with some kind of grand gesture: half a billion for the Groningen. Distributed over 12 years, up to 2030; it's all spread out. And then it turns out it's 135 million. That's a farce, isn't it? That's not a deal you can be proud of, is it? Mr. Chairman. I'm on the law. I am therefore going to speak about this further. As far as I am concerned, this was not the end of the overall agreement, but you have understood that. Mr. Chairman. I'm on the law. I have five main points. In itself, it is of course a good thing that this Minister has fully decided that gas extraction should go to zero. That is also what the PvdA Group supports. It's gonna take a new law. That is crystal clear, but I do have five concerns/comments. Those are also substantial concerns. First of all, the concept of security. The Council of State also has this as its main criticism. On the one hand, there is safety for the Groningers. Everyone understands that. They're not safe now, and that's why we need to get that gas extraction down. The Minister feels the same way. He even thinks it should go even further down than to the 12 billion previously advised by the State surveillance of the Mines. But then there is a second concept of security, which is the'security resulting from supply uncertainty'. I think that is a very creative approach to the concept of security, because I do not think that is what it is all about at the heart. The core weighting is economic, and that is also legitimate. There aren't many parties in the Chamber that say, "Turn that gas tap off. The whole of the Netherlands comes to a standstill and also a number of foreign countries we export to. There's no gas coming out." It just can't be. But the core weighting is just an economic consideration, not security. It is an economic balance: "We have become very dependent on Groningen gas over the past decades. That's once and you can't stop it all at once." That's right. We acknowledge that, but that has nothing to do with safety. In his answer to further questions, the Minister does quite well. He is trying to say, with the reasoning of "it is still about safety," a bit: "If there is no gas coming out of the tap at households, people can get sick. Then it's too cold. There may be deaths!" In this way, a serious point is answered. This is going to be a crucial point in the assessment and the possibilities of this I shall come to the Minister's decision as to the level of the gas extraction level. On the one hand, I find that very creative, so not exactly, formulated. On the other hand, I also think it is a lot of space not to opt for the safety of Groningen. I would like to make one other point about this balancing framework. I actually think that the damage to the people, and also the enormous suffering of the Groningen people, should have a much greater weight. It's not just about safety. I don't want that gas tap closed just because of security. This is also due to the enormous suffering and misery that Groningers is being caused. That should actually come out much more prominently. I ask the Minister to respond to that. Mr. Chairman. My second point is the great role of the Minister in deciding on the level of gas extraction. The cabinet is clear: the gas extraction to zero. This minister does everything in his own right. At least he has the good intentions. Whether it's gonna happen, we're gonna see, but he's really serious about it. That also fully supports the PvdA. But this is a law, and it may just be that next year there will be another minister. Should we, as a chamber, give that minister so much room that he can decide on his own? I really think that's a question. Of course, politics ultimately decides. In the current situation, you have the advice of State surveillance of the Mines, which is more or less binding, although you can go further. But in this law a lot of freedom is given, especially because "security" is stretched out like that. In fact, this is about the economic effects: bankruptcies are also being added. Do we not give the Minister too much power and make it not too much dependent on the person who is there, even now? Why did they choose to do that? State surveillance of the Mines and the Council of State also point to this. I really think that's a big question. It is not a question of mistrust towards the intentions of this minister, but this law has to last a few years. And then we have to settle it right now, because if it's a law, it's a law. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third point: the points raised by the State surveillance of the Mines. That actually says that it wants to be able to give an opinion on both the safeguards that have now been defined, which I have my doubts about; but well, that is what this law has done. Why was it chosen not to? Why was it chosen not to have State surveillance also provide interim advice, which is also more or less binding or at least leading? Because that's what happened at Zeerrijp. I understand that the law has been written quickly, because the Minister wanted to do this quickly, but that can sometimes be read out. It just says there's got to be a few deaths, so we can do it. I'm sorry to say that, but it is. That's what it says in the explanatory memorandum. I didn't write it down. Don't we have State surveillance on the mines to intervene when there are unsafe situations? It must be able to intervene immediately, even if it is the same month or the same day? That's what it's done now. There was advice within two weeks. Minister Kamp has done that before. Why is it that we are now moving away from or taking more room in relation to that system which is not working so badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u45	Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that even with this amendment, the SodM can simply continue to deliver unsolicited advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u47	Does Mr Nijboer therefore agree with me that we should, above all, ask the Minister how he himself might take interim measures if the SodM delivers such an opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u48	No, I disagree. The Minister now decides on the basis of security. The SodM can now only advise on a piece of that security unsolicited. The Minister may weigh that against that other security, in which the SodM has no role anymore. That was my first criticism. That means that the Minister will have much more room for manoeuvre, if that is true; I ask the Minister to do so than he does now, and I think that is undesirable, because it is now being explicitly deprived of the SodM, when it is asking for it, to give advice on this other security, which the Minister now considers so important, which I do not think is so credible; you have all heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u49	This at least clarifies the position of Mr Nijboer. I think we have the same concern. I am particularly concerned about the fact that the Minister demonstrates very closely how he then comes to the balance of interests. I am sure he will take the advice of State surveillance into account, but we really must make sure that everyone knows how the Minister decides, even in the case of temporary measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u50	My fourth point is that of the agencies which now suddenly have a very important role to play. Honesty requires saying that, for example, the Mining Council is going to give a very important advice on Monday about strengthening houses in Groningen. Until recently, the Mining Council played a very limited role in the gas debates, but has now been given an enormous role in deciding which houses are being strengthened. Groningen is really excited about what's going to happen on Monday. I ask the Minister: what kind of organization is that? How many people work there? Do they even have the expertise? They will be given even more powers with this law. I am not suspicious, but I just want to know in which hands we have put this, because that is where a very great responsibility is laid. And we know from the past few years how difficult it has been for State surveillance of the Mines to try to guarantee security. That is another competence, but State surveillance has been doing so for years and has had a great deal of difficulty in doing so. This really is a new position that the Mining Council is getting. The same applies to GTS. That's actually just a network manager; that's all going through those pipes. I can see how that can be practical, because they know all about it, they have a little insight into where that gas is going. But to give this authority more or less the decision-making power about how much gas is still being extracted in the Netherlands, because she is ultimately the most important advisor for the determination of the minimum gas quantity.............................................................................................................................................. That's supposed to be in public hands, isn't it? It's kind of weird that you put that down with a gas transporter, because he just happens to know what's going on, and you make it say, "Go win 20 billion this year, and next year, another 18 billion?" That's kind of crazy, isn't it? How does the Minister view this? How is this independence guaranteed? What is the technical nature of this? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. I'm almost ready right now, but for this point, I need to check my note. My final point is the point that Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Sazias have already raised: the vacuum between the laws that have all been put in motion. People see that also today in the comments of the Gas Council and the Soil Movement because of that large amount of laws, proposals, answers and advice from the Mining Council and the like through the trees the forest no longer. They are also concerned about what it means if we adopt this law while public compensation and public reinforcement still have to be regulated by law. Don't you have to look at that in conjunction anymore? The PvdA Group therefore strongly supports today's call for both movements not to vote on this law on Tuesday. See that in conjunction. At least know what it's gonna look like. Look, financially, it's all completely unclear. That's what I started my input with. But there is still uncertainty about this too. You have to know, also in public law, what you're entitled to, where you can go and exactly how it's arranged. That is also important for the PvdA Group to vote in favour of such a law. If I'm voting for this law, I'd like to know if it's settled properly. But we don't know that, because we're gonna get that law. We don't have to have dealt with that law all the way to the end, but if we don't have anything at all, it's really hard. That makes it a fact for the PvdA Group, with these points, though, five rather crucial points in a law that we do not necessarily have a negative opinion on beforehand, and that there are still very good answers from the Minister, if we are to be convinced that it must now be introduced so quickly and in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u52	Mr. Chairman. Gas extraction goes to zero, and the law we're discussing now provides the structural basis for this. The present law will not be won more than is necessary for the security of supply, taking into account the temperature and the wind. We are hopeful that we can quickly bring back the gas extraction in the Groningen field. A year ago, the previous minister did not agree to look at the level of extraction annually. And now we have a law laying down that there will be an annual operational strategy. This part of the changes for Groningen goes fast. During this afternoon's work, Mrs Beckerman indicated that she was going a little too fast. At that time, I proposed a third deadline if necessary. Can the Minister take the House of Representatives with him in the hurry he is in with this law? What measures can he not take with regard to the gas year 2018-2019? I ask this because there might still be another basis for intervention by the Minister, with the advice of the State surveillance of the Mines in hand, following the earthquake at Zeerijp. I would like to see the Minister explaining this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u53	That was, of course, a very striking twist of my words. "I'm moving too fast," um, amazing! It was you who voted against a motion by myself after the earthquake in Zeerijp and Mr Wassenberg to speed up gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres, but that aside. I don't think it's going too fast. I think the law is incomplete. That's what the Groninger Soil Movement and the Gas Council think. What do you think of the largest organisations in Groningen now saying that this law is not ripe for vote? Will you listen to those Groningers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u54	Mrs. Beckerman, would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u55	Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u56	I have, of course, also had some contact with Mrs Top on this subject, just to hear from herself how she stands about it. I find it a bit annoying to discuss here what she has to say. Anyway, you're asking for it, Mrs. Beckerman. So I'll give you that honest answer through the chairman. Mrs Top did not mind that we could get more clarity about the law today. Of course, that is what I said in the course of the work. I said: if there are any doubts, we can possibly do a third term. But for me it is essential to know that for the gas year 2018-2019, which starts in October, we can still achieve that decline. I think Mrs Beckerman and I share that we both want this gas extraction back as soon as possible. In my opinion, this law provides the structural basis for this. Perhaps there are other ways of achieving this without rushing this law through the Chamber, and probably also through the First Chamber, even before the summer holidays, so that we can go down that gas year in October. That was something Mrs Top also asked. If that is the case, then I would like to have that clarity. I think we all want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u57	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u58	Of course, we all want a law to be passed as soon as possible, but it must be a good law. And this law is incredibly critical. The Council of State says that security is not paramount. I can mention all the points of criticism, but I do not think that the President is waiting for them. But we can't just pass a bad law that doesn't even capture what's going on with that goal, when we go back to the 12 billion and when we go back to zero? Surely you must agree with me that Groningen deserves a good law? If civil society organisations say they also want clarity and certainty and that the law doesn't offer it, then we can't just pass a law like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u59	I think we're discussing this law here today. The purpose of this is also to improve it when we would all feel that it is not good enough. At the same time, I attach great importance to this and I believe that Mrs Beckerman of the SP also attaches great importance to the fact that we are getting that gas extraction for the new gas year down as quickly as possible. If this law contributes to that, it is simply very important to me. Then we need to see where we can improve him. We're here tonight to exchange all these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u60	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u61	Mr. Chairman. Unlike the previous cabinet, this cabinet is doing everything it can to bring back the extraction of gas from the Groningen field as quickly as possible. That's why we're building a nitrogen plant. The CDA tabled a motion years ago for this. During the same period we also tabled a motion to have the companies switched off the Groningen gas. The cabinet has also started working on this. That is why we are going to support the large customers of Groningengas to choose another energy source, preferably a sustainable natural one. In addition to the task for businesses, there is also a task for households to reduce gas demand. I think all the little bits are helping. As Mr Nijboer said, we are just gas addicted together. As far as the phasing-out is concerned, I ask the Minister what period he hopes to make progress. In the end, are there any need for mandatory and fiscal measures, as the State surveillance of the Mines advocated yesterday? We will be discussing the SodM's overall report next week in the debate on the reinforcement and handling of the outstanding damages. But in that report, the SodM gives two advices to promote the reduction of the use of Groningengas. Can the Minister respond to the advice that, in the long term, the industrial use of Groningengas should be banned and that the legal tasks of GTS should be adapted? Mr. Chairman. With the present legislative proposal, the safety weighting becomes more transparent than before when considering the extraction plan. The safety of the inhabitants of Groningen must be a key issue. The 10 standard shall be weighed. This is also what we agreed on in Parliament, as we adopted a motion on this matter last week. The social disruption caused by the earthquakes in Groningen must also be weighed. However, the Council of State has outlined that dilemma: different interests that need to be weighed: the security of the inhabitants above the Groningen field and the security of all of us as customers. Because society could disrupt in the event of an acute gas shortage, and then we may need to take far-reaching steps. The Labour Party also recognizes this, but it says: you should not weigh it as a security concern. I can still follow that, but the fact that we can't just switch off from today to tomorrow, I think we all understand, as annoying as we all are. 'Cause we'd love it if it had gone back yesterday. Mr. Chairman. According to the SodM, we're a little bit more in a safe zone at 12 billion cubic metres, but in the intervening years, the trade-off really is a diabolical dilemma. To what extent should the Minister possibly shut down parts in the Netherlands? Can he take us into his consideration? So I would like to know today from the Minister how he makes that assessment. Does the overall consideration weigh the safety for Groningers the most for him? And how is he going to make that transparent, visible and follow-up in his approval of the operational programme? Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants to be able to intervene, even if companies are to be closed down if there is an urgent need to do so. I put this concern on the table in a technical briefing with the SodM proposed by the CDA and then in a technical briefing with the officials of the Ministry of EZK proposed by the VVD. Because if there is increasing strong seismicity, we need to be able to intervene quickly. Does the Minister agree with us? In the briefing it emerged that, under Article 127, the Minister could at any time receive unsolicited advice from the SodM and that he could then act on the basis of that opinion. This can be done through Article 50, as was made clear. Can the Minister confirm that Article 50 of the Mining Act provides the opportunity to intervene in the short term if the SodM advises unsolicited? For the sake of clarity, we have not tabled our own amendment on this point, but we wholeheartedly support the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Lee to simply include it in the ministerial regulation, and not as a provision. Then it is perfectly clear and that takes away the concern we also had about the SodM and possibly reducing the instruments they had. That bothered us, I can tell you. I also think that the SodM should be able to give advice at any time, and I also appreciate the way they did it yesterday. That also contributes to our trust, because we know that there really is an independent supervisor, who doesn't speak up and just says what he thinks. Then it is up to us to consider it with each other and initially with the Minister. But they have independent advice, and we must cherish it. I agree with the Minister and the Council of State on the liability of NAM, because the damage that is now there comes from decades of gas extraction. Even now that there is a compulsory extraction, it is quite natural in our view that the person who has won gas for so long should remain liable. Therefore, in line with the new agreement with the shareholders of NAM, it is stipulated that NAM will reimburse all costs for damages and reinforcement and that the shareholders will guarantee the NAM. That seems to us to be the right starting point, because we want to prevent the Groningen from happening the same way as the Limburgers, namely that after many years of damage occurs, the successors of the law find that they are no longer liable and that the government can still set up a compensation fund. I would like to comment on this point. I agree with the questions on this point about the economic crime of, among other things, the SP and D66. Mr. Chairman. A question about the general duty of care, article 52g, for the enforcers of the Mining Act, article 33 Mining Act. Why does it expire for the performers of the Groningen field? Then who's gonna be responsible for getting killed and wounded? Let's hope that never happens! Mr. Chairman. The note on the report states that less can be won in the current gas year and the next gas year than 21.6 billion cubic metres. At the beginning of this year, the advice of State surveillance was to bring the extraction back as quickly as possible. Then why does the Minister not already reduce the maximum amount of extraction for this gas year on the basis of Article 36 (3) of the Mining Act? Will the supplement to the extraction plan that NAM is now preparing for the gas year 2018-2019 be in line with the legislative proposal that is now before us? The extraction plan and the measurement and control protocol shall be subject to requirements. The explanatory memorandum states that some similar requirements will be made in the operational programme. Is the Minister coming up with this ministerial arrangement of Article 52g, paragraph 5, in the short term? And is the Minister prepared to put these forward as well? Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a question about the public damages settlement. For this, the bill will be consulted shortly. I wonder whether it is also possible to regulate the national independent treatment of mining damage in this bill, in addition to the public handling of mining damage over the Groningenveld and the gas storage of Norg. The region had the hope and expectation that the internet consultation would be already last Monday, so that this law could have been passed alongside the law before it today. That is also one of the reasons that Mr Van der Lee mentioned in his speech: isn't it all going a little too fast and can we really weigh it up? I understand that concern and I therefore deliberately ask this question today. The reason is that people start to wonder: if we introduce this law now, what will we get in return in the region? Or are we going too fast to fix it later? Can the Minister address these concerns? Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister prepared to clarify the flow of information? In the technical briefing with State surveillance on the Mines it emerged that the NAM is obliged to share information with the Ministry. Until the law has been amended, State supervision of the Mines also receives this information directly. Is the Minister prepared to share the information he receives from NAM immediately with the SodM or simply to amend the law on this point? The CDA strongly believes that the independent position of the supervisor is maintained. They should be able to do their job on the basis of the latest information. I see an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u62	I see him, too. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u63	I understand Mrs Mulder's question very well, also in connection with last week's technical briefing. Does Mrs Mulder want the information via the Minister to go to the SodM or that NAM and SodM get a direct line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u64	I prefer to have a direct line, but I care that they have access to it, because how can you monitor if you don't have that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u66	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a word about the SodM's comment on the realisation of gas extraction and the role of GTS and Gasterra as soon as possible. GTS, I say to Mr Nijboer, is just a state participation, even 100%, I think. So that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u67	I see another interruption; Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u68	Holland Casino is also a state participation. I don't think that's such a good argument. The State lottery is also a state stake. I do not think that is such a strong argument for such an important decision, for advice on how much billion is to be won, simply to lay it down. We have had a lot of debates in the Chamber on exactly how to do that. The term "numbersbingo" has often been dropped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u69	I wasn't finished with my cube. I think that when I have completed that, Mr Nijboer has an answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u70	Then I suggest you proceed first. Then Mr Nijboer can always ask a second question. I suggest you finish this section first. 'Cause I thought you were answering this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u71	Yeah, that comes out all over this block, but he reacted so quickly to my remark... Can the Minister confirm that this concerns the rapid reduction of gas extraction and the role of GTS and Gasterra in it that they are also committed to reducing gas extraction as soon as possible? Is the Minister prepared to adapt this in the explanatory statement to the law or today in this debate? This question also arises from the fact that I have been hearing for years that the extraction of gas in the context of security of supply really cannot go down any further. And yet every time it turned out that it wasn't really a problem when a judge came into play. That makes us a little suspicious on that point. Can the Minister make it clear tonight how he sees it and how he acts in a visible and follow-up manner? How do they, GTS, answer to the Minister and thus to us? Well, I guess I'll move on then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u72	Mr. Nijboer, would you... Mrs. Mulder is under the assumption that she has answered. I would now like to give you an opportunity to make your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u73	It's a follow-up question, Mr. Chairman. The self-evident argument that something is a state participation is not enough to deliver the opinion, is it? That was my core point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u74	No, but of course it is something that we have an influence on, especially from the Finance Committee in which Mr Nijboer himself is involved. There's always an AO State participation and I imagine you can sit on top of it. But let's do this nicely through our minister here, that he provides guidance. I have put down my concerns about this and I feel that those concerns are shared by Mr Nijboer. So let's find each other in there. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the gas deal. We thought it appropriate to include that deal in this debate today, because this legal treatment is also the reason for the gas deal. The cabinet chooses to return to zero as soon as possible because of security. NAM, Shell and Exxon are obliged to cooperate. We would like to hear an explanation of the gas deal in this debate and we would also appreciate it if Mr Nijboer's questions were answered, because, of course, we would like to know what the financial situation is. I just got it too, I didn't get to read it extensively, because you're also watching what the colleagues are saying. I would be very pleased if the Minister could also point out to Mr Nijboer a number of points in his view, and if Mr Nijboer had the opportunity of interrupting from the President. That letter was so very late that this makes it very difficult. Mr Jetten, Mr D66, would like to hear the Minister's response to the surcharges, partly because of the problems previously raised by other groups in questions. The CDA wants that reaction, too, so I agree. I thought it was a good suggestion by colleague Van der Lee van GroenLinks to get the total costs in an overall overview. I think that's what we all need. Mr President, I have come to the end of my speech, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u75	There's another interruption from Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u76	I have another question in relation to the agreement and the law. I was wondering if it was clear to Mrs Mulder why the things in the law and the agreement are there with regard to the storage of Norg. Do you understand this relationship? One of the answers to Mr Nijboer's questions says that there is a direct connection between the Groningernveld and the Norg gas storage, which allows the Norg gas storage to be understood as part of the gas extraction from the Groningenveld. Can Mrs Mulder explain the implications of this, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u77	I'll ask her. Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u78	I'll wait for the Minister's answer. We've talked about the gas storage in Norg before in the Chamber. TNO also mentioned this during a round table discussion. There's a different way to fill this out. You shouldn't fill that out with Groninger gas, but with high-caloric gas. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to answer that question. If there's any uncertainty about it, maybe we can hang out together. I have always argued in the debates here that it should be seen as a whole because it was communicating vessels. People also suffer from damage, and this must also be resolved. They ran into that big wall again, which the rest of the Netherlands also ran into. We really want to remedy that. In any case, it has already been established that they are covered by the Groningen Damage Protocol. Here too, they will have to be given a clear place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u79	Thank you, I am also waiting with great interest for the Minister's answers. I have one more question. I'm worried that a smart entrepreneur or gaswinner might think that he could sell part of Slochteren's gas through Norg. Then all he has to do is pay Vpb. Or is this a very bad thought of me? Is that covered enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u80	I think it would be very wise for you to ask that question here. A healthy suspicion can't always hurt, we say in Drenthe. Just asking this question about Drenthe suits me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u81	Then I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u82	Mr. Chairman. Today we arrange for gas extraction to be phased out as quickly as possible, that we will never gain more gas than is necessary. This bill obliges the holder of the Groningenveld extraction licence, the NAM, to a certain level of extraction from the Groningenveld. We're doing this because we're putting the safety of Groningen at the centre. With this law, extraction can be adapted to declining demand. In doing so, the law gives clarity to Groningen and its inhabitants. That is, of course, the clarity and clarity they are asking for for so long. As far as I am concerned, this is an important day. Today we mark the fact that we are legally regulating that there will never be any more winning from the Groningen field than necessary. We highlight the fact that we will send demand and supply; something that has not been done so far. We mark the fact that we'll eventually go to zero, that the NAM will go anywhere, but will continue to pay for the damage and the reinforcement. And we mark the fact that there's a deal going on with Exxon and Shell. So as far as we are concerned, this decision is also a turning point. First of all, the never-more-needed principle. So far, the licence holder, the NAM, has been allowed to gain more gas than is necessary for the security of supply, but that is changing now. This law provides that the grid operator of the national gas transport network GTS shall submit an annual plan to the Minister containing an estimate of the amount of low-caloric gas required. The NAM has no role in determining the amount of gas that can be extracted. The NAM is required to extract annually only the amount of gas from the Groningenveld which is necessary in addition to other sources for the security of supply, the so-called "never-more-than-needed principle'. We will first use all the alternatives before solving any energy shortage with the extraction of gas from Groningen. Minimising gas extraction will eventually lead to the complete cessation of gas extraction in Groningen. This weekend the report from the Mining Council will show what it means for the security situation in Groningen. We hope, I think, that everyone here will see that it will become increasingly safer in Groningen, because that is what we are doing. With this decision, we will at least tackle the cause of the earthquakes once and for all. That's why we're going to zero and that's why we're changing the law. So it's clear that the VVD is for this law. Mr. Chairman. However, the legal text raises a number of questions. I would like to highlight one important point. After all, it is extremely important that the law is very clear. Not only for good compliance, but also because Groningers need to know where they stand. My question concerns the incorporation of two opinions into this law. More questions have been asked about this. The first advice is that of the SodM. The SodM advised earlier this year on the earthquake in Zeerijp that extraction should reach 12 billion as soon as possible. Following the law we are now discussing, the Council of State recommended giving priority to security for residents over the social importance of security of supply. The bill balances three interests, namely the security of Groningers, security of supply and its consequences for our security and social interest. There are questions from society about what this consideration means in practice. As far as the VVD is concerned, we use this law to carry out both the advice of the SodM and that of the Council of State. After all, we're going to zero as fast as we can. I have to say 12 billion, because that was the advice of the SodM, but we're doing it to zero. That is the correct wording. By not considering the question as a given and actively directing the question, we give substance to the advice to put security at the heart of the matter. This means that both the security interests in Groningen and the security interests that apply to the whole country will be taken into account. Yet there are questions about this from society. What does this trade-off mean and how is it reflected in the fact that the safety of Groningers is central? I think it is extremely important that there is real clarity about this. I wouldn't want Groningers to have to ask this question after today. I want them to hear very clearly here that we are indeed going to regulate in the law that their security will be secured, but I also want the rest of the Netherlands to know that they will never be in a situation where first aid is not accessible because the energy supply has gone out. Because that's what we're getting questions about. I would like a response from the Minister on the point where this is clearly stated. Then of course the deal that was presented this week with Exxon and Shell. Let me summarize the deal. At all points, the State draws the direction towards the extraction of gas from the Groningenveld. At the same time, Shell, Exxon and the NAM take responsibility. The NAM will always pay for all damage and for building reinforcements. To this end, Shell and Exxon offer guarantees. So the NAM will pay, but has no room at the table at the damage or reinforcements. There is a billion going to Groningen for the future and Shell and Exxon renounce any claims on gas reserves in the Groningen field that will not be won. There will therefore be no claims for the approximately EUR 70 billion that remains in the ground. Mr. Chairman. It is now important for Groningen to take advantage of this as soon as possible. A lot of sensible questions have been asked about the amounts, and I would like to endorse them. When it comes to the 500 million questions that have been asked, I hope the Minister can clarify what that looks like. How's the NAM going towards Groningen? But I would also like to know how that billion will be deployed, because in the end a billion will go to Groningen for the future. Any plans yet? Is the region involved in this? I would like to make a few comments on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u83	I understand, of course, that Mrs Yeşilgöz has a lot of questions. I think the whole room has one. Of that billion for perspective for Groningen it was said cheerfully that the NAM pays half, but of that whole billion the State ultimately pays 90%. Can you say whether you consider it desirable or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u84	I would like to await the Minister's explanation of what this distribution is like. But to be honest, today is about how Groningen is going to take advantage of this. However, I note that one billion goes to Groningen, in addition to damage, as well as reinforcement, for their future prospects. I would very much like to hear from the Minister what that looks like. And... well, I'll do that in a moment with my supplementary questions, because you're looking very strict, Mr. Chairman, so I'll hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u85	Sorry! No, I'm not being strict. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u86	I understand very well that Mrs Yeşilgöz has a lot of questions about this, but the crazy thing is, of course, that the deal is already closed. You're a Member of Parliament, just like I am. We are the controlling power, but we also have the budget right. The deal's already here. You have questions now. Don't you think we should be able to go back with that deal? Or do you say: well, it's fine, forget it; I'll ask some questions afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u87	Let's be clear: I think the overalls are a very good deal. I love that Shell and Exxon won't make a claim on the 70 billion that stays in the ground. I think it is excellent that NAM should go anywhere but until the future, even if we have stopped the gas extraction, the damage and the reinforcement will pay. I think it's wonderful that a billion dollars goes into the future perspective of Groningen. So, yeah, let's face it, this is just a good deal. There are justified questions about a number of things, but this only makes Groningen better. And the Groningers, of course, that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u88	Yes, that's how we know the VVD: the good deals with Shell and Exxon and are proud of them. I am seriously asking: if the 500 million are not 500 million of these companies, but 365 million of the taxpayer, surely something that the VVD always stands for, shouldn't it have to be different? Shouldn't at least the 500 million come from these companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u89	We await the Minister's explanation. I note that 500 million of taxpayers are already heading towards the region of Groningen. I don't hear any questions about that from the PvdA. I think it is very good that we are investing in the future perspective of Groningen with a billion dollars. In my view, it is important that we regulate this as best we can and also ensure that this money is mainly directed at our Groningen people, so that we make very concrete agreements about it and that they benefit from it. The PvdA may not be in favour of this deal, but this deal deals that there will be no more claims for the 70 billion, that the NAM will continue to pay for all the damage and reinforcement, even if we have stopped the gas extraction, that they are no longer at the table. I think that's pretty well arranged, and I'm happy about that, because I really think Groningen's gonna get better. I think that's why we're standing here, to make things better there. Well, that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u90	Still, I'm a little freaked out about this. That deal was sent to the Chamber on Monday. For example, the cost-benefit ratio is 64% to 73%. The State therefore contributes more, including in those costs. The NAM now says she's responsible for the reinforcement and that she's responsible, but she was already responsible. What does that mean for taxpayers? Do you have any grip or vision on that? 'Cause I don't. The Minister hasn't made it clear to us either. I think that is a big parliamentary question. It could be hundreds of millions. What does that even mean? The decline in the value of the homes is estimated at a billion. The government must now make a greater contribution to this through these agreements. What does that mean? Don't you have to know that before you can make the judgment that this is such a great deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u91	The gas extraction is reversed and that means that it is logical that the yields also go down. That means that it is also quite logical that you should look again at the relationship and the agreements you had made about it. But if Mr Nijboer has been paying attention, he also knows that in every Groningen debate, here and in AO's, I have asked for a total picture of what bringing us to zero is going to cost us. The deal is part of it, the nitrogen factory is part of it and the dismantling of exports is part of it; there are a lot of parts. Mr Van der Lee was right about that: there are so many aspects involved, what does the overall picture look like? But if we're going to wait for the total picture of what it means when we've finished exports and made all those investments to be able to switch to other types of gas or renewable energy, we can't turn gas extraction down for the time being. So doing that step-by-step and getting clarification at every step is okay, that's what this step looks like and these are the consequences of it and getting the picture filled out with Prince's Day, I think is the way to do this. Otherwise, you'll have to wait a long time, and I wouldn't be able to explain that to the Groningers. I wonder if Mr Nijboer can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u92	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u93	I can do that! I cannot explain that the Groningen people should be happy with half a billion plus 350 million, 365 million even, from the taxpayer's pocket, whose question is whether it is really enough. There's no plan underneath, no agreement has been made yet. You have rightly asked questions about this, but it is done now. This is what it is, that's all it is. I'm unhappy about that, and I can explain that very well. I think a lot of Groningers will understand that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u94	You want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u95	In the previous debate, two weeks ago, the Minister explained in detail here that there are still many more resources available for Groningen, especially for the future, for perspective. We all have this in addition to the reinforcement and repair of damage. That's just paid for by NAM. So there are those resources. We have asked several times for plans from the region. I want those resources to reach the Groningen people as soon as possible. Let us focus on this, rather than slowing things down. I can't explain that in Groningen. I know that Groningers just want to know clearly: the gas extraction stops, my damage is compensated, I get to hear about the reinforcements and I can move on with my life. That's what we're trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u96	In his speech, Mr Nijboer had already spoken in detail about the provision of information to the Chamber and that it was lacking; quite rightly, all of them. Now the Minister writes "We are talking about Mrs Yeșilgöz's VVD Minister in his letter: "This has resulted in a contribution from NAM of 500 million euros." That is a very concrete sentence, quite clearly, not to get a pin in between. Now it turns out that this is simply not true, because the NAM contributes only 135 million on balance. What does Mrs Yeșilgöz think of this deception by her own VVD minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u97	That 500 million comes from the NAM. The NAM pays 500 million, let there be no misunderstanding. In my view, the question here is what exactly is the distribution and when it is paid: before or after the profit payment? The Minister can explain this, but let there be no misunderstanding: the 500 million is paid by the NAM. 500 million is paid by the government, so eventually a billion goes to Groningen. I am surprised that I have not heard a single question from the parties that are making a big point of this about what we are going to do with that billion and how we are going to ensure that it reaches the Groningers as soon as possible. How do we make sure they know what they're up to? I think that's what it's about. The sooner we have clarity about this, the sooner the people in the north can move on with it. That is my preference, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u98	You have another interruption. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u99	Before we're happy with that billion, I'd like to see where it's coming from. It's just been said, 500 million from NAM. In the end, it doesn't turn out to be 500 million, but only 135 million, because the rest is taxpayers' money. They can get that money back. Three quarters don't have to pay NAM himself. So we're talking 135 million over a period of 12 years. That's a lousy 11 million a year. Last year, NAM made half a billion, 500 million profits. So that actually means that 2% of the profits per year are deposited in that pot. Does the VVD find that very generous?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u100	I am concerned that the NAM takes responsibility and compensates for all damage and reinforcement, even after we have stopped the gas extraction. That's crucial. We are talking about additional resources for the construction of Groningen, for which, in addition to this 500 million from the NAM and 500 million from the government, other pots have been released. We all heard that two weeks ago. We have also heard the Minister say: region, pay attention, I have money here; we can just invest in Groningen, let's invest in the future and perspective. So there is. Let's see what plans are in place and make sure it gets to the Groningers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u101	Let's talk about the numbers. It is not 500 million from the NAM and 500 million from the government; it is 865 million from the government and only 135 million from the NAM and then spread over that period. It is therefore 2% of the annual profit of the NAM. My question to the VVD, to which I have not yet received an answer, is: does the VVD find that so terribly generous, that 2% annual profit from the NAM?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u102	Then I'm going to fall into repetition, because I think it's just going to be 500 million from the NAM. The Minister will explain exactly what this is all about in a moment. There's money going from the state. In addition, there are all kinds of other jars, for example at BZK. We have heard a great deal about this. It's all focused on the Groningen people so they can move on with their lives there, so they can make their homes more sustainable and invest in their environment. It's about perspective for the whole region. I think it would be so nice if we could see how the money gets there as quickly as possible instead of wishing for that delay. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u103	Mr. Kops, the second part of your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u104	It's a figure trick. The NAM pays 135 million on balance. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's The minister's letter is all about it. Mrs Yesilgöz is kind of going around here. Can Mrs Yesilgöz then understand that Groningers who are listening to this debate have absolutely no confidence in it anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u105	The Groningers I have spoken to over the last few days have all approached me to say: how do we deal with that amount of 1 billion; how do we ensure that it gets to Groningen as soon as possible? That's what they said to me. I believe that the Groningen people who are listening to this now also hope that we will take the decisions correctly here, that we will be able to ensure that they can continue there and that we will be able to reduce gas extraction in a responsible manner. I think that's our job. I hope we're gonna finish it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u106	Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u107	Just a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u108	Just a little bit more. Now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had stuck to the cost of the overall picture. I just got interrupted on that, too. We've asked for that before. Now that we are one step further, I would like to ask the Minister again if it is any clearer when we can get that overall picture. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm going to close up, because I've already been able to share a lot of my views in the interruptions. The safety of our Groningers and the maintenance of security of supply for the whole of the Netherlands are the preconditions for the VVD. This decision is a major step forward. That's what the VVD's happy about. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u110	Thank you, but you still have an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u111	Let's talk about the total cost we're getting. We all want that very much, but I suppose the Minister already has that insight. After all, you need that insight to make a deal with the NAM and the parties in it, in order to be able to judge whether you are making a fair deal. For that, you need to have all the costs in mind and see who takes which part. Is the VVD confident that the Minister has been able to negotiate on the basis of the overall overview?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u112	The overall picture of the reduction of gas extraction has a lot of elements. Mr Van der Lee knows that, too. It also has to do with questions like "how do we switch to other forms of energy?', "How fast can we reduce exports?" And "what should we import; what does that look like?'. It is now very scary focused on one part. It would not be reasonable to pretend that the deal with Shell and Exxon offers the complete picture of the phasing out of the gas extraction, because that is not the case of course. A lot of those parts still have to take place. The Minister has taken us into that too. They have yet to take place. For example, we depend on the speed with which other countries want to reduce their imports of our gas. Fortunately they do so very quickly, but only when you're closer, do you know what that picture is going to look like. That'll get you closer one step at a time. We are, of course, talking about a huge task: to bring the gas extraction in Groningen to zero. So it would be a bit simplistic to pretend that we can have the overview here with one state. Unfortunately, it isn't. If we had, we would have. I have every confidence in that anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u113	I was triggered because Mrs Yesilgöz mentioned earlier in her speech that this agreement is actually a necessary condition for being able to agree to the law that we are discussing tonight. I don't quite see that direct causal relationship. Then it is a question of what the best timing is for that agreement to be concluded. We all think this should be done; that back door needs to be properly arranged. But I am not entirely sure that it has happened at the right time, at a time when we have sufficient insight into all the costs, and whether the Minister has made the best possible deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u114	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u115	Does Mrs Yeşilgöz understand my concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u116	I understand, of course, Mr Van der Lee's concerns. I thought he was asking some very sensible questions, too. I would like to await the Minister's reply. If I may add one thing very briefly: today we have the law before us to ensure that we never gain more gas than we need. But that obviously means a lot for the task of NAM, for example. It's quite logical that you discuss these two issues in a mutually exclusive manner. What do you put in the law and what do you meet with Shell and Exxon in relation to the NAM? I think we've all seen that relationship here. We've asked questions about that, too. I think I'll leave it at that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u117	Very good. Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2015 and last year, the Security Research Council noted that the security and position of citizens were subordinate to the economic interests of gas extraction in the province of Groningen. In the recent past, we have often seen that the extraction ceiling became a point of reference, even if there was a relatively warm winter. Each year more was won than was necessary for the security of supply, with all the risks involved. The record year of 2013 is a low point in this respect. This cabinet is going to bring gas extraction to zero, a historic decision. This is also the first cabinet to state that the Groningen gas supply is not being depleted. It is good that the Minister is making haste to minimize gas extraction. It is a good thing that this bill sets out a clear framework for the extraction from the Groningen field. No more gas is extracted than is strictly necessary. The level of gas extraction will be as low as possible. For the Christian Union, the main thing is that everyone in Groningen deserves a safe home. Next week, we'll talk to the Minister about the reinforcements. It is good to talk today about the legal framework to bring gas extraction to zero as soon as possible and to ensure the safety of people in Groningen. Mr. Chairman. The concept of safety is included in the law. This concept consists of two components: the safety of the Groningers because of the seismic risk and the security of supply of the customers. The Council of State rightly points out that these two components are entirely different in nature. In addition to the two components of "safety," there is still the social interest, which is not further defined in the law. The bill is intended to bring back risks for the Groningen as much and as quickly as possible. Can the Minister explain how he ensures that the security interests of the Groningen people are put first? Mr. Chairman. At the technical briefing came the call of State surveillance on the Mines to continue working with the measurement and control protocol adopted last year to reduce seismic risks. The measurement and control protocol is not in the law, but I assume this is the Minister's intention. Can he confirm that? Furthermore, State surveillance has recommended not only to work with this model of the NAM, but with several models. For example, models are now being rebuilt by TNO to validate the model of the NAM. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Recently, the Chamber adopted my motion to fully adhere to the Meijdam norm of 10 at the reinforcement notice in the province of Groningen. The law states in the weighting framework in Article 52d the phrase "to what extent the safety standard of 10 is met'. In the written replies, the Minister states that "to what extent" concerns the question of how many houses in the area meet the required standard and the development of the number of houses that meet the standard. However, I would like to see safety standards as an absolute standard ensuring that safety standards are met. Can the Minister comment on this? How is it ensured that safety standards are fully respected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u119	I thought Mrs Dik-Faber's speech was very good. The reports of the Safety Research Council were very hard and very important, but many of these recommendations have still not been properly followed. One of their recommendations was to improve monitoring. Do you not agree with me that supervision can be much better in this law, on several aspects? That's what the SodM says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u120	I remember talking about that at the technical briefing. The question was raised as to whether State supervision is sufficiently capable of carrying out supervision. If I remember correctly, it was also said by the State surveillance that it is certainly capable of doing so. At the same time, proposals have also been made to see how things can be improved. I think Mrs Mulder has just mentioned this in her speech to ensure that information is well available for State surveillance. I think that's important, too. Let us also wait for the Minister's response to those answers. In general, I would like to say that, of course, I also think it is very important that State supervision is properly enabled to carry out this task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u121	Satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u122	Not quite, because it's a bit of a half-half answer. It dealt with one aspect, while the SodM criticized five aspects, especially the aspect of intermediate intervention being very important. If we hadn't been able to intervene immediately after Zeerrijp, then what? Do you still support all the recommendations contained in the OVV report? I think that's important, and you think it's important, because you started it. Do you still support all the recommendations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u123	Yes, I support all the recommendations of the Security Research Council. I believe that a number of these recommendations, if not all, have been taken up. Anyway, I'm gonna have to take a closer look and detail, which is what it says. I believe that the Security Research Council has made good recommendations and that no party in this Chamber has said: thank you for the advice and we are putting it on the line. I don't think anyone wants to, so we all went along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u124	Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u125	Thanks to Mrs Faber. It's a good thing you said you wanted to take another look at it. I would like to do that together, because there are really a number of recommendations that have not been implemented. Thank you for the commitment to take another look at that and at least propose it. One of the things that has not been done is to invest different roles in different ministries, but also to make supervision more independent. At nuclear, it's invested in several ministries, you know that. I'd like to take another look at it. Thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u126	I would like to respond to this very briefly. I think the position of State surveillance has changed, even under the previous cabinet. It is located at a greater distance from EZK. Last week, I think it was said by the State surveillance that it does not now have a position vis-à-vis EZK, which makes its work difficult. That was last week or this week, the days are going so quickly, were still discussed in the technical briefing. I would like to correct this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u127	I'm gonna take over the relay stick and ask around about the Research Council. Mrs Dik says that she knows all the recommendations have been taken over, but the OVV has also said: siege those different interests, which are often contradictory, in other ministries. When you see this discussion about safety, it seems to be one interest, but there are different definitions in that one concept. In fact, that one concept contains several other concepts. Does Mrs Dik agree with me that it would also be nice if another ministry had the real safety of the Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u128	I would like this question to be answered; another ministry for the safety of the people in Groningen. I see that there is now a bill, which we are discussing tonight, aimed at minimising gas extraction for the safety of people in Groningen. Mr Wassenberg asks me the question, but at the same time I think that this is good what we do with each other. There's no question about that now, is there? The bill comes explicitly from the Ministry of EZK. Yes, but the direction in which it is expressed is: we are going to decrease. In fact, the Ministry of EZK has said: because of the safety of the people in Groningen we go to zero and we leave the rest of gas in the bottom. Is the point that Mr Wassenberg is making now not a very theoretical point that is no longer paying off?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u129	No, on the contrary. Because this is precisely how much ambiguity there is. Mrs. Dik says it's about the safety of the Groningers. No! That does play a role, but it's about security. And that safety consists of safety for the Groningen people, but also of the safety of gas customers, so that they do not run out. And these are conflicting interests that are placed under one heading of security. And that is also what the Security Research Council warned against: they are conflicting interests; now bring them to other ministries. That the Ministry of EZK is about finance and security of supply, I understand, but bring the security for the Groningers to another ministry: I am not saying that, as the Research Council for Security said. And in fact, the Council of State says the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u130	Okay. Thank you. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u131	Of course, I have read the report of the Council of State, but I have also read the reaction of the cabinet to it. In my view, Article 52d of the Treaty has been explicitly amended in my mind, because the cabinet simply sees that there are different forms of security. I think that's right. I have just argued that. I also asked the Minister to explain it again. Let me repeat: can the Minister explain in what way he ensures that the security interests of the Groningen people are put first? It is precisely because there are different security interests that I think it is important for the Minister to explain this again tonight. And I think he's capable of that. We'll find out in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u132	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u133	Yes. I come to the operational strategy. The Minister will adopt an operational strategy for the extraction of gas in the near future. This brings the initiative to the Minister and is no longer with the NAM. The law includes weighting factors to achieve a certain level of extraction. Article 52d, as I say to Mr Wassenberg. At the same time, the Minister announced his intention to bring gas extraction to zero. How does he intend to use this bill to achieve a phasing-out including timeline? For example, much depends on the reduction of demand for Groningen gas, for example in industry. Can he explain how he will weigh up the various weighting factors in the law? How are the Chamber and the region involved in this weighting? Is this sufficiently insightful? My name is under Mr Jetten's amendment from the D66 Group, which seeks to clarify and clarify the important importance for the people of Groningen and the way in which the Minister weighs it. At the same time, I think it is good that we see how the Minister involves the various weighting factors in his consideration. Mr. Chairman. Preventing damage. The current Mining Act includes a duty of care for companies. They must apply the precautionary principle and, for example, they must avoid adverse effects on people and the environment. In this bill, this is replaced in Article 52g by an adapted duty of care for the NAM because a mining obligation is introduced. According to the bill, the Minister is obliged to take all measures that can reasonably be required of him to prevent the safety of gas extraction. The new duty of care for NAM has been adapted to the new situation, but how does the Minister ensure that the duty of care is not weakened and that the precautionary principle for man and the environment is maintained? How does the Minister ensure that the NAM ensures not only through the extraction level but also in its implementation that the risks are as minimal as possible? And why does the NAM's duty to prevent damage caused by soil movement lapse? This would not undermine a duty of care of the State, but would complement it. I'd like an explanation. Then I come to the liability of the NAM. Last Monday it was announced that an agreement was reached with the gas companies. I think that's a handsome achievement from this minister. The NAM is and will remain financially responsible for repairing damage, even after stopping gas extraction, and for strengthening buildings. How is it ensured that this responsibility is maintained in this legislative proposal? This is particularly true at a time when, in accordance with Article 52f, the Minister is drawing up the competence for the operational strategy through an obligation to extract. There are noises that the agreements apply until 2030, as I read in various media. I don't think that's right. Can the Minister confirm that? Mr. Chairman. The Minister is also working on a legislative proposal in which the settlement of damages is organised by public law. In doing so, the government assumes responsibility for the handling of damage. My question is: does this not have any effect on the liability of the NAM? Does that liability remain in the same form? Furthermore, there will be no claims from Shell and ExxonMobil for the gas that stays in the ground. I do not think that is more than right. There will also be a substantial investment of at least EUR 1 billion in the economy and its viability. Let us make Groningen the frontrunner in the energy transition, thus boosting the economy and employment. Mr President, I will conclude. Finally, I would like to refer to a round table on mental reinforcement organised by my group together with D66. That round table really hit me. The Kinderombudsman, Mrs Kalverboer, called for the structural involvement of children, the generation that is now growing up with all the consequences of the earthquakes, in solving problems. I also think that a motion by Mr Nijboer, who is now standing at the interrupting microphone, has been adopted. I'll finish my input first. Mr Postmes of the University of Groningen said: 'Safety policy and health policy must be combined'. Mrs Gelderloos of the platform Church and Earthquake indicated: "People are in an absurd situation and need to make sense of it." She drew the comparison with the fireworks disaster in Enschede, where a pastorate was available in the neighborhood for five years. But how different is it in Groningen? Fortunately, in the coalition agreement, we have already been able to make agreements on mental care for people in Groningen. There is a project plan, there is a team ready to start and there is an organisation that wants to take care of the employership. But where's the money? I understand that the talks about the Regional Fund are still ongoing, but mental care is now needed. I have a motion in preparation for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u134	Thank you. Then there is an interruption by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u135	That the VVD was cheering on the deal, we know that by now, but Mrs Dik-Faber is a member of the party of the "melon suckers." So I was a little surprised that she has so many words of praise for this deal. After all, it is a deal whereby these companies contribute only 135 million, whereby the State will pay a greater share of the reinforcement and the State will receive a smaller share of the profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u136	I see a number of appointments have been made that are just good for the people in Groningen. There's 450 billion cube gas left in the ground. This has been converted to EUR 70 billion. There's no claim for that. There could have been, but there won't be a claim. I see that the NAM always, at all times, remains financially responsible for reinforcement and damages. I also asked a question about this. Seems like a great meeting for the people in Groningen. And I see a billion dollars invested. That also seems to me to be a good investment to give people a future perspective, so I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u137	Those first two things are of course of no use to those Groningers. Now I say "them Groningers"! I'll take it from here. Groningers, including myself, are of course of no use. That claim wasn't addressed to the Groningen people anyway. The Minister had already assumed responsibility: that would be settled by the State. And do you really think that that billion, spread over twelve years, of which only 135 million comes from these companies, is enough for that renewable energy that you are going to love and that is going to cost you handfuls of money and for the perspective for the villages now that the reinforcement is no longer going on? Would that really be enough? Would the Groningen really like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u138	I would appreciate it if Mr Nijboer did not make any comments on the reinforcements until the reports were available. There is no report yet from the Mines Council; let alone that we can now draw a conclusion to that in this debate. I don't think it's helpful if it does. To answer his question, the following. I think we're going to invest at least 1 billion in Groningen, where 500 million comes from the government and 500 million from the NAM. This indeed leads to a lower profit. I think the Minister's gonna explain all that in a minute. Indeed, some of that lower profit would go to the State and not anymore. We're probably gonna hear it all from the minister in a minute. I see over 1 billion for investment in Groningen and I see that the previous cabinet never got this far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u140	Mr President, the latter is unusually incorrect. There was a Meijer Commission then and there's over a billion in less time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u141	We're not all gonna do that now. Thank you, Mrs Dik-Faber, and I am the last to give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u142	It's the Party before the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u143	I even improved it in myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Gas Act and the Mining Act to minimize gas extraction from the Groningen Field, but I will start my contribution earlier, on 18 February 2015. The Security Research Council then published its report on the earthquake risks in Groningen. That's been remembered a few times today. The heading "recommendations' starts as follows: the Research Council points out the need for parties involved in gas extraction to restore a broken relationship with the population of Groningen. Since then three years and three months have passed. Has that broken relationship been restored? Don't make me laugh! Last Thursday, the Committee for EZK held a hearing with scientists, civil society organisations and aid workers on the damage caused by gas extraction to people. The confidence in the government, the NAM and the Centre for Safe Living is lower than ever and the uncertainty is greater than ever. I have fooled the reader of the hearing: I counted 16 times the word "uncertainty." This uncertainty feeds the mistrust, even cynicism, towards the government. That violated relationship with the people of Groningen has therefore not been restored at all; on the contrary, it has deteriorated. That was never supposed to happen, was it? Mr. Chairman. I have no doubt of the integrity of this minister. I know he cares about the problem, but I wonder if this bill is best for Groningen. For example, I have serious doubts about the manner in which the Minister takes into account the security of the Groningen people. The Council of State also raises these questions and writes that the Minister does not give the security of the Groningen people the priority he should give them. "I put safety first," said the Minister, but he understood the concept of security very broadly. Indeed, the safety of the Groningers is being taken away, but much more is being taken away. The risk that final customers will run out of gas is also covered by safety. It's incredibly annoying when part of the Netherlands runs out of gas, especially in winter, but it's something other than the risk of your house falling apart. Even the economic consequences for long-term non-gas companies are covered by safety. The explanatory memorandum even mentions security of supply as a fundamental right under the European Convention on Human Rights. The Council of State had a good laugh at that and then stated that there was really no such thing. Fortunately, the Minister deleted that passage. What the Minister did not remove is the curious combination of completely unequal interests under the umbrella of security. The minister puts security first, but not just that of the Groningen, but that of everyone and his mother. That's how you exploit the concept of security, and that's how you trivialize the security of the Groningers. Mr. Chairman. We must separate these interests: the security of the Groningen versus the security of gas supply. We need to be transparent about how these interests are weighed against each other. This brings me back to an important recommendation of the Research Council on Security, also from 2015, namely not only to invest that balance of interest in the Ministry of EZ today, but also to give EZK and other ministries an explicit role in it, especially when it comes to the safety of those Groningers. So that didn't happen, still hasn't. Even when the OVV asked for this for a second time, it explicitly asked for it the second time, and also not when the Dutch parliament adopted a motion to that effect in the spring of 2017. So I say to the Minister: avoid this kind of ambiguity, run the Wassenberg and others motion. (33529, No. 344) simply distribute the security interests of Groningers to a ministry other than yours, because then it becomes clear what security is involved. Mr. Chairman. I was just accusing the Minister of extending the concept of security, which could lead to confusion of speech. But on another point, I find the bill too narrow, too limited. We not only have to stop the earthquakes in Groningen, we also have to stop global warming. We need to look beyond Groningen's natural gas already in the interests of climate and future generations. Natural gas is a fossil fuel whose combustion contributes to global warming. Methane, the main component of natural gas, is itself also a very powerful greenhouse gas. And natural gas that leaks away from the extraction, distribution, transhipment and incineration thus contributes to a large extent to global warming. The Minister knows that, because I see him nodding in agreement. This means that we now have to make fundamentally different choices. If we are going to end the gas extraction from the Groningen field now, very well, that is really important, then we have to double immediately and not fall into the trap to replace natural gas with natural gas. The money we put in there is really wasted money. Never washed a good crisis, the English say. And if I translate that very badly, that means taking advantage of the opportunities that a crisis offers. So what aren't we supposed to do? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u145	Thank you, because I see you have an interruption from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u146	In a previous debate, I think I have also discussed this with Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u147	It belongs to the same party, so it can be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u148	That's right, even I remember. My question concerns the following. Here, of course, even the Party for Animals is facing a dilemma. You say: we prefer renewable energy. That's what the CDA wants most. But if you can't make that transition in the short term, then the Party prefers sustainability for the Animals, so take much more years before that, rather than safety? Let me get this straight. I was trying to get that up with Mr Van Raan, and I didn't really get that sharp at the time. I think the answer was: no, then wait longer before it is safe in Groningen. I still can't really imagine that. So I'm just gonna ask the question one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u149	You probably didn't understand that. Or maybe it hasn't been explained. So I'm gonna try again. We think it is very important to get that gas extraction in Groningen as soon as possible to 12 billion cubic metres and then to zero. That's what we thought, that's what we're gonna find, and we're gonna find it. We just think that you need to take much bigger steps to reduce that gas demand. Now, for example, we are talking to the big consumers, the number of 53 is mentioned, but no measures are being taken that hurt. The SodM advised at some point to promote that. I think that was yesterday; the days are going so fast. That was on 27 June; I think it was yesterday. I think the SodM was talking about a tax measure. This means, in practice, that there will be a heavy burden on it. As soon as you take measures to make these 53 large consumers more sustainable, it is moving forward. So I am not talking about the transition from gas to gas, but about real sustainability. Now they are actually a bit weak measures or no real measures at all. Take measures, even if they hurt. Make sure that gas demand is reduced. Then you can avoid that instantly low-caloric gas is replaced by high-caloric gas, which has to be converted into a nitrogen factory. I'll talk to you about that! Try to get rid of that gas!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u150	Is it clearer now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u151	In my opinion, it's a little better than the previous answer. But I'm gonna ask around. What does that mean for safety? Suppose a plant in Groningen or in the rest of the Netherlands that are large consumers across the country can't take over within these few years. If that plant is built for that high-caloric nitrogen, you can mix it. What if they can't? Do you say: but I just want them to shut down those factories in those three years just like you can switch to high-caloric gas? How am I supposed to read that? I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u152	Mrs Mulder is asking a strictly hypothetical question. She asks, what if an unnamed company, an X company, couldn't do it all? Then I can just say: but that company can do better. So it's a little hard to talk about such a hypothetical case. All I'm saying is, as a government, you can do more to reduce that gas demand. Mrs Mulder is asking a question about a moment when it appears that it is not possible. Yes, there are many possibilities to replace gas with better alternatives. You can also think at some point of time of algae that can make gas. I'm just mentioning something. But what I'm against is replacing low-caloric gas with high-caloric gas, the conversion. Mrs Mulder asks: how can a company have no other choice? It's hard to answer that. Maybe they didn't do their best enough. Maybe there are possibilities after all. So it's hard to answer that. I believe that more needs to be done to put pressure on these companies. Make the gas a lot more expensive. There are many opportunities that have not yet been used to reduce gas demand. We need to make more use of that than we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u153	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u154	I still see Mrs Mulder looking a little disgruntled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u155	But I suggest you just continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u156	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I shall now move on to what at least we should not do. I was just talking about the nitrogen factory. We should not spend half a billion euros in a nitrogen plant that will make natural gas from abroad suitable for Dutch use. We should not allow the 53 largest consumers to switch to foreign natural gas for a quarter of a million euros. Does the Minister agree with me that we are knowingly creating our own lock-in because we put so much money into it? Yes, the transition to renewable energy is costly, but financing intermediate solutions that we already know are limited to sustainability and that they are in fact obsolete at the time of their construction is also a waste of money. Because the nitrogen factory doesn't run endlessly. We have to get rid of that at some point. Nor should we use fiscal benefits as baits to stimulate, for example, gas extraction in the North Sea. We just got a letter from the Minister about that. This included, for example, increasing the funding deduction for new investments in the North Sea from 25% to 40%, making it more attractive to obtain gas in the North Sea. We shouldn't do that. These are all short-sighted measures. These are all short-term measures. Mr. Chairman. It does not reassure me that the Minister has narrowed his gas policy to a security issue in which it is enough to replace Groningen gas with gas from elsewhere. Replacing gas with gas is not a solution to the climate problem. It's shifting the problem. I hardly read anything about sustainable alternatives in the Minister's letters. Those big consumers I was just talking about being released in the decision whether or not to make it more sustainable. The Minister is talking to large consumers of low-caloric gas about the possibility of a voluntary transfer from low-caloric gas to high-caloric gas on a voluntary basis, but it is voluntary to switch from low-caloric gas to high-caloric gas or to make it more sustainable. According to the Minister, these talks are constructive, but I have serious doubts about them too. Is that so? Because at the climate table for industry the place is stuck; we could read that in the newspaper last week. Large consumers want to be more sustainable, but if they are allowed to charge the taxpayer: please, thank you. Unfortunately, the news surrounding the other climate tables also promises little good. Sheila Sitalsing summarized it in her Volkskrant column on Monday as follows: "The essence of negotiation is to give as little as possible, to take as much as possible." Housing corporations, greenhouse horticulture, industrial large consumers, agriculture; they all want to see government money first, so taxpayers' money, before they take steps towards sustainability. The Financial Daily wrote on 22 June about the climate tables that I quote: 'the belief in climate goals so far has been mostly spoken out'. That means a lot of talk, more talk, and eventually, when it comes to companies, nothing happens. They say: yes, we do want to do something, but you do it first, and where can we send the bill? Mr. Chairman. The fossil-free and sustainable future does not come naturally. We need solid frameworks. Why is the Minister waiting for compelling measures when it will enable the gas tap to be shut down more quickly? The SodM also asks the Minister to come forward with this in the short term, so that large consumers can get rid of the Groningen gas faster. The SodM calls a ban on Groningen gas and a significant increase in the gas tax. I'd like a response. I would also ask the Minister why he has allowed gas demand to be leading instead of gas supply for the phasing out of Groningen gas. That's gonna keep us... I'll stop, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u157	I see an interruption by Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is still about the previous point, because I did not quite realize that Mr Wassenberg was already ready. Mr Wassenberg and I very much agree that the phasing out of the use of Groningen gas in the Netherlands should actually mean one-on-one sustainability rather than an intermediate step with other fossil fuels. Now we held a round table a while ago and then the province of North Brabant called on us to make sure that the switch from Groningen gas to sustainability can take place. If we are going to use too much pressure to do it all at once in the short term, then a lot of companies would probably have no choice but to choose another fossil fuel because switching to geothermal or electrifying simply takes one or two years of investment. Is Mr Wassenberg prepared to put that sustainability into one with D66, but in such a way that companies can make that happen over the next few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u159	I think companies can make that happen. Companies now pay almost nothing for gas. Consumers pay much more and consumers are already being proposed to increase the tax by 75%. At companies, we might do the same, but 75% of nothing is nothing yet. At the moment you're going to make that energy tax on gas really more expensive, you're going to make it a lot more attractive for companies to make it more sustainable. You're gonna lower that threshold a little bit. It's not about saying we're gonna put the knife on your throat, or you're gonna go bankrupt or you're gonna last. It's about making it much more attractive, even financially... Let me put it another way: to make it more unattractive to continue using gas and other fossil fuels. It's not like you're forcing people like you're sending people. Fiscal measures can be a very interesting instrument for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u160	I agree with Mr Wassenberg. Indeed, we need to turn as many buttons as possible to make it profitable to make that sustainability very quick. I think we should just wait for the final climate agreement, because I am confident that it will be taken care of. Because of all kinds of interests, the newspapers are now being leaked. So let's just wait for that climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u161	I did not hear a question, but Mr Jetten can be assured that I will look at that agreement with great interest. I will, of course, take a critical look at it! Mr. Chairman. I asked the Minister why he allowed the gas demand to be leading instead of the supply for the reduction of Groningen gas, because it remains dependent on the willingness or perhaps, rather, the slowness of industry. That is why we are tabling the SP amendment. It reverses this and therefore closes the gas tap by 2030 at the latest, or rather if possible. Mr President, I will conclude. With the proposed legislative changes, there are two losers: Groningers and the climate. The Minister is not doing enough justice to the security of those Groningers, and that security is really a core concept. The necessary restoration of trust, fears the Party for Animals, will not be achieved. The climate depends on the good will of companies, and expensive investments may mean that we are stuck with foreign natural gas for many years. The major consumers are the winning party and their short-term economic interests are safeguarded, because their interests are protected by general security. Mr. Chairman. If it's up to the Animal Party, those changes of law will go back to the drawing board. And finally I want to say something, one last word, about the deal with Shell and Exxon. It's been discussed before. Since those answers did not come in until this late, it is difficult to deal with them very comprehensively now. A number of spokesmen have already asked very good questions about it. Mr Nijboer is gone now, but he has also asked very good, critical questions about it. The Minister's reply was also in response to his questions. I do not have any further supplementary questions, but I would like to say something about them. I share the concerns of colleagues. I share the concern that Shell and Exxon will no longer receive 10% of the gas profit but 27%. That is an increase of 170%! And that is also indigestible for the Party for Animals. At the same time, the NAM does not fill the compensation fund with 500 million but only with 135 million. 865 million is paid by the taxpayer and 135 million by the NAM. That is also indigestible, especially when you see that that amount is indeed spread over twelve years. You'll end up at a lousy 11 million euros a year, paid by the NAM, and the rest by the government and thus by the taxpayer. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u162	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. That's how we got to the end of the first term. I propose that we suspend to eat and give the Minister time to prepare his answers. We'll gather back here at 8:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u163	I will give the floor immediately to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u164	Mr. Chairman. The most frequently mentioned word in this debate is already'safety', and that security was precisely, but precisely, the reason why extraction should be reduced to zero. The seismicity combined with slow-moving reinforcement measures means that we cannot guarantee that the safety of the Groningers was secured, and that is why gas extraction goes to zero. The two subjects we are discussing here are simply a consequence of that. This is to make that possible. That's what I'm going to do, I'll admit, at great speed. Mr Van der Lee has, I think, summarized this very nicely. He said: "I understand the rush, but hurry also causes unrest and haste also causes polarization, and we don't want that." He also called on me to be generous in my information. That's what I care about, and I'm gonna try. I am doing so now and possibly by giving further information. What's the rush? Not because we want to chase it through. Nor do I believe that this cabinet has the reputation of rushing through it in vast amounts of legislation. What's going on is this. I would like to win as little as possible in the next gas year and that starts in October. That's why it's necessary for that law to exist. In order for that law to exist, it must be notified to the First Chamber at some point and that will be next week. People have calculated that neatly for me. I should never be questioned too harshly about procedures, because then I will soon be lost, but people who know this say: it must go to the First Chamber next week. Then the votes should be on Tuesday. You can't guarantee that, but I'm gonna try and earn that. But the underlying thought is not in any way that I would like to chase anything through it. I also think that this is a legislative proposal on which a lot of people have thought very wisely and thoroughly, so I am going to defend it, but my request would be to allow us, if possible, to reduce gas extraction as soon as possible. Indeed, it is expected that this bill will actually be able to bring extraction down to less than it would otherwise be possible in the next gas year. That's what I'm fighting for. I've made this a personal battle, but I share it with many in this Chamber, so I won't claim anything. Many of you were earlier with your call, but it is now my fight to really go down as soon as possible. That's about the pace. Mr Nijboer says, and I understand that: 'that agreement on the main lines is very hasty, because we really do have just that'. I agree with him. Now I don't act here. I'm gonna pop up, but I'll try to answer everything about that, too. Mr Nijboer said nothing ugly about that, but he did highlight that the piece was just inside with those questions. People have just been working hard on that. It all had to be done in a short time, so I am honestly very grateful to the people that it happened so quickly, but I understand that he had to read very quickly. Mr. Chairman. This law, of course, regulates that we make the extraction for Groningen the final piece. All other sources go first. Only "if and in so far as" other sources, and then "still," fail, will be extracted from the Groningen field. The NAM keeps paying. That's what arrangements are for, which I'll come up with later. The responsibility for the reinforcement becomes public, but NAM is no longer on the crane. NAM gets away from everything. The big question is now, and many of you have asked him how we deal with the safety of the residents. It is true that there are two safety concepts. Both in the opinion of the Council of State and in the speech of several members, the safety of residents was central. The Council of State has said two things about this. He said that this should take precedence over security of supply. Implicitly they also say that it takes precedence over security for others other than the neighbors. They argue that in the triangle the concept of "security for residents" deserves priority. That's the word the Council of State uses. In relation to this, the Council of State also says that they consider the balance to be very unbound. That is the Minister's decision. They advise to limit the balance of interests more. It follows the opinion of the Council of State to amend Article 52d. The crux has not yet emerged. It is therefore a good thing that this debate is part of the history of law. What is said here is true. That is why I would like to say here that there is indeed a priority. I'll explain. The discussion is only about how this has been operationalised in the law. I would like to point out that priority. In a law, two forms of priority are conceivable. One is that there is priority in weighing other interests, in this case security of customers and other societal interests. The primacy manifests itself in the sense that the balancing is heavily focused on the safety of the residents. That is a weighting with an obvious demonstrable and motivating dominant importance. The other form of priority is binary. You'll see it in traffic. You don't have a little priority; you either have priority or you don't. One always goes for the other. One is put above the other in absolute terms. When I study the opinion of the Council of State, it is clear to me that he is in favour of the first model. This is done in a weighting, but a weighting indicating that a heavier weight should be assigned to the safety of residents and that this should also be more framed. It is less spacious and more bound by rules. There's a rule on how that consideration should look. That is also what we read in the opinion of the Council of State. For example, the Council of State explicitly states somewhere that the Minister should weigh the facts and circumstances and indicates that the dilemma between security and security of supply in that weighting is never completely soluble. I think it will eventually, because we're going to go to zero, but that's not what the Council of State means. That weighting is also in line with the opinion of the SodM. The SodM did not say: go to zero now, but go to twelve as soon as possible. We made that zero. That also indicates a weighting. How is this priority, which I confirm in this debate, to be operational? First of all, this was done by following the opinion of the Council of State by making Article 52d more restrictive and by adding criteria to it. In response to the opinion of the Council of State, it was subsequently stated that the safety of residents should also be given a significant importance. In the end, priority must also be derived from the fact that we made the rules of priority very clear on 29 March. In the fastest possible path, demand for low-caloric gas is reduced. The demand for low-caloric gas is no longer considered a given, which has been the case in the past. That question is being actively reduced. There is no given demand for low-caloric gas. The offer is also viewed in a different way. A nitrogen factory is being built so we no longer have to look at the Groningenveld to this extent. The "no more than necessary" bill is also a form of this. In the past you focused on a safe number, in the sense of "this is enough" and what you had left left you. Those are the operationalisations of that concept of priority. You can technically do that no one here has done that other interpretation, which is 1 and 0. Once again, it soon becomes colder than ever. No one did. If you use the absolute principle of priority, it will no longer be a weighting. In that case, the word 'weighting', which the Council of State does refer to, will actually lapse. For example, you could include the word "priority" in the law, the word "priority." That's not what the Council of State recommends. It doesn't say that. That would lead to that if you go to 12 or 0 bcm... I am not going to have dramatic stories about children sitting in the cold here. It is a serious debate, but there are very big consequences, because that means that you should actually go to zero at this point in time. With the absolute word "precedent" in the law you can take it so that you now have to go to zero and then you not only probably hit the entire business of the Netherlands, but also individuals. That's not what the SodM and the Council of State intend. Priority is what they aim to do, and that priority is what I am saying here and I read that several spokesmen who have not yet seen enough have been operationalized in this way. In doing so, we have now for the first time upgraded the concept of security in the law. We have also transposed this priority into the very different design of that mining decision. This means that there is no other option now than to zero as soon as possible. Now, several speakers have said here: if you take that concept of "priority" so seriously and operationalise it in this way, would it not be appropriate for you to motivate it better? I have to say, however, that Article 53d, which deals with this matter, does not contain any obligation to state reasons, but the debate is also part of the legal history on this point. I think that is not only a sensible request, but also an understandable and perhaps necessary request. I would like to make a commitment here that there is a statement of reasons, a statement of reasons which shows how the concept of'security for residents' has been given priority and how this is reflected in the mining decision. I see there's a question about that. Now I don't want to play president, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u165	I see movement there, too. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying to this point. I think the reasoning he is following is clear in itself. I also understand that he appreciates the coalition amendment. Well, let's talk about the binary contradiction. I have tabled a slightly different amendment, also because two safety concepts are distinguished: those of residents and those of people who depend on the supply of gas that are at risk of safety. You could also give priority to the security interest, which includes both elements, above that of the more comprehensive security of supply to society. That's not a binary contradiction. It makes it very clear that safety is a guiding principle. I do not quite understand, in the reasoning followed so far by the Minister, why this option does not bring a bit more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u167	I do not know exactly how our views differ. I have said that I believe that there should be a justification for how the safety of residents has been given priority and how this has led to this consideration. I do not quite have the difference with what Mr Van der Lee is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u168	In the amendment I simply propose to give priority to the safety issue over the social interest. That is the amendment to item No. 7. I also do not quite understand why the Minister wants to avoid the word "priority" in the law. Except in that binary contradiction, but I didn't go for it, and that's not how it's put.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u169	No, but the point about an article of law is that we are never sure that the intention of the author of an amendment is guiding the interpretation. The Council of State does not propose to incorporate the word "priority" into the law. I think that we should anchor the concept of priority, i.e. the mode of action, in this legal process. But the word "priority" can be interpreted as a binary and I don't feel like it. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u170	Finally, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u171	We can argue about the interpretation of what the Council of State writes, but it speaks explicitly of limiting the competence of the Minister on this point and of explicitly anchoring security as a priority. Then you can say that the Council of State did not say: take the word literally in the law. That's right. I do, however, read here a plea to limit the Minister's competence on this point. And that's not motivating, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u172	No, but the limit is already contained in Article 52d criteria. Furthermore, the limitation has now also slipped into this legal treatment by adding the word "precedent" with a comprehensive justification, which now also means that this priority is already intended to be a fact. But if we introduce the word "priority," then the word "priority" may mean something quite different, that binary concept. In fact, I note that Mr Van der Lee and I are trying to do the same, namely non-binary operationalisation of priority. My position is, and I dare to do so on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, that we do not implement it by including the word 'precedent' in the law, but by describing here in a nuanced manner, but with strong terms, what it is intended to do and in this case to commit myself to a duty of motivation, whereby democratic control on this issue can take place over and over again, every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u173	At the same point? Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u174	The Minister says that there is a binary concept of security and that we are not talking about it. Then one always has priority over the other, so nothing has to be weighed. That's right. But the Council of State is actually saying the same thing as the Security Research Council: give priority to that concept of security or make it more important. In fact, he also says: limit the Minister's influence here. But the Security Research Council has explicitly stated that it is now investing that security interest for its residents in another ministry. Isn't this a good opportunity to do that right away? Then the Minister of EZK has the interests of security of supply in his hand and another ministry mainly the interests of security for the residents. So there are two ministries involved in this assessment, which is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u175	I don't know if that'll make the trade-off better. SodM doesn't think so. I do not feel very strongly about drawing all kinds of institutional discussions on such an important issue as the consideration of security for residents. SodM doesn't see any reason for that. I don't see the cause either. In my view, the important point here is whether we are sufficiently ensuring that we give priority to security for residents in a non-binary way and that we motivate this in the implementation so that it is also subject to democratic control. That's the jumping point. We can also have all kinds of institutional discussions, but that is something else. Nor do I see any reason for these institutional discussions. I must honestly say that we have enough work to come forward, so I would also like to avoid them. But it's another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u176	That is not entirely another point, because the Security Research Council wrote about it. I do not want to do text-exegesis of the Council of State's piece, but you can also read that. Last year, the Chamber adopted a motion which also states that: 'take it up with other ministries'. So it is more than just an institutional discussion. There is a request from several authorities and also from the Court to invest this in different ministries. The minister can say he doesn't feel like it, but there's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u177	Whatever is going on is that the discussion has already taken place and that we are threatening to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u178	We are now discussing the opinion of the Council of State. If it says what I read at the OVV, you can't just say: we're going to do the discussion again. I am now basing myself on the source of the Council of State and I think it would be useful to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u179	Well, I haven't read the jumping point of the Council of State on this point, but on priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u180	Mrs Beckerman, here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u181	I'd like to get on with this. When we look back, it turns out that security of supply has been above security for a very long time. You know, you have said it very often yourself, that this has created an enormous distrust among Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u183	You'll only get that trust back with certainty. And what's wrong with you saying "I'm gonna say it tonight and I'm gonna say it again," right at this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u184	Can you talk through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u185	Yes, excuse the chairman. What is wrong with making this point much more explicit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u186	I would really like to look for ways to make it more explicit, but not through harsh provisions in the law. That's what I'm saying. That's gonna go wrong. There's a risk of that, and we shouldn't. I'd be happy to look for ways to anchor that. In fact, I think that the legal history is a very suitable platform for this. That's what we're doing here. But I do not feel that the proposal to embed it in legal texts in this binary way. That's not the method. Groningers aren't waiting for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u187	Well, that's quite an assumption. I think that Groningers is waiting for this, also in view of all the responses that have been received by the Internet consultation and the fact that the Council of State continues to repeat this point even after the law has been amended. I find that we are not making much progress here, and I regret that. I think this is an essential point of the law: how do we ensure that we understand what consideration is being made? Just because it's gone wrong so many times in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u188	I think it's a jumping point, and I also think that insight is good. That is already a gain in this debate. I have said that I agree not only with the priority but also with the understanding of the reasons behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u189	Okay, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u190	I'm going on. There are some questions that have more general to do with this. There was a question from Mr Van der Lee about the location of the Groningenveld. I'm not really aware of any ambiguity about that at all. It's defined somewhere. Sometimes there's a discussion about pieces on the edge, but to make that clear, you have to drill and I thought we shouldn't do that. So I don't know about any major disagreements about that. Mr Van der Lee also asked about the Meet- en Regerprotocol. Why a chance? Yeah, that's actually a good point. Yeah, but we'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u191	Is this the answer to that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u192	I think we can still see him somewhere in the amendments. Then there is a question from GroenLinks that relates to this, namely whether we win on an exact number; how does that work? I believe that Mr Van der Lee asked that question. How do we determine that? Is it a minimum, is it a maximum, is it some kind of midpoint? How much gas is needed for the security of supply in the definition of "down as soon as possible," the minimum that GTS advises on is calculated by the system operator. GTS makes these calculations on the basis of a degree-day formula, the starting point being that all other sources are used to their maximum extent. That degree-day formula creates a link between temperature and demand. It's getting clicked. So once you've done that, you can also calculate at the end of the year, given that you know the temperatures, whether too much gas has been extracted. That means you can send as little as possible throughout the year. Not one number is sent, but in fact on a table that depends on the temperature on the different days. That's how it's done, and that's how you can adjust. Mr Nijboer asks why GTS has so much power. Well, "so much power..." GTS knows most about it. It's an independent network operator. The Ministry of Finance is the sole shareholder, but it is not a company that serves a kind of commercial purpose, but happens to be in state ownership. It doesn't seem quite like Holland Casino to me. I've worked my ass off to lose Holland Casino, but I haven't quite managed to do that in my previous job. But that's really something else. That's really something else. GTS is the only one who can see independently, without commercial interests, what goes through the system, who has all the knowledge and knows what is needed, but also what is no longer needed. Mr Nijboer also asks about the Mining Council. This is an advisory body set up by the Mining Act, which is also requested but also advises unsolicited, primarily within the licensing procedure. It now consists of nine people and has expertise in all kinds of fields. In that sense, it is not an external party that would not be independent. Nor is it the case that there is a new power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u193	I see an interruption by Mrs Mulder. Did you finish this point or not, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u194	I have completed this point, but I do not know whether Mr Nijboer would like to ask any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u195	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u196	My question is about GTS. How can we see clearly and beyond that they are doing their best to go down as quickly as possible? Because it is also an organization that exists by the grace of gas. When I think about "turf, gin and suspicion" on his Drents, I think: yes, what interest do they have in perhaps finishing their own business as quickly as possible? How can we see that they are really trying their hardest? How can we make that followable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u197	The question has been asked, but can I come back to that later in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u198	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u199	I have an answer to that, but I try to do it a bit by subject and then by spokesperson. I don't know if it's completely clear, but I'll come back to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u200	I'll keep an eye on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u201	Can't you draw this up from your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u202	Well, I guess I'll just have to look a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u203	Then you'll continue, but we'll keep an eye on it. Mr. Nijboer, would you like to interrupt on this subject, or would you like to hold off on that? No, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u204	No, it was the answers to my questions, so I think it's a logical time to ask. My question was not so much about the fact that the Mining Council was not a public body or about its independence. My question was more: do they have the capacity and experience to do so? It is a very heavy responsibilities that are invested at the Mining Council and at GTS. Are they prepared for that now that they're actually getting that out of the top hat on their plate? That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u205	I don't think we can talk about a top hat at the Mining Council. Nor does much change their powers and their role. They've been equipped for that. Well, let me just say something about GTS. I'm doing it out of my head. I am going to answer Mrs Mulder's question in order to answer Mr Nijboer's question. GTS is not just a public body. It's the party that made a whole menu of options for me for that letter on March 29, they've been working on it for months. Someone else couldn't have done that. This is the party that can do that. They're also under surveillance. They're under the supervision of the ACM. Then you have a public authority supervised by a public supervisor. That supervisor shall also monitor that GTS correctly takes into account the minimising of gas extraction from the Groninger Field. In this way it is monitored. We don't have a party other than GTS with that much expertise. This is a public party under public supervision. I'd dare. They've been very helpful to us. They've been extremely artful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u206	The Minister has every confidence in it. We need to see if that's true. I'm not necessarily suspicious of those intentions, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u207	No, I don't hear that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u208	It's very easy to cross the Mine Council's point. The Mining Council is going to give an opinion on reinforcements on Monday. They have never done that before, because reinforcement advice in the Netherlands is really not a common thing that gives everyone on the assembly line in mining activities. That's really something new, with a new advice we've been given this week. That's a huge responsibility. You know more than anyone how politically sensitive that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u209	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u210	So that's a huge responsibility. The Mining Council will now have another task here. They have to do that with nine men; I don't think that much. I think that the Minister is underestimating the impact and responsibility of these institutions, which are really trying to do their best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u211	This isn't just the Miners' Council. The Mining Council makes a so-called "integrating advice." There are still four consultative bodies behind this. All these partial opinions will also be made public. The Mining Council has brought it together, which, by the way, has been profiting from the beginning. The various experts from the support and participating organisations had in part never met. You put together the best mining, subsurface and building experts and then they don't always seem to have met. So that's a win in itself. There seems to have been extremely insightful discussions about what we know and what we don't know, which turned out to be quite something. That's done a lot of good. We must continue to do so. But the Mining Council is not the party that's going to make that up for itself. It shall draw up an integral opinion. That is what I am waiting for, and so is Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u212	Mrs Mulder asked a question that I also asked in the debate, but I asked a question. I'm a little worried that it's going to snow because that other question has been brought forward, so I'm gonna ask you my question. I did not just point out that GTS and GasTerra have a commercial interest in gas extraction and therefore have an influential position. The SodM made the suggestion to solve this and said: shouldn't you only legally require them to lower, but shouldn't you also legally accept that they should do so as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u213	The monitoring of GTS is aimed, among other things, at ensuring that they minimise the extraction from the Groningen field. Another word for this is "decrease as quickly as possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u214	Yeah, but that's after. You look after yourself as a supervisor. But the SodM, the regulator himself, said: arrange this legally, because it is two parties with a commercial interest in the extraction of gas that have to arrange for the extraction of gas to go down. Then why wouldn't you take that legally, to really guarantee that, as your own supervisor so kindly suggests?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u215	Yeah, why? I'll come back to this in the second term. I don't see why. They are now the ones who have just shown us the path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u216	I would like to give Mrs Beckerman a chance to mention a few arguments. Then the Minister himself can decide whether to reply to that question or to come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u217	Why is that? Because they also have a commercial interest. Because we want to do it right in one go. Because it hasn't gone well for years with that phasing-out. Because it was opaque for years. If you say that they are of good will and have good intentions, it is not such a big problem to record it. Because then it is both clear and you make a nice commitment in the debate and the SodM is happy. So it's a win-win-win situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u218	I take this input with me when I answer in the second term. I'm telling you, the pledge match is coming through me. Mrs Mulder asked for a ministerial arrangement and asked for it to be put forward. That's the arrangement that needs to be put in place. If this bill comes into force, then that ministerial arrangement must also be there. It's incredibly hard work. At the moment, the department has untruthful things to do at the same time. I admit that this arrangement is natural before the law enters into force. I'd like to try to send these to you after the summer. We can also discuss this once more. But there is simply no longer time for a pending procedure. I am receptive to all the remarks made by the Chamber, but an official veil simply does not work. Again, I'm kind of fanatical about getting the gas down next year. Finally, in this chapter, and there will be more chapters, Mrs Dik-Faber asks whether safety standards are an absolute standard. I also had to say this out loud in Groningen: the norm 10 is not under discussion. Everywhere in the Netherlands the same standard is not affected. That is one of the primers for the inevitable decision, in my view, to cut down the extraction of gas, because that standard simply applies, whatever else you may think of it. That's true, period. Then I wanted to answer a few questions about interim response. That's part of this. I will then have liability, duty of care and several points concerning the SodM and then I will talk about the agreement in broad terms. Among other things, Mrs Mulder was concerned that we are sufficiently responsive to a change in seismicity. Are we prepared to do so? Mr. Nijboer spoke of Article 52e. Something has been added to that on the advice of the SodM about heavy earthquakes and there are all rather shocking terms in the explanatory statement, so that you say: if we do not move until this kind of situation occurs, then something is wrong in the Netherlands, and those are my words. He didn't say it unkindly, but he said it firm. I think there's something else going on. For starters, the cycle goes from five to one year. The gas extraction decision is in five years, but you're going to recalibrate annually to go down as much as you can. We used to do that every five years. That's one. Now it's about Article 52e. That's new, and that means you can intervene in the meantime. That has a very different background. That member c of the SodM shouldn't have been there at all. That doesn't fit at all. That's for something else, which is, if you're really trying to get as little gas as possible and you're walking very close to the abyss, I'll just say, you need something that, in emergencies, if you've really made a wrong calculation, you can do something temporarily. It may be that you intervene and do something with the demand, but it may also be that you do something with the offer. You need that because it allows you to walk very close to the edge and win as little as possible. That is what Article 52e is for, but we already had an article on Mrs Mulder's question, which says that something is happening with seismicity. Then I don't necessarily have to wait for a measurement and control protocol. I don't have to wait for advice from the SodM. You can find on all kinds of grounds that seismicity gives you a reason to intervene, in any way. And that's Article 50. That already existed. That's already there. That article allows you, on the basis of any serious indications, to decide, so to speak, to turn off the gas tap, which is obviously a balancing factor. Well, then you've got other problems, but apparently you've made a trade-off that it was worth it in that case. It's possible. So there's that article. I think there has been confusion because another article has been added which has to do with 'no more than necessary'. Looks like it's about seismicity. The confusion is only increased by adding a paragraph c, with seismicity, and then there are deaths. Mr. Nijboer didn't know what he was reading and he's right. This has caused confusion, but we have this article and we should have it. There is; there are those possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u219	I see that Mr Jetten wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u220	My interruption is about this point. Thank you for this very clear answer from the Minister. I am glad that we still have that Article 50 and can therefore intervene. At the technical briefing we had last Tuesday, I felt that the intervention could take a long time. Could the Minister please explain at what time an intervention is possible, should the seismicity give rise to this and we still want to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u221	That intervention is not bound by a deadline in my knowledge, but I will verify it for the second time, so I will now give the preliminary answer. You don't have to wait for an opinion from either one of them or a procedure for this or that. The article gives you the mandate to do so. I'll check it out. This too is a point for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u222	I'm glad the Minister's gonna check that out. Then we'll hear the final answer. Maybe he can ask whether this intervention will take place in the new gas year or can take place in the current year. That is, according to my opinion, the lack of clarity that arose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u223	You can do that at any time. Again: to test for the second term. Mr Van der Lee asked about liability. In an earlier debate, Mrs Sazias has already referred to it as a non-sustainable legal solution. Mr Van der Lee asks: it is all nice that this has been arranged, but how will it be arranged later? I am trying as soon as possible to bring forward a legislative proposal to deal with the damage in public law and to consult it. I hope it's more a matter of days. It'll tell you how it's done. The reason I haven't been able to give it in consultation yet is that it's not finished yet. So I can't be completely definitive about it. But even then, it is so arranged that the NAM always pays for it. In its Opinion, the Section did not raise any objections to the interim arrangements currently in place. The experts in this area think it is sustainable. She may not be the ultimate beauty, but she's sustainable. We also discussed this in the debate one or two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u224	I'm not a lawyer myself, so I need help with this. What does legal liability mean more than taking responsibility for all costs arising from damages?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u225	Those are all kinds of... Yeah, you call that liability? Let me see if I can answer that properly. Let me put it this way. Liability in the event of damage within the meaning of the Civil Code: that is the construction in which we say that strictly speaking the NAM could not have caused the damage because it was not on the crane. But the article of the Civil Code has been terminated; therefore, that liability still works and they have to pay for damage. But there are all kinds of other forms in which you have responsibility for something. For example, we have the duty of care. The duty of care, so to speak, has been sanctioned through the Law on Economic Crimes. That was criminal law. That was also a responsibility, but it was enforced through criminal law. That's changed; I'll get to that in a minute. Some of them are still running through the Economic Crimes Act. For example, if the NAM fails to comply with the operational strategy, the NAM encounters criminal law. Other obligations of care, such as the limitation of injury, which is not related to the determination of the level of extraction, but other ways in which the NAM is still considered to limit the damage, may, for example, be enforced by a sanction from the inspector-general. Well, that's administrative law. There are all kinds of duties for the NAM, where the term 'liability' is reserved for the payment of damages in this debate, but we have forced all kinds of other duties in other ways. So you can see that both civil and administrative law and criminal law all play a role in this in one way or another, and that all these responsibilities are enforced in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u226	Yes, that's what I was afraid of: that it's very complex and it's not always clear with this bill what liability ends up with who. Is it the NAM? Or is it the state? I think we need that insight. Perhaps as a Chamber, as part of this legal process, we should have written down how that has been dealt with, otherwise we will be faced with problems, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u227	Let me put it this way: there is such a need for information from Mr Van der Lee. No, I don't think it's that complex, but at least it doesn't cause any problems. Let me accept the burden of proof and put it on paper before the votes. At least the votes hoped for, because I have to follow the Chamber and not the other way around: you decide when the votes are. But let me send you a letter about that. This is about liability: the different forms of duty of care that are enforced in different ways and their hardness. I'll put that together. Those are all things the NAM has to stick to. I will outline in one letter how it is going to be done and how it is going to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u228	That is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u229	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u230	Then I'm going to see Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u231	Yeah, that's a very nice commitment. Does that letter therefore address the question of the general duty of care for the practitioners of the Mining Act? Why does it expire for the performers of the Groningen field? Because if something does happen, then who is responsible? Well, that's in line, I guess. Can that be answered, too? And then there's one more question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u232	Why don't we get a divorce? Did I hear a yes from the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u233	Yeah, I think this is good. I'm gonna go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u234	Great, thank you. Then there's that bill that's in consultation right now. The Minister said: I think there is in a matter of days. But it would be so good for us if we could take a quick look at that, even before the same votes. If it's a matter of days, is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u235	One second. This question is not about the letter I just promised, but about the legislative proposals in consultation. I'm gonna speed that up as much as I can. The less haste I make, the more grumpy the Chamber gets about the votes. I get that. I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u236	Thank you. That's very clear. Then we can indeed look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u237	The sooner the better. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u238	Okay. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u239	This liability is simply an essential point that many people have pointed out. I see now that under pressure everything becomes liquid: you want to get those votes and you come up with a promise for a letter. But a lot of people have actually asked the Minister to settle this explicitly in the law, so that there is no doubt about that liability. Is the Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u240	I am going to write down in that letter how it has already been regulated by law or how it is regulated by law. I will describe what forms of responsibility can be enforced in what ways and how that changes. I'm gonna write that down. The following is, however, important. There is sometimes confusion here about the separation between criminal law and civil law. Look, liability is civil law: you just get money from someone. There were also questions in the vein of "What if you want to start a business as a Groninger?" But you don't start a criminal case. Citizens don't do that. So that's different, and I'll sketch it out. So no one loses the ability to start a business or defend their interests. So I'll try to describe that clearly. Because let me put it this way: I think it's well arranged and it's not very complex, but when you see all these loose concepts side by side, it's confusing at first. I'm going to dedicate a letter to that. My intention in response to Mr Van der Lee is to provide you with as much information as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u241	Citizens don't start a criminal case? There's actually a criminal case against the NAM right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u242	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u243	That's a big criminal case, where people are heard almost every day. A case that is of great value to a lot of Groningen people. They want to follow that case. Actually, I'm a little embarrassed. I have asked a lot of questions about this economic crime, because that is an essential point. Now it's still possible, now people are running that trial. We are really having half a debate right now, because you just have to come up with letters...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u244	I don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u245	No, you don't, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. The Minister now gives all kinds of letters. I find that a little embarrassing. This should have been absolutely clear before the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u246	I think it's in the pieces, but I just offered to put it together in one letter, just to provide that clarity. Then I guess it's a good thing I'm coming up with that letter as soon as I can, instead of getting things up, because then it's clearer. I'm gonna see if we can send that letter quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u247	Can I ask the Minister to answer the questions as much as possible? Because then people still have the opportunity to say something back. A letter has been promised, but it is useful that the Minister responds to the questions as much as possible and as he has prepared it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u248	The most important point, I think, is the rights of the Groningen people; Mr Jetten, but Mrs Beckerman also asked for them. That liability will remain in place. There is no nibbling on the possibilities of someone with damage to file a claim and get his claim granted. That's not at stake here. Things change in the way in which the duty of care is handled, the way in which it is monitored or the way in which it is sanctioned, and things change where the duty of care rests, but the liability is what touches the Groningen citizen under civil law and continues to exist. That is, I think, the most important point that has been put to me a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u249	Mrs Mulder has a question about the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u250	I am really very happy with the promise of a letter. I hope that will provide the clarification we are all waiting for. Is that letter going to clarify the basis for the reinforcement? We will discuss that topic next week, so it would be a nice little bridge if it is clear that it is also in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u251	The letter cannot go into that because the bill is not yet in place, but I will try to point out that it is the intention to keep the payment obligation with NAM. That is absolutely the case. That is the joint wish of the Chamber, the Cabinet and the region. But I have already confirmed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u252	A follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u253	I'm happy about that. I would like it very much if the change from now on, the direction in which the Minister thinks, could be taken into account in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u254	I'll take the direction of thought. Mr Van der Lee specifically asked about the duty of care. The legislative proposal refers to a limitation of adverse effects and not to their prevention. This is because the duty of care changes in nature. The duty of care can no longer relate to the opening and closing of the crane, but to the way in which the winning is carried out and the way in which the extraction plan is carried out. So there is still a duty of care and it is still sanctioned; it has not disappeared, but has changed in nature. That makes sense, because certain responsibilities are being removed from NAM. Mrs Beckerman wonders whether NAM is still a criminal offence. The NAM can still be a criminal offence for all kinds of things, but not for those things that are related to the level of extraction, because that's not what NAM determines anymore. I hear Mrs Beckerman asking: but who is? The government is responsible for the level of extraction. The damage shall be reimbursed by the NAM. That's how it stays.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u255	Right now, you can sue the NAM on the basis of the Economic Crimes Act. Will you be able to hold the government responsible on the same grounds?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u256	The Law on Economic Crimes is criminal law. A civilian can't sue a criminal. That's different. Those possibilities don't change either. The NAM can still be dealt with under criminal law, but the domain in which it can be addressed changes as a result of shifting responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u257	It is not for nothing that the Mining Act has incorporated this clause and that it applies to the whole country. Wherever mining is, there could be an economic crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u258	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u259	For Groningen, part of it now disappears from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u260	One part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u261	Yeah, part of the law disappears. That's inequality with the rest of the country. I don't think we should want that. What is the problem of not adding that back into the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u262	That wouldn't be housebroken either, because unlike all other gas fields, the extraction plan is not made by the mining company but by the government. As a mining company, which only has a mining obligation, which receives the figures from the government, you cannot be prosecuted for the same winning of the gas. There are other things that still do. That's about the way you do it, because you still have a duty of care there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u263	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u264	Sorry, just one more time. I'm really trying to get it straight. The Minister is about to impose a mining obligation. If the NAM can no longer be dealt with through the Economic Crimes Act, can we deal with the State through the Economic Crimes Act in the same way that we could now address the NAM through the Economic Crimes Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u265	At least that is not possible for a citizen, because he cannot do so now either. Could the D.A. sue the Empire? The answer to that question comes in the second term. But it makes sense that that's no longer possible with the NAM. We're taking that responsibility away. But Mrs Beckerman wants to know who can be held guilty for the level of extraction later. The operation of the extraction remains with the NAM. Mrs Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee raised a question on legal protection under the European Convention on Human Rights. Did I write that down correctly? No, I didn't write that down at all. That was just a question from Mrs Beckerman. I don't think anything has changed with this bill. The ECHR demands that there be an effective legal and administrative framework so that people can go to court if there is an infringement of their rights. And they can. For damage, that's the NAM, and then it'll be at the government counter. Then we have a number of questions about the SodM. Several speakers have asked why the supervision of the SodM is being restricted. The SodM sees no legal or formal restriction there. I don't see it either, but the SodM doesn't see it either. It is true that the SodM would like to expand that. It says: why shouldn't I watch for a rapid phasing-out of the Groninger gas, for example? But you don't have to. The NAM can already advise unsolicited. The NAM, sorry... Am I calling you the NAM? I'm trying to get the NAM out, the NAM just comes in! Unforgivable! The SodM can already advise unsolicited. And supervision is strange there, because supervision would mean monitoring whether the Minister is implementing his own decision. That's a weird kind of surveillance. If you're a supervisor, all you can do is monitor a decision that's been made. And the minister himself will take it. So this supervisor is the Chamber. He looks at the motivation and he looks at whether this is happening properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u266	I see that Mr Van der Lee still has an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u267	I think that the Chamber needs the advisory role or supervisory role of the SodM on this issue, so that it can play its supervisory role properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u268	I do not understand this remark. Surveillance to see if they...? You can only supervise a decision that lies ahead, but that decision is made by the Empire itself. So then you oversee whether the Empire is implementing its own decision. That's a wonderful form of supervision. I think that the independent position of the SodM should be to make a different point of view once in a while. "Whistleblower" is not the right term for an advisory body, but a party like the SodM should be able to say unsolicited: I think you can go faster. That's what it's doing now. That is the point I have come to, because Mrs Mulder and Mrs Sazias have asked questions about it. So the SodM comes up with advice and says: well, the minister can do a little harder; then he has to do this and this. This will allow me to discuss this with Mr Van der Lee and others later. That's where we need to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u269	You and I are really gonna do something new. We're gonna step down a little bit. We have a whole new model on which specific decisions have to be taken by the Minister, and they are then checked by the Chamber. I understand. But precisely because we are going to do something new, I think it makes sense that the SodM should be able to see what decision has been taken and what we can learn from it, in retrospect, and that this can be used by us as input to assess whether the next decision has improved; let me give you an example. During the SodM briefing I got the impression that they had the feeling that, without it being legally all equally crystal clear, their role was more restricted than they feel comfortable with. Then I'm starting to feel uncomfortable, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u270	Let me say, then, that the SodM can give its opinion at any time, even unsolicited. In fact, if a valued Member of Parliament is wondering something here in this Chamber, it may well be that the SodM will consider whether it should also advise on that basis. So there's nothing in the way. I can't control the SodM. We have an independent supervisor who is also credible and who will not feel hindered to advise. That's how I got to know the new Inspector General. Mrs Sazias and Mrs Mulder asked a number of questions about opinions that the SodM has also given today. They say that the SodM says: should we not take fiscal measures to get large consumers off the gas faster or to have it switched, or should there not be a ban on large consumers? Thanks for the policy advice, I'd say. But we are now with 53 large parties and later with a lot of smaller parties in the weather to bring about a switch. I have no reason to use coercive measures. There's a great deal of understanding. Not everyone likes it. These things can always be done. But first of all, I'd like to try a little Dutch poldling. There's a lot of goodwill. There are all kinds of constructive consultations and steps are being prepared. I just wanted to give it a try first. I don't want to hit you at a time when it really doesn't seem necessary. Mrs Mulder asks me to forward the reports directly to the supervisor. I think that's wise. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u271	Mrs Mulder, you have been given a promise, but you still want to ask about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u272	I had given the Minister two directions. The first is to do all the information that becomes available through the Ministry, but it would also be nice if the information could go directly from the NAM towards SodM. Is that another option for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u273	Whoever sends what to who... Does Mrs Mulder mean a legal anchoring? It's a bit of an unusual flow of pieces. I think it is best to do it within the traditional contexts, and I do so by saying that we will forward it immediately. We now come to the agreement on the main points. I would also like to talk about the financial aspects. Then I will go through the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u274	I see that there is an interruption by Mr Jetten first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u275	Before the Minister goes to the next block, just a moment on this point. I also asked some questions about the disruptive consequences of not supplying Groningen gas. I have asked, among other things, how long a company can rely on these disruptive consequences to ask for Gronings gas to continue to be delivered. Does the minister have any footage? I understand we didn't lay that down in the law, but I'm trying to imagine what that means in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u276	I would like to touch on the questions that I have not been able to deal with in any of the subjects, but I will answer them right now. I find it complicated to give a template. In an earlier debate on taxation, the question was raised as to what was a "shrinking case." What's "destructive"? That's... Here too, we come back to that one American high-ranking judge who was asked if he could give a definition of porn. After a long thought he finally came up with the famous pronunciation: I know it when I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u277	I suggest the Minister continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u278	Let's do that before any more accidents happen. I have already said that gas extraction is going to zero for safety reasons. Let's not tie it to anything. I will come back to Mr Wassenberg's questions on the link between the climate exercise and the Groningen gas exercise. Yeah, there's a certain coincidence there, but they're individually motivated. They also have their own rhythm. I must say that in there, the Groningen exercise is also a priority. There is a completely different time limit for one than for the other. Climate is important, but the safety of the Groningers is at the forefront of this. It calls for another gas building, and it has been very intensively negotiated. There have also been spokesmen among you who have said: what good is it, because all this has already been promised? I must remind them that we have also agreed in this Chamber that it was a pleasure to have certain assurances. Not long ago, for example, Mr Nijboer fanned the hypothesis that we would have to pay half of the gas left in the ground ourselves. Guarantees from the oil companies or the financial soundness of the NAM have not only played a number of roles in the media but also in this Chamber. I think we really needed to be certain about a number of things. The blessings of a new milestone are always short, but I think we have achieved a number of important things here. I think that this agreement is another step towards security for the Groningen people. They may have wondered: is there anyone else to pay for it later? And there is!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u279	Maybe I am a little early here, but the Minister just said something about the relationship between climate and gas extraction in Groningen. But he also said he'd come back on it even more extensively later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u280	I'll get back to you. I have classified this among the questions I put to each spokesperson because they do not fit in with a nice subject. In fact, Mr Wassenberg has raised his own subject, and I am going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u281	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u282	I don't know if he's gonna bounce home, but I'm sure I'll get back to you. In short, this agreement concludes a number of chapters, in the sense that we no longer have to ask ourselves whether the NAM remains financially sound. There has been a very detailed and thorough work on the underlying guarantees of the oil companies and I am very happy that that result has been achieved. That agreement came into force when it was signed on Monday. That was a question, I thought, from Mrs Mulder. No, I must also say to Mrs Beckerman, I can of course never force the House of Representatives to sign at the cross. She manages the cross and not me, because that is what parliamentary relations are like. If things are changed, this could be extremely damaging to this deal, but ultimately Parliament has the last word. I'll fight to the limit to keep things going that are good about that deal. I really support that, but I think Mrs Beckerman knows that she is voting on laws here and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u283	At the time, the Minister did not recommend my motion to make a parliamentary vote or a parliamentary reservation on this deal. The Minister now says: 'Parliament has the last word', which is good in a democracy. I now ask the Minister what is the time when Parliament gives its assent. That can't be this time, because we just got a letter on Monday. It is not a question of budgetary agreement. I'm asking him to be very precise. What elements does Parliament then give its assent to when?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u284	Well, Mrs Beckerman's question was not about the agreement on broad lines, but about the law that is consistent with the agreement on broad lines. That's what it was about. Contracts don't get in the mood here. It is true that Mr Nijboer has not only the budgetary law, but also in general the possibility of questioning and expressing views on this matter to the cabinet, but I admit that this is ex post control. It is extremely complex to conduct negotiations such as this in a kind of trilogue with the Chamber. That has not been shown before and it is not manageable either. This is an inevitable change, an inevitable change in existing cooperation, in line with the wishes that I have discussed with this Chamber and which I have expressed several times. I've discussed my commitment here several times. It is true that this may have budgetary implications. I will say something about this later, to the best of my knowledge at the moment. In such cases, there is nothing else to do but to have the House of Representatives pay me back. The final moment is when all the figures are there, Princess Day, but I will answer some financial questions as well as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u285	That is not exactly enough for me, because on Princess Day we get a number of figures. I think the Minister is really wrong when he says that we can close this deal and sometimes it is a done deal. We have had an analysis of 27 sides made by the support of the Chamber on exactly what is our constitutional position and what is the budget right of the Chamber. That's gonna be pretty accurate. I think it is true that if the House does not finally agree with the budget, the Minister should simply reverse this deal. Or does the Minister say it's an accomplished fact and you can send me away, you can always do that, but the deal is as it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u286	That's the uncomfortable thing about deals like this. They're legal and here's the ex-post check. That's the way it goes about things like this. Of course, we have had this a few times in the credit crisis and the banking crisis. That's uncomfortable, but it's the only way to do it and it's not unusual. I will share the inconvenience with Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u287	I do not know the latter, because the Minister has had every opportunity to inform the Chamber in advance. I myself happen to have experienced the nationalisation of a bank. At that time we knew very precisely, very precisely as a parliament, how things were going. We had sessions with De Nederlandsche Bank and have seen all contracts confidentially in advance. Then you had to give your approval afterwards, and that was a bank that was nationalized. If you knew anything about it, you'd drain that bank and all the savers would leave. This is incomparable to a business deal between two oil companies with a lot of public funds involved. That's really incomparable. The comparison with an appointment with a bank is totally out of place. I really think that you are walking very easily over the budgetary responsibility of the Chamber. That is a core function of the Chamber, including coalition parties. It's not about opposition or coalition. I think the cabinet is gonna get in trouble with this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u288	I have nothing to add. Again, the inconvenience is clear, but I do not see a chance to conduct this kind of big negotiations in a trialogue with the Chamber. I have had a chance, unlike in the past, to make the contracts public. That is a common wish. I also see an opportunity to discuss them in confidence with the MPs. That is an important wish, but it does not fully respond to Mr Nijboer's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u289	Mr Van der Lee on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u290	I have a few purely factual questions about the contract. We've got a contract on broad lines that doesn't include signatures. Is there a valid contract yet? A contract on the main lines suggests that there will be something after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u291	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u292	When's that? Is there a moment in between where the Chamber still plays a role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u293	It gets even more detailed. A comprehensive agreement must be drawn up in actual contracts. We're working on that right now. To be honest, I'm not very good at predicting how long it's going to last. Maybe in second term I can make a prediction of this. The situation is not very different from that of the agreement. That is a legal effect. It's getting even more technical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u294	A follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u295	Is it possible, in the view of the Minister, to conclude that follow-up contract after the Chamber around Prinsjesdag has had an insight into all the financial consequences of the agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u296	I think that's possible again. I'll say something about the contract as well. There are financial things to say about it. It seems to me that this is possible, but I'll check it out as well. That timing would come out pretty well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u297	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u298	I would like to combine the questions put by Mr Nijboer and Mr Van der Lee. I do not think Mr Nijboer's next question has just been answered. Is it true that it is only when the budget is adopted by this Chamber that the agreement is final?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u299	No, that was Mrs Mulder's question. When does it start? Last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u300	Okay, but I think that as a Chamber, we are now informed of an act which the government is allowed to do, namely to conclude a private law agreement with these parties. We are now informed as a Chamber. I believe that we in the Chamber still have the opportunity in the budget to reject this agreement on the broad lines. Only if we do not do so in the budget has the Chamber finally agreed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u301	I'm afraid that's not true. This is a legally binding contract. The Chamber could get mad at the government. I would like to say something about the adjustment of the parameters. We've agreed relationships for the distribution of the proceeds from gas extraction. For that we have a legal regime in the Netherlands. The Groningenveld was always an exception to that because the Groningenveld had a completely different proportion and a completely different production. Compared to production, there were relatively low costs. That's why there were huge returns. At the time, it was negotiated that the Netherlands deviated from the legislation for this one gas field, with the result that a much higher percentage of gas profits went to the government and relatively less to NAM and the oil companies. It's all connected. We have the heyday of the Groningenveld ample behind us. What we see is that the extraction goes down very quickly. The costs are going down less quickly. In fact, the cost of reinforcements is increasing. So the field doesn't look like the old Groningen field anymore in economic terms. What we see happening is that if we do nothing, it becomes an extremely strange situation. Then we have a mining obligation, because within the agreement on the main lines, the NAM had to accept a mining obligation. So she has no choice if she wins gas and how much. We would then find ourselves in a situation where the profit for the NAM is negative and thus also for the underlying shareholders, including the oil companies. This means that the State would get more than 100% of the profits and that on every cube gas that has to be won year after year the NAM only makes additional losses. It is difficult to expect a party to submit to a mining obligation, which leaves 100% of the gas it owns in the ground, but does not file a claim, and which provides guarantees for all damage and reinforcement, but in the meantime undertakes to make losses in the coming years. That is an unsustainable situation. You can't burden anyone with that. So we have said that as the Groningen field begins to look less and less like the Groningen field, we simply have to return to the legal regime. That is the regime that we consider reasonable for all other gas fields. Does that mean we're sticking the NAM? No, hardly. The NAM has achieved significant results over the past 12 to 15 years. That's definitely not what it's been for the last three years. So the profits on the Groningen field of NAM have gone down very significantly and are now threatening to become negative. There is no intention or intention to increase the profit level of NAM to the previous level. That is not the case at all. It is intended that it will be possible to continue for some hundreds of millions at the lower level of NAM, after which there will still be a division between the shareholders to continue roughly for some time and not to make a loss. We don't have to wait long if it goes down naturally and ultimately the profit from the Groningen field is zero. There's no intention of getting anything out of the NAM. It's all about not making it worse than that at that low profit level we're on. For you simply cannot expect someone to sign an agreement on the main lines in which he renounces his claim, provides a guarantee and accepts an obligation to extract, but as a result is going to make a loss. What does that mean, in the financial sense? I do not know exactly, because we all see that certain parameters are still missing. There's been a change in the distribution of revenues. It stands against the background of a changed volume, because we recorded it in the basic path. In addition, we have great uncertainty about the reinforcement operation. I've said before that everything that's needed will happen. But we don't know exactly what it takes yet. So both the base and the percentages are still changing. This multiplication of all different numbers makes it uncertain. So I thought it was a logical moment to multiply and present all this with the Millions Note. Several spokesmen rightly say: it's all nice that things are changing, but what about what you have now?That's probably not the real reinforcement as it becomes, because maybe the volume is going down even further. I can't say exactly, but I can say about that. The overall impact of the agreement is the difference with the situation in which the NAM would be loss-making. In the basic path you actually take the situation that in fact the NAM is going to subsidise the State. You take that as one situation and compare it with the situation in which the NAM is just above zero. I do believe, however, that the basic path is a completely unrealistic basic path and that it is inevitable to do something about it. But in the limited number of years to come, this roughly amounts to what we call a'vertical' difference in budgetary terms from 450 to about 250 million and further to 0. That's the vertical difference. That doesn't mean that that's the profit that NAM makes, because it's compared to a negative number. So, it's raising a number below zero to a number just above zero. That's roughly the order of magnitude. But it remains that in the foreseeable future, of course, we will have the prospect of an ever-decreasing level of profit from the Groningen field at all. So that's the vertical difference. For NAM, the objective is to keep the horizontal effect about the same. So horizontally, NAM is not going to do any less than it is now, but it's not going to do any more. Vertical means the amounts in that order of magnitude. Again, the final point where I can put it all together is Princess Day. I'd like to put the numbers as I have them now, with all the assumptions that are there... that's all pretty crude... in a letter too. I think it's an orderly question, too. I have nothing against it. It's kind of like this, but I can write down what is and what isn't in it, and then we have this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u302	I'd like to know what's going on with the Secretary of State. The state is now going to pay more for damages and reinforcements. Is that right? And is it then considered when the agreement has entered into force, so how much damage comes in from that date on, or is it also considered when the damage is to occur or occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u303	Or reported. Yeah, good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u304	And the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u305	And the answer comes in the second term. I think it's a very good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u306	The Minister has just made a very important commitment, namely that he can explain in a letter a little more detail what the financial consequences are. When could that letter come to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u307	Well, I absolutely wanted to send them for the votes I wanted. Sure, that's what we're doing. I can't force anyone here, but I can only seduce them. I can't always do it, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u308	I also see Mr Van der Lee on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u309	Very well, the promise about that letter. Perhaps the Minister came to it, but I had also asked a question about the full picture of all the costs, partly resulting from this agreement but also from all the consequences of gas extraction so far, the costs that will be incurred or are expected to be incurred in the future. I do not need this for Tuesday's votes, but it seems very relevant and important to me to have an overview of the Prince's Day papers in which an integral picture is presented in all areas where a contribution from the State or from the NAM or from the parties to the NAM will be required in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u310	Yeah, I see that importance. That letter's gonna be at the Prince's Daypieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u311	Okay. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u312	Ghosts aren't gonna do us any good. There's also, but that's really not meant to create some gloom around 500 million. Some spokesmen have reported that there would have been bossy and tough saying: we are paying 500 million. I'm not "we," but I didn't catch the oil companies making that statement either. It's like it's always been. There's not much mysticism about this. I may have recognized too little mysticism in it or I didn't recognize that this could be mystical. As always, the NAM is the party that pays, in this case things that do not have to do with liability but in other cases things that do have to do with liability. Of course, the oils have a share in that and the State has a share in that. That's a fact. This applies, of course, to both the proceeds, those shares and the costs. It's very simple. There's revenue. That's where you take the costs off. In this case, the costs are 500 million, because they are put into the Regional Fund, the Groningen Future Fund, I believe. This reduces profits and thus reduces profits for all shareholders. In fact, therefore, it is true that it indirectly provides a larger share by the State, but the ruling that the NAM pays 500 million is true. I do not want to say that the oil companies pay 500 million. That's not true, because here's what's always been applied, since 1963. I didn't mean much mysticism in this. The ruling "NAM pays 500 million" is true. No, it's not true that it ends up with oil companies, because the State is also a participant. That's the way it is. I didn't mean anything here with shadowiness. I thought this had little shadowiness, but it did, in the end, stir things up in some people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u313	And Mr Nijboer would like some clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u314	The whole parliament, journalists who find out after two days, every neutral viewer to the press conference with Shell and Exxon hears "we give half a billion to Groningen." Does the Minister find it very strange that we think they are making half a billion dollars available for Groningen and not 135 million? Is it really crazy to assume that? If it is so obvious that it had to be 135, why didn't the Minister say so directly on the spot?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u315	I did not observe that oil companies would have said 'we pay the oil companies 500'. I didn't notice that. I said, and I also mentioned in the letters that the NAM is paying. We have talked about the NAM in this Chamber quite often. In fact, my predecessor has very often referred to the NAM as the payer, knowing that NAM is still a company with several shareholders, including the State, and also knowing that the Chamber knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u316	A follow-up question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u317	But we're sitting here in parliament, we're not playing Cluedo to figure out what's going on in the end. There is an agreement with Shell and Exxon, as well as Shell and Exxon. The directors of Shell and Exxon are standing there, and they're a bit of a thrasher: we're behind the Groningers. That's what you need to get to Groningen! But that's how they were standing there. There was no one in the NAM. It wasn't there at all. Then say lyrically and legally it'll all be true again, because that's what those show lawyers have figured out that half a billion of the NAM is, while ultimately it amounts to 135 million, isn't it just fooling around? Surely the Minister shouldn't be part of that? It must be transparent and clear in Parliament and tell us what is going on right now. It should not be the case that two days later, because Mr Van der Lee asked for clarification, we get a half note in which a little bit half-recognized... That's no way to do it, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u318	It's nothing to do with half or whole recognition. It's the way it is. The NAM pays for that. We all know, and Mr Nijboer really does know in the context of damage, we have talked about this in debates about how it does not all go to the oil companies. Now I know that in saying "NAM contributes" I should have said better what that means for the State. I've never done that before, either with the damage. But I'll take better care of it. I have no perception that oil companies have been standing there claiming things that were factually incorrect or that I have experienced as misleading or insufficient. I might have said something about it. This is what it is. In my transmission of messages there is no shadowy intention. It's no use to me either. This is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u319	However, I would like to continue with a commitment made by the Minister, namely that we are making an agreement on this, precisely because the distribution of profits and costs is going to be a different percentage than we were used to. Could we agree that this is always explicitly mentioned in the future? Because it is understood quite easily that Shell and Exxon are the NAM and they want to forget that the state is very big in that. In this way, we can proactively avoid this kind of misunderstanding in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u320	Let me do my best to do that. But we often say this is for the costs of the NAM. I have said it ten times in this debate and I am still behind the Chamber, which has said it more often. It's complicated to say over and over again: that means... I'm going to do my best, but we're also dealing with speech usage where this is complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u321	Shortly, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u322	I understand that very well. I am not talking about oral moments; I am talking about contracts and letters to the Chamber that become public and which many people are waiting for because they are big interests and big money. This must be written down very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u323	Because I have promised financial letters, there are two: one for the Millions note and one for the votes shortly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yeah, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u324	Have you come far with the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u325	I'm gonna see if I've answered all the questions. Mr Kops asked what would happen if the NAM did not carry out its task. There's a mining obligation. You have both criminal law and administrative law through the SodM to keep the NAM to its mining obligation. Mr Kops also asks how to prevent the NAM from saying that it is not responsible itself. Well, the liability for damage simply persists and is enforceable. If you don't stick to the operational plan, criminal law is gonna threaten you. I don't think there can be any clarity about that, but I just promised a letter about it. If there is such a lack of clarity, then it will soon be removed. Mr Jetten has asked whether I am also willing to support local initiatives, but I do not understand his question very well. He needs to help me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u326	That was a trick-or-treater. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u327	Well, no, I'm trying to answer the question right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u328	In my opinion, Mrs Dik-Faber has mentioned very good examples of existing initiatives to support Groningers. As far as I am concerned, these were the same initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u329	Okay, yeah. Mr Van der Lee asked another question about the exit plan. That is a European rule. It's in development now, with GTS, by the way. I think I can inform the Chamber about that in the fourth quarter. Mr Van der Lee then said that the protocol on measurement and control would be abolished. No, not in substance. Parts of it are reflected in the Mining Regulation. That's a ministerial arrangement. That brings these issues back to me. One of Mr Nijboer's points was that the Minister had allowed himself more freedoms than before. I don't really see it that way. There used to be a mining plan from a mining company that had to be approved, but now there's a fairly compelling path down. There isn't much choice, actually. There's a SodM recommendation. There's a mining advice. GTS makes an opinion on this. The same applies to local authorities. The mission is as fast as possible to zero. So let me put it this way: at least this minister does not experience these freedoms. I recognize that battle, but I do not see it as a great freedom. I don't want that one either. I'd like to go to zero, and I'd be happy to. Mr Nijboer also asked about coherence with reinforcement. There's gonna be a separate bill to put that off. The direct coherence here is not great. Mrs Dik-Faber asks about validating the model of NAM. TNO has rebuilt the models of NAM. That should be ready in a few months. The hazard-and-risk model is by the way an internationally reviewed model, which has been looked at by many specialists. TNO is in the tail of this work. The question about the pastorate and the help. I believe that this is indeed the time to do so, but I have to see how I can take that up. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u330	I see an interruption by Mrs Mulder first. That gives the Minister some time to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u331	Perhaps this is also the time when the Minister could indicate why he might or might not be able to make the maximum amount of extraction possible under Article 36 (3) Mining Act for this gas year. Did the Minister consider that? This amount can go down. If that were possible, has the Minister considered it before the current gas year? Or, if not, will he still consider it? Of course, there are only a few months left, but with everything we can win less I would be very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u332	There have already been changes, but I will see if I can motivate that it has been used to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u333	I'd like to hear back in the Minister's letter that he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u334	Yeah, sure. It's also on the list for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u335	Great. That is important, because there was sufficient reason to do so after the earthquake in Zeerijp at the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u336	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u337	Are you gonna finish the answer on the pastoral aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u338	That question was about mental care. I was inclined to think that Mrs Dik-Faber was even going to table a motion on it. Maybe I can come back to the motions, if that's okay with her. Yes. Mr Wassenberg has quite extensively introduced two of the gas-drop movements. One is climate and the other is Groningen. I have to tell him that the heartbeat of these movements is really different. One has the horizon 2050 with an intermediate station in 2030. In fact, I am already looking at the second half of 2022 and I even hope for the second half of 2020. That's a whole different pattern. They are also not related in substance, in terms of reasons. The idea that I read sometimes, which is popular with columnists, that we would stop the Groningenveld because this is so good for climate, is nonsense. It's even different. Mr Wassenberg will even look at me unfriendly. The Netherlands has not stopped producing gas at all. We will continue to extract gas as far as we are still a gas user, except where that is no longer safe. That's what the Groningen Field is all about. Objectively and factually, that's one of those areas where that can't be safe anymore. There are other areas, but this applies only where it can be safe and only where and for as long as we are still gas users. Then I'll get to the second move. Yes, of course we are all going away from gas in the context of sustainability. The whole built environment should be off the gas by 2050, but that's really a different operation. Yes, there is coincidence, so the order of thought is always "can you sustainably" to look at possibilities to do that differently. Those examples are also available. They'll be coming out here and there soon. I also know examples of parties saying: we want to get rid of low-caloric gas and we have a sustainable plan. Sometimes this means going completely off the gas, but it can also lead to less use, for example. Those are all things that are at the top of the cascade. At the top, you'll see if we can get rid of it all the way. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u339	I agree with the Minister that the phasing-out of the Groninger gas extraction must be carried out very quickly. That there are different tempos, I get it. I'm just afraid we're creating a lock-in now. The Minister didn't go into that. At the moment when we are going to make all kinds of arrangements to convert high-caloric gas into low-caloric gas, pseudo-G gas, you have a chance of getting back on that for the next few decades. The minister said we're about to see two years; 2030 and 2050. What the Party is afraid of is that we are going to create a lock-in. That is why I call for a double strike to be made immediately and, wherever possible, to get rid of the gas and to find sustainable alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u340	The latter: yes, that's the goal, but that doesn't happen everywhere. I also think there are very well-known examples of lock-in. If you're building a coal power plant, you've created a lock-in, but laying another pipeline isn't that bad, so I'm less afraid of a lock-in than Mr. Wassenberg. I share with him that you start with the question of whether it can be completely or partly sustainable and that only after that gas alternatives come into the picture. That's how the conversation goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u341	The development of a nitrogen factory is of course also a big deal of a lock-in, because you are going to invest half a billion dollars in converting high-caloric to low-caloric gas. That's also something you're probably stuck with for maybe 20, 30 years. A lock-in is more than just coal power plants. This is also a lock-in, because it's actually a shame not to use that investment until the end. Can the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u342	This is what I'm fighting. With Mr Wassenberg, the belief is somewhat greater than with the cabinet that if you take away the offer, you are also automatically out of demand. That belief is a little less in the cabinet. We'll share that we need to get rid of the gas. We see that gas is still needed for some time and that is what the nitrogen plant is for, but there is no consideration of using or rendering the nitrogen plant for as long as possible. That's different at a coal plant. He owns private property. You want to use it as long as you can. One of these things can last forever. There are very old coal plants in the world; it scares you. Obviously that's not the point here, so I'm a little less afraid of that lock-in and I'm sharing his order. He goes on to say that there are some worried noises about the industrial table and he calls it dawdling. I think I just met the people at that table a little more often than Mr Wassenberg and I am a little less worried. On the other hand, we can all imagine that also those who wholeheartedly support climate ambition must ensure that their business still exists in the new model and not just lose the competition. That there are concerns about the playing field is quite normal, but I am a little more optimistic than Mr Wassenberg and I do not notice any of that dawdling. There's a lot of work going on. There's an extraordinary chairman who's gonna pull that off. I think something's coming out of that. Yeah, I think so. Let's see, did I have everything? I think this is it. Then we come to the amendments. I just wanted to do it in the first term. The amendment in part No. 7 on priority. We have discussed this very extensively. I'm not going into that. Unfortunately, as regards the way in which that has been incorporated into this amendment, I have to say that it is really unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u343	A point of order from Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u344	There are a lot of amendments, so it would be nice if the Minister could mention the number of the amendment when he gives the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u345	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u346	Is Number 8 still there? The amendments to documents Nos. 7 and 8 are both about the concept of priority. Both I have to give the title "unacceptable," which I don't like to do. Then we have the amendment to item No. 10. This means that the NAM should no longer make proposals for the operational strategy. That's problematic. Last Tuesday, even the ig, Mr Kockelkoren, indicated in the technical briefing that they were using these figures correctly. Those are just business operational data that you need to be able to make a valuation. This is also the case when a mining decision is adopted. You just need numbers for the business and you need such a proposal. I do not see how I can adopt this operational strategy without such a proposal and without the historical knowledge of the field. That's my new job now, but I do need the current experts. This is therefore an unacceptable amendment for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u347	We are talking about the amendment to item No. 10. That has been changed to No. 23. No? Oh, I'm sorry, it's now printed on piece number. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u348	Okay. That was the amendment to No. 10, and that's what I have to advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u349	Sorry, it's been cleared up: it was no. 10, but it's now no. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u350	Oh, it's no. 23. I can see that I am referring to the amendment to item No. 23 have. We now call it the Amendment No. 23. That's right. The advice remains the same: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u351	And the opinion on the amendment to item No. 23 is: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u352	Then there is the amendment to item No. 11. This is about changing 'the ability to draw up a scheme' to 'the need to draw up a scheme'. We discussed this in the debate. I don't think that's weird. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u353	I'm sorry, Mr. Van der Lee, you're asking my attention, but we're still watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u354	That is now the amendment to item No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u355	It is indeed printed on piece No. 27. It was the amendment in part No. 11 and it is now the amendment to item No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u356	Boy! Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u357	And the Minister's answer to that is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u358	The answer is, judge Chamber. Even if it's no. 27 is. The amendment in part No. 26 replaces the amendment in part No. 22, I see. Well, I'm fine. I shall now turn to the amendment to item No. 12 on the temporary measure. We've talked about that extensively. I have explained the workings of Article 50 and I must advise against this amendment. I would like to make it quite clear that the intention of the creator can still be realised. Let me now turn to the amendment to item No. 19. Is that right? Oops, my notes on the amendment to item No. I've lost 19. I'm thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u359	Could you give us a clearer indication of what this is about? Because I think that the amendment was in part No. 19 not...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u360	No. 19 doesn't exist anymore? Mrs Beckerman does not agree with that at all. I'm just waiting for some advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u361	Oh, yeah. The amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u362	Perhaps there are some of my notes on the amendment to item No. 19 is still a copy somewhere. You will. Then there is the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u363	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Sazias to put a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u364	There's absolutely no way to keep up with this. I've completely lost my touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u365	But I'll mention the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u366	Yes: 19, 21 is 26. Perhaps it is an idea to send this to us in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u367	Well... No song remains the same, so it is indeed complicated for both of us. Let me see if that's wise. The amendment to No. 12 by Mrs Beckerman... No, from Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u368	Mrs Sazias, we will just try to calm down on the following amendments. That's what we're gonna do. I see that Mr Nijboer does not want to interrupt. Then I'll continue with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u369	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u370	To be very clear: what is the number and what is your verdict on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u371	The amendment in part No. 12 concerns the temporary measure and the amendment to item No. 19 is about the temporary measure. For the reasons I explained in the debate, I would advise against both.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u372	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u373	Against the amendment in part No. 13 I don't mind, but I don't like it very much, so I'd like to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u374	The amendment in part No. 13 has also been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u375	The amendment in part No. 15 replaces the amendment in part No. 9. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u376	That's right. The amendment in part No. 15 replaces the amendment in part No. 9. And the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u377	We also discussed this in the debate. I really shouldn't recommend this, because here a duty of care is being re-introduced for something in which the NAM cannot have a duty of care. So I would advise against the amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u378	The amendment in part No. 15 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u379	Yes. Then there is the amendment to item No. 16. This concerns the expiry of the special advisory role of the SodM on the operational strategy. I'm gonna have to advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u380	The amendment in part No. 16 has also been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u381	I always like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, but that's not always possible. Then we have the Beckerman/Wassenberg amendment in part No. 20, on laying down the objectives of extraction in the law. No, the policy is to zero, but we don't need a legal purpose for that. The amendment in part No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u382	Just a minute! We're still here looking. You are talking about the amendment to item No. 20?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u383	Yes, the Beckerman/Wassenberg amendment to part No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u384	That has now been changed to the amendment on item No. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u385	How is Mrs. Sazias supposed to get out of there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u386	This is kind of tricky, so that's why we should just do it carefully. It says with me that the amendment to item No. 22 has been amended to Amendment No 22 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 26. You were just talking about the amendment to item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u387	I am referring here to the amendment to item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u388	The amendment in part No. 20 is the amendment to item No. 22, I'm told. After that, the amendment to item No. 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No 22 - Amendment No Let's just see what the amendment is about. It is an amendment by Mrs Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u389	...laying down targets in the law. The amendment in part No. 20 is the amendment to item No. 22, you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u390	Yes, it is. And that is now the amendment to item No. 26. What is the Minister's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u391	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u392	Dissuade. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u393	Then I have to say that I am afraid to say that the amendment to item No. 21. Is that still there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u394	That is certainly a replacement for the amendment in respect of item No. 17. But before we get there, I will give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u395	People have to laugh around here, but we're working on a serious law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u396	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u397	This is for people at home, and for us, to be honest, just not to follow anymore. The Minister has already promised three or four letters. However, I would like to ask for a letter to deal with the amendments, because we are going to vote in favour or against. It's Tuesday, when I hear it like that. That's got to be a little decent. Parliament's legislative procedure is our highest good. It's just no way to judge it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u398	Well, there's nothing wrong with the assessment. We're having trouble with the numbers and we all understand why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u399	I have a problem with how the debate is going. I thought the law was ill-argued. The Minister gives a very limited answer and all admits letters. We come up with amendments and it is said for a moment: I do not feel that much for this. It is for or against without any further argument, there is reference to the debate and all the numbers are wrong. So I'm having trouble with this. In the meantime, the Minister is doing quite frivolous, but everything we say here is part of the history of law. In the long run, it'll be enough. I just don't think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u400	Mr. Nijboer. On a number of issues relating to your amendments, you can come back in the second term. Then there can be another answer from the Minister on these matters. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u401	I would like to support Mr Nijboer. I've been working really hard on this. I have tabled five amendments. I thought this was a really bad law. I have really put a lot of work into making improvements to that. Five amendments, in which a great deal of work has been put into it by staff and by the Bureau of Legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u402	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u403	That's a lot for one law. And I'm barely getting an answer. I have not received an answer to many of my questions. To many questions I get the answer: come back in second term. This is going to be an extremely messy debate. That's what I warned you about this afternoon. This is going to be extremely messy and extremely late, and we have no idea what we're going home with in this way. I wonder why we're gonna finish this this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u404	I sympathise with you, but I think it would be best if, in the second period, we also deal with the amendments which have received negative pre-opinions and in the second period, the Minister would again address your questions or comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u405	I don't know if that's how it works, but can I make an order proposal? I have a bit of a problem with the fact that we are now pretending that it is the Minister's fault that the songs go wrong and that everyone has a different version in front of them. I find that disturbing. Maybe we could suspend for a while so everyone has the right numbers in front of them. Then we all know what's happening and we can follow it in order. This really is not the Minister's fault, and I really have difficulty suggesting it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u406	May I first ask how many judgments the Minister has yet to give? Because another member has asked for a short suspension anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u407	I've got no. 21 on the tasks of GTS. Then I have no. 26 about goals in the law, but I've already given a judgment on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u408	Yeah, that's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u409	I have the amended amendment to No. 23, that first no. 10 on the operational strategy. That's my no. 10 already dealt with. Then I still have no. 24 on the Wadden Sea and No. 25 on the justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u410	Okay, so that makes three more. I suggest that you assess it before we have a short break before the second term. But before that happens, I shall first give Mrs Sazias the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u411	What is the problem of having a list of the numbers and the advice behind them made during the break?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u412	I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u413	That's fine. That's what we're gonna do. We are going to ensure that there is a pre-opinion from the Minister on these three amendments first. Then we have a short suspension, from five to a maximum of ten minutes. A short list is made. Then we'll continue with the second term. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u414	I have the amended amendment to item No. 21 by Mr Van der Lee, on the tasks of GTS. It states: let GTS carry out its legal tasks in such a way that this contributes optimally to minimising the extraction. We also discussed this in the debate. I am not trying to get rid of it, but I am referring to the debate. That's already a job of GTS. The amendment adds nothing and is therefore superfluous. I wouldn't recommend it, but I'll sneak in and say it doesn't hurt very much either. I'm trying to give you a full appreciation. The judgment is "dissuade," because it adds nothing. We discussed it in the debate. The amendment in part No. I've already had 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u415	One moment, Minister, because I see an interruption by Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u416	So, if it doesn't matter, it may seem superfluous, but it gives the whole Chamber comfort. The Minister might consider leaving this motion to the House's judgment in the second term, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u417	I'm sure the Chamber is her own judgment anyway, right? This is not necessary from a legal point of view. I've been so honest with you about that. The amendment in part No. So we've had 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u418	Yes, we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u419	The amendment in part No. We've had 23. I have explained why that is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u420	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u421	Then there is the amendment to item No. 24. This has indeed not been the case in the debate. We established the regime for the Wadden Sea a year ago, I say to Mr Van der Lee. We have established that the structural vision of the Wadden Sea is subject to strict conditions. We've got our hands on the crane in the Wadden Sea. Moreover, the cabinet has also decided that no new country search permits will be issued for the Wadden Sea, but also for the Wadden Sea. The ban on new extraction permits and new extraction plans or the extension of extraction plans affects the rights of existing licence holders. That is why I must advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u422	I see Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u423	It's about new plans. Our concern is of course that there will be some extra pressure on the small fields, just because we want to get rid of Slochteren quickly. That is why it seemed good to us to protect the Wadden Sea further at this point. I don't quite understand why this is violating old rights. After all, it is a matter of new plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u424	This subject was discussed in detail a year ago. I have also said several times in the Chamber that we are not going to do more with small fields as a result of the extraction in Groningen. That's not the point. It's not a waterbed effect. Mr Van der Lee does not have to be afraid of that. But we've talked about that before. And we just re-recorded it, so I'm not willing to change that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u425	Finally, we still have the amendment to item No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u426	The amendment in part No. 25 is about the motivation. That is about motivating how this priority, which is of major importance, has been given to the safety of Groningers. That is also what we discussed in the debate. I'll leave that to the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u427	Mr Van der Lee, one last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u428	Sorry, Mr President, to keep going, but I do have a question about this, also in relation to the amendment to item No. 7 that I filed, and that's not recommended. What I find complicated about this amendment is that the focus here is on safety for the Groningers. I understand that very well. At the same time, the law also contains a definition of safety for other Dutch people who are affected by their safety if there is no gas. And I understand the problem very well that it is very complicated to consider it. It's both about safety. That is precisely why my amendment provides for this common security, the security interest, to take precedence over the rest of the security of supply. When I see this amendment and the Minister gives the Chamber judgment, I do not quite understand how he will succeed. Does this mean that he will only look at how the safety of the Groningers relates to that part of the security of supply that does not entail any security risks? How am I supposed to read this? Why is this preferable to the proposal I made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u429	They are very different proposals. One writes in a 1-0-like way how to make the balance. This leaves the balance as we have agreed on, but it concerns its justification. That is a very different point. The Council of State attaches particular importance to what it calls'security for residents'. That's one part of the security concept. He has a priority, a preference. That is something that needs to be justified here, through this amendment. It is precisely the fact that Mr Van der Lee says that it seems to be a rather complex consideration that has probably created the feeling among the authors of the amendment that there is a justification in place, which must be enshrined in the law. And I get that. I'm not saying they're simple considerations. But the justification can only lead us to at least have a substantive debate on this. So I will leave the amendment to the discretion of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I now have the amendment to part No. 26? Yes. And the amendment to item No. Do I have 19 around here, too? Did I do this right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u430	I think we've written everything down now. There's heavy typing. You'll be getting the list as we have it in no time. If that is any different from what the Minister had in his head, then we will soon be hearing it. I believe that this is the way we came at the end of the first term. We're about to proceed with the second term, starting with that of the Chamber. But before we do, we're gonna suspend until 11:00. You will be given the list of the various amendments within a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u431	We are about to start with the second deadline, but before we do that, I shall first give the floor to the Minister, because two amendments have received a different assessment. It would be useful if he could explain that, prior to the second term of office of Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u432	Mr. Chairman. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 7 by Mr Van der Lee and Amendment No 7 by Mr Van der Lee, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u433	That's clear. I do not know if Members are very happy about this, but it is clear. Everyone else has been given a list of the reviews. I suggest that we start the second term now. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u434	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You may be surprised, but I received a message from a preacher during the debate. He said: "Security also needs trust to get meaning. And, "We really need to give people hope." They're impressive statements, though. Normally, I'm not much of a believer, but this is, of course, the essence. Groninger's gotta have faith, too. I don't see that. I see a messy treatment of a law. Many of the questions I have asked are not answered. There is little discussion of amendments. That while all the points I've tried to make aren't points we've come up with. It's points that came back a lot. Whether it was the Council of State, which was quite critical and very sharp. Whether it was the SodM, which gave us five more points of interest on Tuesday. Whether it was the many Groningen people from a municipality or the province or in another organized context who gave us advice. In fact, I see very little happening with the suggestions I have made. I thought we had reasonably tried to improve this law. However, I wanted to pass on my own amendments and their consideration in the debate. I have the amendment to item No. 8 which says that in the balancing of interests which the Minister is going to make, the safety importance must outweigh the interests associated with not being able to supply final customers with the necessary amount of low-caloric gas. The Minister first said that that amendment is unacceptable. In the meantime, he has watered it down to "dissuade." I really hope that he can continue at this rate and accept the amendment, because this is, of course, a big point. The Council of State has twice said to the Minister: that security must be paramount. The Council of State has also repeated this in public. We had a whole debate on this. The Minister was going to explain all sorts of priority situations. It seemed as if we were on the same page, but he gave such a firm judgment, while the amendment simply says: we have long set economic interests, we have put security of supply above security for so long; will we, please, make it clear in the law that the safety importance outweighs interests associated with not being able to provide final customers? That's a very simple question. It's a broad-based request. I would ask the Minister to look at this one more time, especially since, in his reply, he really indicated that the importance of security must be taken more seriously. So I do not see in any way what is wrong with that amendment, but I would like to hear a more detailed explanation. And, of course, I would like the Minister to accept the amendment. Then there is the duty of care and the economic crime. Everyone understands that it's gonna be different if you impose that mining obligation on NAM. But what's it gonna be? Who's gonna be a criminal? I don't need to hear a technical explanation of who does, but we know that there is now a major criminal case against the NAM. That is now the responsible gas winner. Soon the state will be the one giving the orders. Will you then, Minister, like the NAM now be punishable on the basis of the Law on Economic Crimes? You said: I will return to that in second place because I do not know. I would really like to get an answer to that because I think this also offers certainty to the Groningers. We had made a point about the intervention by the SodM during the gas year. And that point too is very unclear. The SodM is not the least party. They wouldn't have said that again on Tuesday with such emphasis if they didn't really mean it. The amendment simply calls for the SodM, as happened after Zeerijp, to be given that opportunity and to be well anchored in the law so that it is clear to everyone. I do not have enough time for all my amendment, and that is why I am merely saying something about my Beckerman/Wassenberg amendment to item No. 26. We've been talking all night about minimising gas extraction. That's what we're gonna do! That is now finally regulated by the law! But it's not in the law. You yourself said in your letter to the Chamber that in October 2022 or possibly a year earlier it will go to twelve and by 2030 to zero. A very simple question: what would be against including that in the law so that Groningers can also trust that it will be okay? Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of things left open. You have promised, Minister, that you will return to three questions from me in the second term. You have promised three or four letters, but I believe that we are far from finished with this debate. But I'm going to read my motions now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the imposition of measures to prevent damage has been weakened to try to limit injury;]] [[noting that the responsibility for taking preventive measures to prevent damage between the NAM and the State seems to be floating;]] [[considers that it would be undesirable for this to continue to be unclear and therefore uncertain;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the taking of preventive measures to prevent damage by both NAM and the State and thus to remove existing uncertainty as to who is liable for reinforcement on what grounds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Sazias and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u435	Okay, but I do have a few more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NAM is subject to a mining obligation and that this has created uncertainty as to liability for future damage;]] [[noting that the State appears to have the intention of not allowing the NAM itself to be liable for future damages;]] [[considers that there should be absolutely no ambiguity as to who should be held responsible for what;]] [[calls on the Government to state clearly when the NAM will be liable for damages in the future and when the State, and not to leave any doubt as to the financial responsibility for these damages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no enforceable phasing-out plan to get gas extraction to zero as soon as possible;]] [[noting that gas will still be extracted for demand;]] [[Whereas targets in previous letters and explanations are not legally enforceable;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a timetable towards zero gas extraction in accordance with the letter dated 29 March last year to the House of Representatives and to report on this on a six-monthly basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the current measurement and control protocol and the broad supervisory role of the SodM will be repealed with the present legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas the SodM itself also indicates that it needs more tools for monitoring and enforcement in order to avoid damage;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the SodM not only supervises safety, but also the prevention of damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the loss of gas extraction from the Groningen field is likely to be captured by the use of the small fields;]] [[noting that it is made economically more attractive to extract gas from fields under the North Sea and the Wadden Sea;]] [[Whereas this is not a sustainable solution;]] [[calls on the government also to draw up a phasing-out plan for the small gas fields on land and the gas fields under the North Sea and the Wadden Sea area, which works towards zero gas extraction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Sazias and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-30]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-31]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u436	Mr. Chairman. I really hope that in the second period there will really be an answer and a good response to our amendments. We are very much thinking of a third deadline, especially when there are so many letters to be sent. If that is necessary, we will make a proposal to that effect in the course of next Tuesday's proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u437	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister, although, for what, I would almost say. It was a messy treatment and that is a symbol of a rather messy law. All the people who are looking at this debate like that... Is this encouraging the confidence these people should have in politics and in the minister? I don't think so, actually. I have not heard the Minister say so many times before in his reply: I will return to it in the second term. I haven't heard the Minister promise so many different letters before. Apparently, he really wants to convince us, but he really wants to, of this bill, so that it can be voted on Tuesday. He wants to speed up. The bill needs to be rushed through, it needs to be rushed to the First Chamber. But what if the letters he has promised are not sufficient for this Chamber? What's that? What's he gonna do? Is he prepared to come up with a letter of amendment or something? And if not, what is the point of these letters? Mr. Chairman. In practice, this bill simply does not provide any certainty as to how much gas extraction will go down in the years to come, with what numbers. It's not in the law. No one knows. There's no guarantee that the Groningen's safety is more than anything. That's too bad. The only certainty given by the Minister in his reply is that millions are going to Shell and Exxon again. They're not paying 500 million, they're paying 135 million. That's how much it turned out. And that's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate has concluded a gas deal with Shell and Exxon;]] [[noting that the result is that the NAM will no longer receive 10% but 27% of its natural gas revenues;]] [[Whereas Shell and Exxon have promised as it should! In order to ensure the financial robustness of the NAM, it is necessary to ensure that the NAM remains financially robust;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from increasing the share of natural gas income to be received by NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u439	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u440	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u441	Thank you, Mr President. "Security needs trust to offer hope." Those are the words that Mrs Beckerman just said, which she received during this debate from a minister from Groningen. Actually, I thought that was a very nice sentence. In my view, that is the task we all have, that is all the small steps we are taking towards a situation in which we are doing justice to Groningen. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the first-term response. We went into this debate with a lot of questions. That was true for all groups. I think it is a good thing that we have opened this debate today, because the Minister has been able to clarify many things. Not on all counts. We will receive letters, we will receive further answers in the second period, but on many points the Minister was much clearer as far as I am concerned than in the explanatory memorandum to this law. Mr. Chairman. This amendment to the Gas Act and the Mining Act is about ensuring that if gas demand falls in the Netherlands, the gas extraction in Groningen actually goes down. My group expressed concerns in the first term as to whether safety for the Groningen people is really in one state in the way in which this legislative amendment has been written down. In the first term, the Minister spoke very clearly about priority for the safety of Groningers, which is a major priority for the safety of Groningers. That reassures my group that the intentions of this law are good. I also think it is important to support the reply of the Minister of the Interior with an address to the House. That's why there's a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister makes an integral balance between the security importance for residents and the security of supply;]] [[Whereas these interests are of a different nature and therefore do not have an equal weighting factor;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the security interests of residents in Groningen in the comprehensive consideration of the various security interests for the purposes of the operational strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u442	Mr. Chairman. I am going to try to raise a number of points at a rapid rate. I am pleased that the Minister has made it clear that this legislative amendment will also allow temporary measures to be taken during the gas year, which will be possible to intervene in gas extraction if the seismic activity gives rise to this. I am also pleased that the Minister has given a ruling on an amendment which aims to ensure that the administrative balance that the Minister has to make between the various security interests is a follow-up consideration and that we, as a Chamber, are also able to monitor them and discuss them with the Minister. In my view, the Minister has been able to reassure the Chamber that the obligation of care if there is an economic offence remains possible with this change of law, with reference to articles of law that are not amended by this change of law. I am also pleased that the Minister has agreed to provide insight into the costs of the new agreements with Shell and Exxon in two letters, both next week and at Prinsjesdag, and their impact on the budget and on our treasury. Finally, I welcome the view expressed by the Minister on the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Lee on the provision of permits, so that we can also properly adapt the Measurement and Rule Protocol. Finally. I have asked questions in my speech and in one interruption about the term 'destructive' and I have asked how to weigh now when there are disruptive consequences if you can no longer supply companies or other institutions with Groningen gas. I understand the Minister can't quantify that very precisely. He said "I know it when I see it," to say it in good Dutch in this debate. This is where I think we'll be if we've made this legislative change over the next few years. Because I didn't come up with the term "destructive." It is a term that the Minister has used several times in the law and in the explanatory memorandum to the law itself. That is why I would like to stress once again the importance of the follow-up to this administrative balance that the Minister must make, because we as a Chamber are going to be inclined to check whether there are disruptive effects or whether companies and other institutions are trying to get rid of it easily and say: come on with that Groningen gas, because then I do not need to make it more sustainable or take other measures. In the coming years, the D66 Group will closely monitor the sustainability of this need for Groningen gas and we will not accept it if gas extraction is kept unnecessarily high, while there are alternatives to these institutions and companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u443	Thank you. I see that there is another interruption by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u444	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question for Mr Jetten, which concerns the budgetary right of the Chamber, because that is what he asked questions about. We have received a whole analysis from our staff and he says that formally the House of Representatives has the final say in the budget. I can imagine D66 very much agrees with that, so I ask him if he agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u445	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u446	Then I wonder how he looks at the Minister's answer in the first term, in which he says: you can't do anything about it anymore, it's an accomplished fact and if you don't like it, he hasn't said so, that's my interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u447	I was also searching in the first period with my interruption following the interruptions by Mr Nijboer and Mr Van der Lee. However, I believe that the Minister's answer to my question was correct, namely that the commitments made by the Minister with Shell and Exxon are already legally binding. But we in the Chamber will soon be establishing the budget in its entirety, which includes this deal with Shell and Exxon or its elaboration. If we in the Chamber want to say no to this agreement with Shell and Exxon, then we will have to say no to that budget around Princess Day and then this minister has a problem. But I am very pleased that we are therefore going to gain a better understanding of the effects of this agreement on the general principles and on the costs and finances of the government, so that we can make that assessment right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u448	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a complex case. We agree on that. It's late, too, and that doesn't always help. I have seen that the Minister has done his best to follow my call and to provide as much information as possible or to admit it in several letters. I'm happy about that in itself. Anyway, I also think it would have helped if more information had already been available in advance. Then perhaps we could have a more orderly debate and zoom in on a number of issues further. I'm going to do that with a few things, because I feel that due to the haste and complexity I haven't been able to explain a number of things well enough. In connection with the letter to come about liability, I would like to zoom in on one point. I hope that this can be addressed in that letter. The minister says: the NAM is no longer attached to the switch or the crane of Slochteren and that means that you can actually not ask much more of the NAM than that it should limit any damage caused by the gas extraction as much as possible but cannot prevent it, because it is no longer on the button. The question then is: is the government obliged to prevent this damage? Or has that expired? Or has it been replaced by the government's efforts to bring down gas extraction as quickly as possible? Or does that job simply shift to the government itself? So that is at least a question that I would like to see answered in that letter, and perhaps already in the second period. Let me now turn to the amendments to item No. 7 and 8 and the coalition's amendment to item No. 25 on motivating that consideration. I think there's been a real misunderstanding here, so I'm gonna try and explain it one more time. There are three interests at stake: the importance of the safety of the Groningen people, the importance of the safety of other Dutch people, who may be at stake if there is no gas supplied, and the social interest read: the employment of activities that fail if there is no supply. My amendment seeks to see these first two interests together as the security concern. Of this, I think it is very reasonable to say in the law: that safety interest, both components, deserves priority over the social interest, which I do not miss, because that is important but of a little less importance. Mrs Beckerman's amendment distinguishes between these two types of security interests. It focuses on the importance of the safety of the Groningers. The same applies to the coalition amendment, which asks the Minister, in his motivation and subsequently in a motion, to zoom in on this interest in particular. My problem is that it seems complicated to me to consider the safety interests of the Groningen people and the safety interests of the other Dutch people, who can be affected if the gas extraction does not take place. I can imagine that you're balancing the combined security interest with the rest of the security of supply. That is what my amendment is looking forward to, so I hope that the Minister understands better what I am trying to do and would like to reconsider for a moment whether the judgment he has given is appropriate. I hope it was clear. I would like to make a very brief comment on the amendment to item No. 13. That's a pretty simple amendment. That actually calls for the report to be sent to both the Minister and the Inspector-General of Mines by the mining authorisation holder of the Groningenveld. I just don't understand why that's not recommended. It seems to me that it would be very useful for both the inspector general and the minister to carry out the task if both of them, at the same time, were to receive this report. The Minister asks which amendment is involved. So that is the amendment to item No. 13; a beautiful number. That's lucky, isn't it? I also have two motions. One is about an issue that I have asked questions about that have not been answered in the first term. It's about the relationship between the Groningenveld and Norg, the storage. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there appears to be a potential loophole, which would allow gas to be sold through the storage fields of Norg and Graipskerk without making any profit;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the existence of such a loophole;]] [[calls on the Government, where this is the case, to make it impossible for gas to be sold by this route without payment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u450	Then I have one final motion. The Minister made a commitment on this, but I think it would be a good idea for all of us if we put it as well by way of a motion. It's about mapping the costs, a picture we'll hopefully get on Princess' Day. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unclear what precise costs are involved in the phasing-out of gas extraction, the settlement of damages, the reinforcement operation, village renewal, a new perspective for Groningen and the main agreements contained in the agreement;]] [[Whereas such an integral overview would strengthen Parliament's information position;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide a comprehensive overview of all expected costs for the State, Shell, ExxonMobil and other parties, which are linked to the recovery of or compensation for any damage caused by the gas extraction in Groningen and resulting from the phasing out of the gas extraction in the Groningenfield;]] [[calls on the Government to send this summary to the Chamber on Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u451	Locking up. I'm still suspending my final judgment. I'd like to see the letters and hear the second term. If necessary, I want a third term. I'll take a good look at the overall picture later. As a group, we will consider what we are going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u452	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are still a number of questions left over this evening, but one thing is really very clear to us: when it comes to the agreement with Shell and Exxon, this Parliament has simply been sidelined. And that doesn't make us happy. We get another letter about liability, about public law, criminal law and so on. That letter comes before the votes, but before that we are in any case going to table this motion. We can still hold on to them if we want. I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this bill will provide the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy with the operational strategy on the quantity of gas to be extracted per year;]] [[whereas the risk liability remains with the NAM, which is legally regulated by the termination of Article 6:178 of the Civil Code;]] [[Whereas the Minister himself referred to this construction as "not beautiful';]] [[Whereas this liability should be given a more definitive form in a subsequent legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently carry out an additional legal test to ensure that this construction is fully waterproof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u454	We have also warmly endorsed a number of motions and amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u455	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u456	Thank you, Mr President. It is significant that the VVD is again cheering when a deal is made with Shell. But when the fox preaches the passion, peasant watch your chickens. This deal should never have been closed. As far as the PvdA is concerned, he should never have been shut down under state law. It concerns so many parts of the House's budget law, and I am very committed to it. The Constitution and the Compliance Act define very precisely when the government must inform the Chamber and at what time the Chamber must give its assent. This deal deals with a great many aspects, both with regard to liability and with regard to risks, I would just like to mention the reduction in the value of the houses to be reimbursed, the compensation to be provided and the strengthening operation to be financed, as well as the distribution of gas extraction revenues until 2030, until new agreements have been reached, as with the investment fund. All these things have direct budgetary consequences and all these things have not been submitted to Parliament in advance. It just can't be. I tabled a motion on that in advance, because I saw it coming. That motion has been voted down, but the Compatibility Act cannot be voted down and the implementation of it is not, so this is going to get a big tail, even with the Spring note next week. Mr. Chairman. Then the 500 million and the credibility. Whether that's being told so honestly or not? Everyone knows about the distribution of costs. We heard the two shareholders of the NAM, both 50% shareholder, namely Shell and Exxon, saying that there was half a billion for Groningen. I do not think it is credible that it will then turn out to be 135 million two or three days later. I thought it was a cheap tip, I already told you: you can't ship Groningen off with that, but now it's nothing at all. It's just nothing. It just can't be. Nor is it the first time that the cabinet has not been clear about exactly what has been agreed with companies. Don't let that become a pattern. It's hard for the Minister to look at it. I didn't want to call it dividend, I wanted to leave it implicit, but he's looking at me so much now that I'm reminding him. I didn't want to remind you of this, but it's not the first time deals are made with companies, where it's always shady what happens. Then the law itself as it has been submitted to the Chamber and the law. I had already said something about the reply in the report and the explanatory statement. The Minister himself admitted that not every text was equally happy. I actually agree with what Mr Kops said about this debate: it has become a bit of a mess today. That's pretty bad, because Groningers is looking at this and wondering: what does this law mean for us and what does it mean for our safety? Three letters have been promised at very important points such as liability and the question of financing. In fact, a whole law has been promised, which should actually be here before the votes. Then we can also see what that means with that government function. We did not vote on that, but then we know what is going on. All that's gotta be done by Tuesday. We must have read all that and be able to judge it a little bit. In fact, the Minister's vote on Tuesday should preferably be taken. He's not about it. That's what he said nicely. But, yes, it's really not good to treat such a law with so many aspects in such a way. We are also failing ourselves as a parliament. So I will certainly support a third-term proposal on Tuesday, on the basis of these letters alone. After all, we ask them for a reason. They're serious letters. It is not even an opinion on an amendment that needs to be further worked out. They are serious, substantive letters, so that almost by definition requires a follow-up, certainly given this debate. Mr. Chairman. I am going to pass on briefly the five points I have put forward. On one point, I am somewhat more reassured by the Minister, namely the task of the SodM and the fact that the SodM may also give unsolicited advice and that that would also be serious. I've been asking some pretty critical questions about that. There is also an amendment on this point. I'll support that. I believe that it is better defined than the law and also in the direction my group is addressing. But on all four other points, with security of supply as a criterion, the PvdA Group has not become convinced. There is simply an economic interest, and that is not security of supply. It's not that if a household doesn't fuel gas, people die of hunger. I can't help it, but that's just what it's written down in those terms. Those terms just don't make sense, but they are the basis of this law. I have just said enough about the coincidence with all the other relevant aspects. For example, there is still a need for the law on public provision. The role of the minister. The Minister himself says that he may be much more bound now, but I was not entirely convinced of that during this debate. The Minister, or the minister's successor, still has a huge responsibility in the decisions on gas extraction. Mr. Chairman. All in all, although in principle we were quite positive about this proposal, we have come more farther from the vote in favour than from the vote against. I'll take those letters. We are a serious parliament, so I also seriously want to finish the legal process. I want to be able to judge all three letters and that bill. But this debate has not helped us to obtain the support of the PvdA. I didn't find the answer convincing on many parts either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u457	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mrs Mulder from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u458	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for his reply on this very necessary but also some complex law. Thank you for the many commitments he has made. I do have a few more questions. Mr. Chairman. We welcome the clarification given by the Minister that action can be taken on the basis of Article 50 if sudden increasing seismicity gives rise to this. In its opinion, the SodM proposes to lay down an alert for the increase in seismicity in a ministerial arrangement based on Article 52g, paragraph 5, which includes the measurement and rule protocol. Our question is whether the Minister is in favour of such an alert, a measuring bar on the basis of which a sudden sharp increase in seismicity is made visible. I would, of course, like to hear a commitment from the Minister. Thank you also for the letter we are going to get about the financial consequences. We have also become co-sponsors of Van der Lee's amendment. We will look very carefully at the letter on the clarification of liabilities after all the commitments made in this debate. We also really hope that before the vote on Tuesday we can see the bill on public damages. I think that's important to know for the region we're coming out of. I appreciate the Minister's gonna try his hardest for that. Mr. Chairman. We welcome the ACM's oversight of GTS, but we do wonder about GasTerra. Is there any check on GasTerra's records? How does that work? GasTerra, of course, has a commercial interest. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. The Minister would come back in the second period to the possible reduction of the maximum amount of extraction in this gas year. We still have a quarter. There may still be opportunities for that. Everything we don't have to win this gas year would, of course, be another step in the right direction. That's what I'd like to know from the Minister. I thank the Minister for his reply. It's a complex law in the end, but we all want to get back to zero as soon as possible. I think that's what we share here in this House of Representatives. I understand from the Minister that this is the only way to go along this route, including towards the First Chamber, in order to actually get things down on October 1st. Maybe he can confirm that one more time, or it'll give us just a little more rack and space. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u459	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u460	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said in my first term, this decision is a turning point; we are never going to win more than we need and we are going to take the road to zero gas extraction; we are going to cut it down. Mr. Chairman. We needed to clarify the balance between security for Groningers, security in relation to security of supply and social interest. As far as we are concerned, the Minister has made it very clear that Groninger's security is indeed at the heart of the matter, how it is operationalized and why it is written down as it is written down. I think it is very nice that this is now included in the Acts of this legal treatment, because there were questions about that. By making the balancing framework even more transparent and by sharing the motivation with us, I think we will be kept well informed of how it works. That is why I am very pleased that we have been able to table an amendment together with colleagues. In addition, I welcome the commitment to put it even better on paper, as has been said by colleagues. We have also supported these motions. I think this will help us all to get the picture more and more complete, as soon as it is known. Several Members spoke about the Minister's haste, but I think we all share the same urgency, at least that has been said by everyone in recent years. We all want to be able to start phasing out gas extraction in the new gas year, which starts in October, and that we can agree very clearly: never more than necessary. I believe that it is a shared interest in this Chamber and that we are all in favour of the pace that the Minister wants to keep in mind and the reason why he wants to vote on Tuesday. I'm glad we were able to treat it this way this evening. I am very curious about the Minister's second term, because a number of questions remain open. I also hope that we will be able to vote in that way on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u461	Before you can run away, I have a question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u462	I don't know how to place that shared interest. It is very well used in legal proceedings, even if one party so wishes, to be able to ask a number of questions in a third period. That's very common in the Chamber. I heard the minister. He said we should vote on Tuesday, but you could also vote on Thursday, because it's probably about the First Chamber and that won't happen one day. Then you could still have the decency for proper legal treatment. Does Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius close that door here too? I find that very unusual. That she says we have to vote Tuesday, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u463	I responded to the accusation that I heard in several words that the Minister would like to speed up. In my opinion, our shared interest is that we would like it to be in the new gas year, which starts in October, and that is why you have to have things around before the recess can go in this way. I heard the Minister say at the beginning of the sitting that this would require the vote on Tuesday, in order to save the First Chamber, in order to be able to deal with it properly, so that it would be there in October. I believe that this is also a shared interest. For the rest, I would not want to get in the way of a colleague who needs more information. Fine, if the Minister is still asked whether he can do so on Thursday. I am concerned that we should settle it in such a way that we do not have to deal with the old law in October, but with this change. That's what I'd like. Whatever it takes, it's fine. If there are more questions and it fits to get it into the First Chamber, that's fine, too. If it does not fit, I would like to invite Mr Nijboer to join us in thinking about what that means and how we can do it properly in October. I think that remains our shared interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u464	Of course, I'm always approachable to what I do. In other words, if we want a third deadline, if we can do so next week, if we can vote on Thursday and the timing of the Minister is not compromised, then the VVD will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u465	My interest is that the First Chamber can decide in good time and hopefully in a way that we can implement the gas decision in October. I don't know if that sentence is right; it's late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u466	I think it was a pretty run-of-the-mill sentence. Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had an important debate this evening in which we talked about a bill to minimize gas extraction in Groningen. Instead of filling the ceiling again and again, we are now going to minimize gas extraction. I think that is an important step, especially for the people in Groningen and for their safety. I thank the Minister for all the answers he has given. Many commitments have also been made and we will also receive information by letter, both next week before the votes, and for Princess Day. I'm not gonna repeat all that. Thank you very much. I'd like to file a motion on one part. The Minister also referred to it for a while and I had also announced it. The motion has to do with mental care. Needs are high. We were at a round table last week about the mental reinforcement of Groningen. The money is available; it is in the Regional Fund. There are still agreements to be made, but I think it is extremely important that we look ahead to these agreements to see if we can give substance to mental care, because it is very much needed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the research Groningen Perspective, carried out by the University of Groningen, shows that many people are suffering emotionally and suffering from feelings of insecurity, mental problems and health problems;]] [[noting that the government agreement agreed that a regional fund would be created from which money would be made available for mental care;]] [[Considering that consultations with the region on this fund are ongoing, but that the mental distress is high, as demonstrated by the round table "mental reinforcement" on 21 June 2018;]] [[Whereas there is a project plan for mental care, an independent and inter-disciplinary team of mental caregivers is ready to work and Solidair Drenthe and Groningen is willing to fulfil the employership;]] [[Calls on the Government to make sufficient funds available from the Regional Fund (one tonne on an annual basis) for mental care in this year from 1 July 2018;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before the end of the year about the implementation of mental care in coming years, with the project plan as its starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u468	Mr President, I do not think you wanted that at all; you simply said it wrong. Mr. Chairman. Speaking as a last speaker has disadvantages and advantages. A disadvantage is that a lot of spokesmen have already said very sensible things, and I cannot repeat that once again. But an advantage is that a lot of spokesmen have said sensible things, and I don't need to repeat them. I have signed one amendment and several motions. In addition, I make two motions myself. These are motions in an area where the Minister said: quite important, but not now a priority. It was about the climate. The Minister says we need to get rid of the Groningen gas because of the earthquakes, and that climate change will come later. Mr President, we will be hearing again later: we should have taken steps sooner. The Party for Animals wants to get rid of the Groningen gas extraction; let there be no misunderstanding about that. But the Animal Party doesn't think replacing natural gas with natural gas is a good idea. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Economic and Social Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee'),]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the natural gas tax can be used to speed up the removal of large-scale users of natural gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u469	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we must stop not only the earthquakes in Groningen, but also global warming;]] [[Notes that the climate has not been helped to replace Groningen's natural gas with natural gas from elsewhere;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to reduce the use of natural gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u470	It's late, Mr. Chairman. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u471	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg of the Party for Animals. Then we arrived at the end of the second term from the side of the Chamber. The Minister has requested a short suspension of 15 minutes. Then we'll move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u472	While Members are still seeking their seats, I give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u473	Mr. Chairman. Several spokesmen pointed out that the legal treatment in their eyes showed signs of haste. They also argue that haste is contrary to due diligence. This is perhaps the case in the eyes of some people, but I would like to point out that, as far as the serious task of reducing gas extraction in Groningen is concerned, it must almost be seen as an expression of care, because we are late, but we were too late with this, it would certainly have been careless. So it might have been a trade-off. The team worked their asses off to get everything done on time. In the eyes of some spokesmen, these traces of almost perhaps have been visible. I'm gonna drop by the questions. Mrs Beckerman still had quite a few questions. She wants GTS to have the legal task of draining the Groningen gas. GTS is a public network operator, a kind of TenneT. For example, TenneT cannot reduce electricity consumption; it cannot. But I see Mrs Beckerman is going to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u474	I can see that, too. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u475	I didn't ask if they'd get the legal job. It has been pointed out that GasTerra and GTS have a commercial interest in gas extraction. Then it advised SodM not only to arrange for them to reduce gas extraction, but also to legally oblige them to do so as soon as possible, to ensure that the commercial interest is not decisive, but also to ensure that it is done as quickly as possible. That was a suggestion from your supervisor. My question to the Minister was to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u476	Yes, but this mix with a commercial task is not decisive for this public network operator. The earning model is determined by the ACM. It is precisely GTS that is given the role of preparing estimates for the required volume and has the task of bringing it down as soon as possible. Those tasks and roles are very detailed in the bill. In addition, GTS is also required to report deviations from the estimates, so that gas extraction can be further reduced. Other than that, I don't see any options for that legal guarantee. I do not see any sense in extending that task there. Then Mrs Beckerman asks: when does it actually deal with damage? That is probably what she is referring to. If the distribution of payments becomes different and if it also implicitly changes the distribution of costs, then what damages does that actually apply to? The bill stipulates that it will start on 1 January 2018, so with retroactive effect. Then it is not the moment of the occurrence of the damage that is also not always to be examined, nor the moment of claim, because that can also be unclear, but the moment of payment. Then she asked me to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u477	Just a moment, I see there's a question left. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u478	So the state's gonna pay more for the damages. It is about the moment of payment and that is as of 1 January 2018. Is this about all the damage, including, for example, the damage that falls under the 6,000 old damage cases? For that, the state's gonna pay more than we knew before? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u479	But it's about the payment. The moment of payment is decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u480	You can ask me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u481	You're also in the process of dealing with those old damages cases. So the state's gonna pay more of that too than we've done so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u482	The new regime is entering. Then Mrs Beckerman called on me to go into her amendment to item No one more time. 8. That amendment is stuck, not the fact that it is placed one above the other, but that it has a binary effect here. In the eyes of the people who are trained to interpret laws, this means that you have to turn off the gas tap immediately or turn it to 12. In the amendment to item No. 8 The safety importance of security of supply is also deleted. But with this, it also falls out of the balance. You may or may not find it of great beauty that this is called a "safety interest," but it is an interest that plays a role in the consideration. And it disappears here. That is why this is an amendment that should not be recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u483	I see an interruption by Mr Jetten. On this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u484	Here's to what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u485	Maybe it'll be helpful if the Minister closes this up first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u486	Mrs Beckerman also asked me to comment further on the amendment on item No. 26. It says in the law that it goes to zero. Look, that's only important if something's awesome in some way. In 2030 to 0 and in 2022, at least from the second half of 2022, to a maximum of 12, that is what we should achieve in view of the basic path on our slippers. So these are situations where something goes terribly wrong. And if something goes terribly wrong, then that's terribly wrong, but that still calls for that consideration. And it's gonna make it impossible. I don't think we should. Removing the possibility of this consideration is not sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u487	At this point, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u488	Sorry, Mr President, but the Minister said in his letter of 29 March: from 1 October 2022 or a year earlier we are on 12. And he also said that by 1 January 2030 we are at 0. And now he says: that can actually be later, and that is why I am not going to regulate it legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u489	No, I'm saying that's the plan, but I never know what's gonna happen in the future. And that when that happens, and that's an eventuality that we don't foresee now and we don't think it's possible either, but that's what this passage is about. And you shouldn't block yourself in being able to make trade-offs that then, at that time, turn out to be necessary, even if you don't have a performance with them right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u490	A follow-up question from Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u491	Wow, we've really gotten to a painful point here. Because that means that all the agreed times when we had determined a certain level of gas extraction are now once again at risk and that we are not going to regulate it legally. I'm sure I've taken this as your least far-reaching estimate. That's pretty painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u492	There's no question about them at all. In fact, apparently Mrs Beckerman doesn't believe they're feasible. I think so. In that particular case, we cannot imagine that it is going wrong, and that is what Mrs Beckerman's amendment is about, if you want to be able to weigh up. That's not weird. But I suppose we don't have to make that assessment, because I think these data are just feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u493	Mr Jetten has a previous point to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u494	My first debate was at 10 a.m. this morning. So excuse me, it might be me, but I'm gonna double-check it anyway. Did the Minister just reply to Mrs Beckerman's question that the payment of the old damages cases is in line with the new cost allocation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u495	The payment date is decisive and the date is 1-118.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u496	I don't really understand that. The NAM has trained for years in damage handling. We in the Chamber and this minister, too, have really had to tackle the NAM firmly a number of times in order to finally deal with the old damage cases properly and generously. So that's been trained for years. We're dealing with it at a fast pace right now. We all want that handled before 1 July. In the meantime, a new agreement has been reached. And then the NAM gets as a gift for that years of training that the State is going to pay a greater share of the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u497	Let's not speak in terms of "gifts." An integral contract has been concluded. In doing so, oil companies have left 70 billion in gas under ground. A date had to be chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u498	Finally, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u499	I'm just looking for the words, Mr. Chairman. But I think this is perhaps the worst point I have heard this evening about the overall agreement. In the first term, I said that the agreement, even if it has critical questions, is ultimately a balanced agreement for me. But the point of those 6,000 old damages in this Chamber has raised so much discontent. We in the Chamber have so often asked the Minister to take a firm stand on NAM. That's what this minister did. I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment to those 6,000 old damages. But the idea that we're going to pay a larger part of the costs now, I think, frankly, a little bit of "what shall I say?" Oh, I'm sorry. Let me use that word, otherwise I'm going to use words that I might not be able to use at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u500	Okay. Another response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u501	Here, doubt is sown as to whether it is the moment of payment or reporting. This kind of doubt is not appropriate. I'm going after this. I am saying that it is the moment of payment, but I also say that we must assess this agreement in its entirety. There are always elements that can do better. For each individual component, we can come up with something that would have been even better. It's possible, but I'm looking at it as a whole. We have the cabinet's commitment here. Then it's not about millions. It's about billions. We've brought in billions, in the sense of the claim. This is not only about the permanent payment of the damage and reinforcement, but also about the guarantees that lie behind the oil companies. Those were the big points. Those are the things that are about billions. We've realized it with this. That is very reassuring, because that is exactly what we have been worried about for a long time, including in this Chamber. On each individual part there are things to come up with that we would have wished for. It doesn't take much effort. But I'm looking at the deal as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u502	It's almost 0.20 hours, but here comes a very ugly monkey from the sleeve, a very ugly monkey. We have had years of discussion here in the Chamber about the responsibility of the NAM and what it had to pay for damages, about how the NAM trained and that people were completely molested and stuck in procedures. And now, at 0.20 a.m., we've been working for hours, and suddenly it turns out that Shell and Exxon have to pay less for that. Isn't that incomprehensible? Not only financially, but also morally, is it not incomprehensible that the Minister has concluded such an agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u503	That's a question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u504	It's inexplicable anyway. Minister, you just said that the NAM...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u505	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u506	Yes, this was my question, but you looked at me asking me, like, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u507	I'm judging the deal as a whole. We can all think of how we would have liked it to be different, but I also say that the major parts of this deal are all in line with the government's commitment. It's been six months, but that's where we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u508	We are actually getting to the crucial point, because I have the feeling that Parliament is taking this offense too. I have always said that we must be able to influence this in advance, otherwise the Minister will make deals which are simply not acceptable and which cannot bear the support of this Parliament. We also have a follow-up next week and I'm going to make sure that this part really goes out. I hope there will be a majority in favour of this, because this simply cannot be done. You can't reward a company that molested the place for its behavior, can you? Isn't that incomprehensible, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u509	This wasn't an outcome I expected in advance. Let me be very honest about that. I'm in pretty good shock anyway. But maybe it's the time and maybe we can check with Shell, Exxon and NAM to see if they really meant to. From here on, I make an urgent moral appeal to those parties to clarify whether they really intended to do so. I cannot imagine, because they themselves know that they also had a part in it that those 6,000 damage cases have lasted so long. It would be a good thing for them to come out with the message that this is not what they meant. I'd like to give them that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u510	Do you still want to respond to this, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u511	The apple is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u512	Okay. I shall now give Mrs Beckerman the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u513	I do welcome the reaction of my fellow Members, because this answer... I have already asked this question in the first place. What's the deal with that? Are you going to pay more for the damage? I find it really very painful, because we have seen a jubilant chord and this part has not been communicated anywhere. Suddenly I thought, "What about the damage and the backup?" I didn't get a reaction to that in the first term, and I complained about that. I got a comment on that and now the monkey's coming out of the sleeve. And it is indeed a very painful monkey! I'm glad everyone here is really shocked. We're talking about the damage settlement next week. I'm making a black book and it shows that this is incredibly sad. You don't want to know how bad that goes! I will stick to that, and this is even more reason for me to ask for a third deadline next week when it comes to regulating work, because this really must be done in this way. You can't do this, Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u514	I'm shocked, too. I really didn't see this one coming. That is why I am also in favour of holding a third deadline after we have had the debate on the damage and the reinforcement operation. Then we can judge it together. That will all be possible on Thursdays and should be because that is the last Chamber day. I do have a question for the Minister. He says, "I'm judging the deal as a whole." You can only judge that if you have all the costs in mind. You say that we have solved the claim of 70 billion. But the lion's share of that claim is actually the state's own claim. Right? It's not like that 70 billion would come from those two companies. It's also odd that you can claim something that's caused so much damage. I wonder now whether the Minister has concluded this deal on the basis of all the insights into the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u515	Mr. Chairman. A big team's been working on this for six months. It has been a very long journey of extraordinary complexity. For example, a lot of work has gone into testing all guarantees. This was done to ensure that the NAM would remain financially robust at all times and could pay it at any time and for years, regardless of the amounts. An "unlimited warranty" called Shell's representative it. Those are the things that have been looked at in great detail. These are also the things that the negotiations have been about to a significant extent. Those are the things that made or broke in this deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u516	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u517	Can the Minister at least promise that in the letter we will receive on the financial significance of this deal he will mention the amount involved in this item?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u518	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u519	So that we get a precise picture of how much money is involved and that the apple that Mrs Mulder did also becomes visible in hard euros? Then we can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u520	Fine. The apple has been heard and so has the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u521	So that's gonna be in the letter next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u522	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u523	Mr. Jetten, you've already been.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u524	If you will allow me, I would actually like to ask for the same undertaking as Mr Van der Lee has made. I am very pleased that the Minister wants to make that clear, but I still feel the need to say for a moment at this point that my anger is mainly directed at those companies that come to us and have wonderful stories about how important they think it is to deal with those old damages properly. When I hear this in the debate tonight, I really think: what a nice talk we have heard from these companies over the last few months! But I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment and my group will also assess the deal in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u525	Thank you. Then I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u526	I wasn't finished answering Mrs Beckerman's question. She's asking how that criminality is shifting. Part of the criminalisation option remains with NAM. In order not to follow the operational plan, the duty of care will remain. That can also be criminally prosecuted. This is about the damage that the level of extraction depends on the implementation of the operational plan. The size of the extraction can no longer be punishable by the NAM. That is a decision of the Empire, the State, but the State cannot be punishable. Control of the State is not carried out by the judge, but by politics. Mr Kops says that there is no law on how much extraction goes down. No, there are mining decisions for that, but we have just talked about that. Mr Jetten owed me an answer to the question of how quickly a temporary measure can be introduced. He means a temporary measure based on Article 50. We can do that right now. He also asked if any of those impact agreements would come after Princess Day. Yes, in all estimates, that's the case. Mr Van der Lee has asked me, let me see, 'I have the letter on liability' here. I'm getting really tired right now. Limiting it versus preventing it. He asked me, I believe, to go into that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u527	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u528	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u529	Yes, and especially whether that prevention now becomes a task of the government, because it no longer lies with the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u530	Yes. Then he asked an alien question about the three interests. The objections to this amendment, which I would also like to mention, are in its digital nature. That's the objection. He himself states that it is an important advantage that the two safety concepts are assessed in conjunction or jointly. He says that this would be easier, because he sees it as problematic to weigh those two safety aspects against each other. Now I have to say that it is not easy to weigh all kinds of social interests against each other anyway, because they do not fit on the same scale, they are not monetaryizable, they are not very comparable. That will always be an assessment. I do not know whether it will be much easier to put two very different safety concepts together, because they are very different things. One's about someone getting hurt by a quake. The other may be that someone is deprived of certain facilities and has difficulty in heating it up in winter time. These are things that vary greatly according to the seasons and can be very different according to the size. The extent to which this occurs is also very different. The insecurity experience is also very different. So I don't know if it's gonna make it easier to throw it all together. I appreciate that the second concept of security is not put out of hand, as has been suggested. So it's in the game, but I don't know if the merger is going to make it much easier. It's just a very complicated trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u531	There's still an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u532	One last attempt, though. I object to the interpretation that this is binary. It is, by definition, not binary, because these safety aspects need to be considered in full. So you can't say that the safety of the Groningers automatically precedes, because that means that I understand that you should go straight to 12 billion cubs. But there is also another safety aspect, so that cannot be done at the same time. Together, however, they would have to weigh a little more heavily than the economic interests that are generally linked to security of supply. I think that is what the Minister is trying to do, so I simply do not understand why this amendment is being judged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u533	I agree with the latter, but if the common security concepts are set out in the law above all other social interests, then it could still be that they have a binary effect, because in the weighting one is put above the other in absolute terms. Mr Van der Lee also asks whether the government is obliged to limit the damage instead of the NAM. Then let me go into that in that letter. The essence of the answer will, of course, be that the operational strategy to be adopted should have a role to play in reducing damage. He is also actually asking for comments on his amendment to item No. 13. I have been quite honest in saying that I do not think this amendment is a disaster. But it is also here that the Nijboer says it in a different way, but we are dealing here with serious legislation that in the system this kind of reporting has one direction. They go to the ruler and then are spread out. You can arrange things differently, but there is a certain hygiene in keeping up with these kinds of systems. So that's why it's not recommended, but I don't think I made another scene of it. It is therefore up to Mr Van der Lee to deal with this. Then Mrs. Mulder had questions. Can we go back into mining even further than this? I've had several discussions about it. Whether one goes further back depends a little bit on it. We had a level of 21.6. Without further legislation, a little bit of string and on a voluntary basis has been done about this. That means that for this gas year we have to be more precise, I do not know at the moment between 19.5 and 21 billion cubic metres. So we're going to be lower than the level. We're trying to be even lower on that voluntary basis. Preferably as close to 19,5, but more will be known about this later. She asks whether this ministerial arrangement can also work as a kind of measuring bar, on the basis of which you can deal with that seismicity. Let me try, by including it in that ministerial arrangement. Then she also asks if there is any check on GasTerra's data. I don't know if we should include that in this bill. GasTerra is indeed a public-private market player. It's a commercial party that wants to sell gas. He has a board of commissioners. It's just a market party. It will not be GasTerra that determines the level of extraction of the Groningen field. That's not what's going on here. Market parties can come forward for all kinds of things, but they should not decide the policy. Then I have the motions. I don't know if I'm going to make the motion in part no. 28 totally understand. I am looking at Mrs Beckerman, who is the first signatory. Does "preventive measures" mean, for example, that we need a massive reinforcement operation to avoid damage rather than guarantee safety? That's an unfeasible thing. Or does it say here that the avoidance of damage should also be included in the extraction procedure? In the latter case, but that should be somewhere, I think that is a matter of course and leave the motion for a resolution to the Chamber. But in the first case, it's a completely unfeasible motion. This motion is a little dangerous because of its broad interpretation, so I am actually asking for a sharp explanation from Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u534	I understand that, but the letter on liability has yet to be sent to the Chamber. That is not because Members of Parliament do not understand what liability is, but because almost everyone points out that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the law that is now in place. So I'd like to be sharper, but we're missing that information right now. So I would like to wait for the Minister's letter and then submit the motion as amended, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u535	I do not know if we are talking about the right motion, because in the motion in part No. 29 by Mrs Beckerman is asked for an explanation. I say that the law is not very clear but that there are still a lot of questions about it. I want the motion in part no. Let's just do that. Let's just leave it to the Chamber. But I have doubts about the motion in part No. 28. It is about preventive measures, and I cannot advise on them if I do not know what Mrs Beckerman means by that. I would even ask her to tighten that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u536	Then at least we already have "judge chamber" inside about the motion in part no. 29. I don't think you want anything out of it, Mrs. Beckerman. You can give some further explanations on the motion in part No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u537	It's a short try. The essence is that preventive measures and reinforcement are currently based on Article 33 of the Mining Act. The new law now before us takes out Article 33. So that has to be dealt with in a different way. We have considered that we also want certainty about liability for prevention and strengthening, and hence this motion. The Minister is looking very hard right now. I think it's smart to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u538	I'd like you to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u539	The motion is therefore really intended because that article is being deleted and we do want to make it clear about preventive measures, which indeed includes this strengthening operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u540	Oh, I can't see this. Of course, there's gonna be a law on reinforcements. I think it is dangerous, with the accumulation of concepts but also the remaining vagueness, to give an opinion on this. Maybe Mrs Beckerman can think about it for a while and put something clear on the table. There are interpretations that can't be done. I can also come up with interpretations that can and I would welcome them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u541	But we do need an opinion from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u542	Then pro forma advise, but then I leave it to Mrs Beckerman to somehow...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u543	In order to perhaps get in touch for a modified motion, but at the moment the motion is in part No. 28 dissuade. The motion in part No. We'd already had 29. Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u544	The motion in part No. 30 calls on the government to submit a timetable towards zero. This is what we're doing now. I've already sent the first progress letter. I intend to do that more often. I'll leave this motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 31 I have to advise against. NAM cannot actually supervise a government mining decision. NAM can advise and is also free to do so. Or NAM... I mean SodM. Sorry. I'm in a climate agreement, top sectors... I've been working on a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u545	But the verdict is still: dissuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u546	Yeah, dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u547	Then the motion to part No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u548	The motion in part No. 32. This isn't gonna be a surprise, but I'm gonna have to advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 33 I must also advise against. I've just heard the call; I'm gonna get rid of it. Then the motion to part No. 34, on the serious involvement of the security interests of local residents. That's the point. This motion perhaps expresses one of the most important points of this debate. That's where we really found each other, so I'd like to leave this motion to the House's judgment. Then the motion to part No. 35: "calls for... to make it impossible for gas to be sold by this route (...)." That's already impossible. I think it's misread. I believe that the authors of this motion are aware of Article 6.4 and read in it that there is a possibility of avoiding certain payments. But it's not. That article talks about the Vpb, but that only relates to the compensation and not to the gas itself. No gas route has been created. Now I can say that we can leave the motion to the judgment of the Chamber, but I might as well say that the motion is superfluous and that I advise her not to. Let me dissuade the motion, because I would say firmer that this loophole does not exist. Otherwise, I'm suggesting that there would be. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 35 with that. Then the motion to part No. 36. I'll leave that to the Court's judgment. The motion in part No. 37, about an extra legal test as a matter of urgency. That extra legal test won't work in the next week. The Council of State has reviewed it. If there is a legal test after that, it is probably mustard after the meal. It was reviewed by the Council of State. He didn't make any comments. I maintain my view that this is legally sufficiently harsh. I'd like to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u549	The Council of State has also expressed its doubts about this, so I would think that that legal test is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u550	Maybe we'll talk about other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u551	The Council of State has expressed its doubts about the legal sustainability of this deal due to the mining obligation that now lies with the Minister. That's what the letter says in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u552	Well, I don't believe that. I really have to rely on the opinion that this is sufficiently legal. If we had had four weeks, I would have liked to strengthen Mrs Sazias's confidence by considering this, but I don't see anything in it right now. I really need to discourage the motion, and so do I. The Council of State has asked to motivate it better, but the Council of State has expressed no doubt about the construction; in my view, it has not. The motion in part No. 38 I leave to the judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 39 calls on the Government to examine how natural gas taxation can be used to speed up the supply of natural gas to large-scale users. Let me say two things. As far as I am concerned, these binding measures are not at issue. At the same time, the letter does mention that measures are behind hand. In that sense, therefore, we are examining this matter and I would like to leave it to the Chamber to assess it, and I would like to state for the record that binding measures are not currently being discussed. Then the Wassenberg motion c.s. in piece No. 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u553	I'm sorry, I'm just seeing that Mr Wassenberg still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u554	Now I'm off my case. I am not asking for binding measures here either. I'm asking for an investigation. It will then be possible to consider later whether this should result in a mandatory measure, but that is not yet the case in this motion. In that sense, as far as I am concerned, the "judgement chamber" can be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u555	I'd already given the motion "judge chamber." This plea wouldn't have been necessary for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u556	I say count your blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u557	I think I understand Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u558	But Mr Jetten also has a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u559	It was, of course, nice to see that Mr Wassenberg almost fell down the stairs because his motion got 'judgement chamber'. This motion calls on the government to examine how natural gas taxation can be used to get large-scale users to get rid of natural gas quickly. The D66 Group thinks this is a very nice request, but my question is when we could get more information on it. Will this be part of the climate and energy agreement or will the Minister carry out this motion by a separate route?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u560	No, this is clearly the trajectory of the reduction of extraction in the Groninger field. In that context, we are looking at this. That means that we are going to have an effect on that at the moment that is at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u561	I see another interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u562	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but I had to look for the piece. I'll come back to Norg anyway and what's in the contract about that. It says: "As of 1 January 2018, the distribution of the profits from the Norg and Greipskerk stores will be adjusted in such a way that NAM will only be liable for corporation tax on the profits from the Norg and Graipskerk stores."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u563	That's about the storage costs, not the gas...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u564	I suggest you finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u565	My point is that if there had been "profits from the use of" it would have been clear. This was the reason why I thought "there could be a loophole," because it is not made explicit. Can't that be clarified in the next contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u566	I think that's a good suggestion. If Mr Van der Lee reads other things in that, this seems to me to be a point for the drafting agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u567	Does this mean anything to your judgment on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u568	No, there is no loophole and I have just promised Mr Van der Lee that I will make it clearer in the drafting agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u569	That's good. Then I think we have come to the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u570	We're at the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u571	Excuse me. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u572	Then I'll withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u573	Since the motion-Van der Lee c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u574	Mr. Chairman. The Wassenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 40 calls on the government to make maximum efforts to reduce the consumption of natural gas in general. Let me just wait and see if this is the most effective route. It may be that we should focus more on coal than on natural gas. I am in favour of achieving the most efficient route to 2050 and I cannot just say that this route is well summarized in that one sense. So I'm actually dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u575	The motion in part No. 40 is not recommended. I see an interruption by Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u576	I would like to return to my previous point. I have here the letter from the Council of State. They wrote: "The Section notes that the introduction of the mining obligation raises the question of whether the holder of the licence remains liable after the entry into force of the bill for the future damage caused by soil movement under Article 6:177 BW, or that the exception under Article 6:178 BW then arises. This question has also been asked in various consultation responses."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u577	That is therefore a question for further clarification. These questions have been answered in the further explanation, but there is no doubt about the legal hardness of the construction. A clarifying question is asked; two even. This has then been clarified. This does not require a legal test, but clarification. Mr. Chairman. I think I got through it. I'm all over it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u578	Then we have arrived at the end of the debate, rather late at night. I thank the Minister for answering all the questions. I would also like to thank Members for their contributions. I would like to thank all the staff of the House of Representatives, the ministries and the political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-28-tweedekamer-15.u579	We are going to vote on this proposal on Tuesday or otherwise at another time, depending on what the rules of procedure say about it.
