ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Bosman's question, on behalf of the VVD, to the Secretary of State for Defence, whom I would also like to welcome, on the purchase of military equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. When I read the message in De Telegraaf "Overleven op de pof," I remembered 16 March last, when we were visiting the Enhanced Forward Presence, our men and women in Lithuania with the permanent Committee on Defence. It was very cold back then. It was reported how difficult it was to get clothes for that cold weather. There was no check mark on "cold weather fit." That discussion has been held firmly and ultimately it has worked out well, but it has taken time. That was a bad thing back then, and it still is. Our men and women just need good stuff. Period. From experience we know that it is very cold in Norway in winter. In fact, a lot of units, for example the Marines, do cold weather training there. The knowledge about the environment, the temperature and the climate is present. Then the purchase of this kind of equipment is part of the whole preparation of such a great exercise? Can the Secretary of State explain to me when it became known that this exercise would be held and when it came to the conclusion that there was not enough clothing? For how is it possible that there is money for clothing and that a market participant can also supply these specialized clothing in large quantities, while the organisation of Defence, the Clothing and Personal Equipment Company, the KPU, created for that purpose is not able to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good to hear that you have been in Lithuania with the Permanent Chambers Committee. I've been there myself, and I've been there in Norway. It's cold out there. I can only endorse Mr Bosman's call for our military to earn the best clothing. To deal specifically with your question: I think this is an exceptional situation, and I do not want to see it anymore, because it is important that our military should simply get the clothes they deserve. They should not have to do so themselves in a situation like this, with an advance they receive. So it is not the case that they have to advance it themselves; they simply get the money to buy the clothes themselves. But I would like to take you into account, because that was actually your question. We are dealing within the army with a shift from the use of some warmer areas to some colder areas such as Lithuania. Now we are going to participate in a great exercise in Norway. We haven't done that for years. The fact that we are part of this now says something about the deployment of the army and about what we as a military force could do. It is precisely with the experience we have gained in Lithuania that you have been able to take note of this yourself that we have seen that we need to do more when it comes to the cold weather. That awareness has been brought into the preparation of Norway. When planning this exercise, which began two years ago, it was thought that in October we did not have to have all these arctic clothes. That was the reason why the acquisition process was not used at the time. That is what we are now aware of, precisely because of the experience of the last period in Lithuania, where unfortunately we have had to deal with the cold weather and with soldiers who have suffered from it. It is therefore too late to start to engage in the acquisition of Arctic clothing. That is the first observation. That's why this emergency grip was chosen. I'll just call it that. We do want to equip our soldiers with the right clothes and so we are going to give the military an advance so that they can buy those clothes independently. As far as I am concerned, this is a truly exceptional position and cannot be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u5	It's good to hear that it's an exceptional position, but it's kind of strange to me. Again, we had that knowledge about Norway. It's very cold there. That is well known to the Defense Department, but apparently it has been decided too late to proceed to tender. But then my question remains: how is it possible for a market party to be able to supply that clothing to individual military personnel? Apparently, the money's there at the DOD. It is a good thing that the defense is giving an advance, but I know from experience that advances are very quickly offset by pay slips, which can get all kinds of men and women back into trouble. An advance like this isn't ideal. So my question remains: where in the organisation has it been decided not to buy those cold weather equipment, which led to a panic situation, in which we have to say very exceptionally: go buy it yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u6	First of all, to take away something: they just get that money extra for the purchase of those clothes. So your make sure that's taken into account with the salary...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u7	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u8	Just €1,000 will be paid for the purchase of the clothes. That doesn't count against the salary, that just adds up. I think it's good to notice that. The second important point is that you are right to say that it should have been there, but on the basis of the experience in Lithuania it was not thought that the weather would be so cold in Norway by October. In fact, due to additional security measures, it has been decided to introduce a cold weather package. It did not fit in with the regular tender that is now running from the clothing company of Defense to expand those deployment stocks. It couldn't be taken into account in that ongoing tender. That is why a practical way of specifying this has been looked at, and hence the choice of this option has been made. I have already pointed out that this option is not my preferred option, nor is it the preferred option of the entire defence organisation. There is now an invitation to tender, wider, for cold weather clothing to prevent repetition in the future, because we are still in Lithuania and who knows what major exercises we are going to do in northern areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'm a little worried about the tendering procedures. That's a problem we're a member of the Department of Defense. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the safety of the men and women whom we send and train is primarily the responsibility of the employer and that good material is essential in this respect? How does the Secretary of State, as an employer, know that the men and women have the good stuff, then, that they have bought it? If something goes wrong and afterwards it turns out that the clothes were not in order, then who is responsible? That cannot be the individual military, I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u10	I think I can only endorse what Mr Bosman says when it comes to the employer's responsibility. So that's what we stand for. It's good to distinguish between the clothing packages. It's about underwear and gloves and the like. It's not about combat gear. I think it's important to stress that. You're absolutely right. The employer is responsible for this and must ensure that this is in order. I take that very much to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. Mrs Bruins Slot has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u13	I have two questions. I'll start with the first one. It's a really bizarre course of things that soldiers have to buy their own clothes at the last minute. It doesn't matter to me that people don't know Norway. Marines have really been training in Norway for decades. The army's going there, too. It's not new. The risk of a soldier running if he doesn't have the right clothes is that he gets cold injuries: dead toes, dead fingers. So my question to the Secretary of State is: who is going to check whether the military have the right equipment? They bought it themselves, but is it appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u14	I cannot give you any assurances as to the way in which controls are to be carried out. Of course, it's about buying the right clothes. We'll see how we can see to that. I think the concern expressed by Mrs Bruins Slot is a justified one. Unfortunately, with the current clothing, we have also suffered cold injuries in Lithuania. That is exactly why additional measures have been taken for Norway. You're right to say that you might have foreseen that. All I can see is that it didn't work out that way. This was later provided for in the framework of security measures. That's why it's being lifted now, but unfortunately it's too late for a group of soldiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Trident Juncture exercise has been on the agenda for years. The debate on Arctic clothing for Lithuania took place for more than a year. Then the question is when exactly was this known? When did this measure take place? There is also a second point. Who's really controlling? Soon the military will be there with -27 ̊C with not the right clothes he bought because we didn't arrange it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u16	That responsibility lies with the employer and that's me. On my behalf, it's up to the C-LAS, so the army itself to check this out. I think the C-LAS is listening right now. People are very aware that this simply needs to be resolved. So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have been on this committee for a year and a half, and I regularly fall open, not to use another word. Of course, it's ridiculous what's going on with the Defense Department now. I'm really not the person to use these terms all the time, but with the DOD, there's almost no other way. The situation is absurd. That you're asking people to go and buy their own things, I don't understand how it came to you, how it even came to the army to organize this. I have a question and a comment. The question is: is KPU actually in control? If you don't see an exercise coming two years in advance, then you're not there very quickly, just to sum it up nicely. The other point I want to make is this. When are you going to take care of it after this commotion? You can see all those people standing here... that the army simply buys the good stuff for the people themselves? I don't want to hear about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u19	KPU makes a tender and is therefore in control. There was now an additional request from the army. KPU stated that this was not applicable in the current tender. You can find a lot of that, but that is the purchase contract that is now being drawn up. In fact, it is also now about Mrs Bruins Slot's question. The army will take care of this itself. They're their people, too. They are the decentralised employer who must ensure that their people go on the right path. It's just been chosen that people have additional clothes. This was neither foreseen nor considered necessary in the first instance. From a security point of view, it has been said that we do consider this necessary and we have been looking for a very practical solution, in which it has been said that soldiers can buy this independently. Does that deserve the beauty prize? No. Is that supposed to be better next time? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u20	My colleagues have asked many important questions, and of course the same applies to us: we think it is rather absurd that we should talk about military coats in the House of Representatives. The moment you talk about it and we talk about trusting the armed forces to get things back in order, I have to say that it's going down to a low point. This is so primal. Everyone understands that it makes sense that you need this for work. My question is as follows. I've been on a work visit in Lithuania. Those people didn't have the right coats there during their exercises. Then it was found that they did indeed need coats. I hope very much, however, because several politicians had found that the people in Lithuania did not have the good coats that were then used for the mission in Norway, which you knew had been coming for a year. That's important to me, isn't it? I want the Secretary of State to promise that the military will not work there with coats that do not meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'm trying to understand the question, but I don't quite understand it. You say that the coats that were not correct in Lithuania may be used in Norway? No? Then I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u22	The people in Lithuania didn't have the right coats. They were delivered eventually, I think in the last three, four months. Those coats, I can imagine, may have been originally intended for the mission in Norway. So my question to you is: you have not given Lithuania the coats of Norway because you have noticed problems in Lithuania; so, we have resolved that, and then we will see what we can do for the Norway mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u23	The answer is no. It is not the case that there was a package for Norway that was then put in place for Lithuania.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u24	This is your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u25	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u27	But she didn't answer one question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u28	No, but you've already reworded your question once. That's it. Unless you have a second question to ask. No? Mr Stoffer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u29	We too really do not think this is normal, and there is a great deal to be done before we use that term. If I read it correctly in De Telegraaf, it is about 1,000 people who have to buy something for €1,000. If you multiply that, you get to a million. My first question is: isn't there someone within the Defense Department who has a mandate for a million dollars? If so, let them sign it very quickly and just buy these things. That's a lot easier than sending 1,000 people to a store to buy this, at the risk of having the wrong stuff. I'm really calling on the Secretary of State to just sign that one. For all I care, that goes a little bit wrong with the control and so on, but that is my question. I hope to get a positive answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u30	I understand Mr Stoffer's question. I think it's a fair question, too. We're gonna see if there's another way we can organize it. So I'll take over your call in that sense. I think it is important to say, perhaps, that that is also Mrs Belhaj's question, which I have misunderstood, that substantial investment is being made in combat clothing and uniforms in the coming period. You recently received a letter from me about the combat clothing and the packages we purchased for that purpose. They will be delivered from 2020. All men and women on mission now get new combat gear, get new helmets, get new combat jackets. So there is substantial investment in that to ensure that men and women can go on missions in a good way, including in the field of exercises. I think it is important to repeat this, because otherwise the picture will be displayed that there will still be, in future, delays. We're running into them fast. As of 2020, that applies to everyone. In the interim, we need to look at very practical solutions. This is what the army chose to do here. It is right that Mr Stoffer says 'look at it again', as Mrs Bruins Slot actually said, so that you also have the check. I'm gonna take another look at that. So I'll take that question from you. But this has been done from the perspective of how we can ensure that we can manage this in the short term, because in an ongoing procurement procedure it is not possible to manage it and we do consider it important in the context of the security of our military.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr. Stoffer, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u32	I'm allowed to say that now, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u34	Yeah, that's what I thought. Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State. My question is: when will we get an answer? I would like to be informed as a Chamber, very soon, or I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u35	I'll get to that as soon as I can. So I'll let you know as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u36	End of the week?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u37	If I have an answer to that at the end of the week, I'll do it by the end of the week, but if it takes longer, it'll come later. So I'm gonna do it for you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u39	We know that a lot of soldiers have been leaving DOD for a long time. One of the reasons is that they don't get enough or at all the materials they would want. Okay, here's the jasper story. Two weeks ago, we heard that these uniforms do go to terrorist groups in Syria, while our own personnel, our own Defence, do not have the opportunity to get their own soldiers a decent coat. How do you explain that to our Defense personnel? And what does that do with the course of our staff and the growth that should now take place in order to defend our country? How do you explain that? Don't be ashamed...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u41	...for these events?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u42	Together with the Minister, I represent an organisation that is proud of what it does and I think that the people who work there are proud of what they do and want the right resources for it. I have had several debates with you in which you have said above all: no investment in equipment. I hope that you will work with me in the coming period to increase the investment of the defence industry. We've come a long way. It's an organization that's been cutting back for 30 years. That does something to an organization. It also shows where you're from. But this organization and these people are willing to go for it. The Minister and I are willing to go for it. We need to pull it very hard to ensure that we are able to make these investments as quickly as possible. That is exactly why all these investments are now running. Now the orders are made for the combat clothing. It will be delivered in 2020. This means that you will see these investments in the budget in 2020. Just all these people deserve to have good helmets, good vests and good combat uniforms. It is now being invested in. I look forward to your support for this, because I have not always seen it in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u43	Your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u44	Yes. What you hear in society is that the terrorists get the uniforms faster than our own Defense personnel. We already know that EUR 25 million has gone to terrorist organisations in Syria. And now you're here to tell me that I'm working on that. How is that possible? You can't defend this story anymore. Either we ensure from now on that all our staff get all the materials it deserves, or we stop supporting terrorist organisations. It's two and one...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u46	...but you can't support terrorists on the one hand, and on the other hand, our Defense personnel...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr President, Mr Öztürk is calling for something, but let us at least look at what we have in common, namely that I am pleased that you are now expressing your support for all the letters I have sent you over the past period. In that I ask you for a mandate for additional investments, for investments in combat jackets, in combat uniforms, in helmets and in night vision goggles. I've sent them all to you in the past few years. We will have a debate on this shortly. I hope for your legitimate support, because it is more than necessary to achieve this. So let's not make all kinds of comparisons, but let's make sure that they get what they deserve. I welcome your support for this, so we are going to have that debate in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u49	Colleagues have already said that billions remain on the shelf and in the meantime we leave people in the cold. This is not an exercise in the Caribbean, where it is said: maybe we have another hour left, then you can go for a swim, and buy yourself a Speedo. This is an exercise under bizarre and harsh conditions that has been known for over a year. Then you can't send people to the Perry Sport yourself, but then you just have to supply them with all the materials. I understand that there are many things to note about the procurement and procurement process. One factor that is involved is that it is very difficult for the Defense Department to get to people and put them in the right place behind the right buttons. For me, it has something to do with the appreciation and respect that the men and women of our armed forces deserve, the people in the field, from high to low. There are very nice words dedicated to that, there is a very nice note devoted to it, but they do not see it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u50	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u51	They do not see it in the wage agreement that has recently been concluded. They won't see it back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mr. Kerstens, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u53	When will the Secretary of State and the Minister translate all these fine words into the respect and appreciation that the people of Defense, like all their colleagues who work for the public cause, deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of investment in that. You know the outcome of the negotiations. There is considerable investment in the retirement provision of military personnel; they are heavily compensated for the transition from a final wage to a middle wage system. When it comes to the wage bill: similar to any other public sector. There is considerable investment in the public sector when it comes to the wage bid. Whether it's military, police, education or care, this cabinet is investing in it. Major agreements have been reached. You're talking about recruiting supplies. We're working hard on that. I just mentioned all the letters about the combat gear, the combat gear. When I look at the extent to which we have succeeded in the past period, the previous Minister, Mr Delors, has also put the spare parts back on the shelf, for example. That was 30% and by now we're at about 90%. So there has been a lot of work in the past to get this done. Two weeks ago, a contract signed to modernise Apaches. I can give you a whole laundry list of things you know yourself. In May, I was accused by Mrs Diks of sending so many letters of intention to invest to the Chamber. So that's what we're going to do, but sometimes it takes a while to realize it. Take those F-35s we ordered. We've got two now, and next year we're gonna get eight happy ones. But then we've got the rest we need to get. You won't see that in my budget until I get the invoice. Then it looks like I have money left over, but I haven't at all, because I just made the commitment, so that money is spent. All those men and women whom you say they want to be appreciated, besides the wage agreement and the good retirement provision, also need good military uniforms in order to do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u55	Your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u56	It's not about whether we see it here in the Chamber, it's about whether the military at Defense sense it, and I can tell you that they don't feel it, that they don't feel it and that they don't feel it fast enough. Hence my call: show the lake, show it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u57	I recognize that feeling. That is one of the most important things in the coming period: the restoration of confidence. An organization that has been neglected for 30 years, with people who also feel they have been neglected... You can't fix that inside, what is it, ten months? You're just dealing with lags. Then you have to work one step at a time. The point is that you know how to offer perspective. With the 1.5 billion extra invested by this cabinet, that perspective is again there. Is that immediate for everyone? No, I'm afraid not. I wish it were. With a new pension result, with a new wage offer but above all with all the other things that are happening at the moment not only because of me but also because of all those commanders and all those soldiers I see an improvement. But I agree with you, we have to go a long way and we have to work hard to restore trust, because we are absolutely not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u58	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u59	It is just super embarrassing that this is happening again, that it is again about the basic security of the military personnel that is not guaranteed. When I hear the Secretary of State here, it's like the DOD's problems are falling out of the sky. That is certainly not the case. The cabinet and previous cabinets could have chosen to give priority to staff, working conditions, equipment, personal equipment, instead of competing in the highest spectrum of violence. The choice could have been made to buy those good winter coats instead of purchasing the JSF for a few billion euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mrs Karabulut, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u61	My question to the Secretary of State is: when was the Secretary of State aware of this problem? When did the Secretary of State order this problem to be solved? Why didn't they choose to buy these jackets by means of a separate procedure? Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u62	I knew as much about this particular problem as you did before reading the Telegraph article. This is carried out by the commanders responsible for planning such an exercise. If you're asking if I'm willing to look... I have just indicated to Mr Stoffer that, of course, we are going to see if we can speed this up and also make it easier. You say: if you had not invested in the JSF, you would not have had this problem. I don't agree with you. I don't recognize that at all. The JSF is also necessary. We have a constitutional task. This includes, for example, defending our own airspace. You just need a fighter. That's where an F-35 was chosen. You don't think so. You also think differently when it comes to military deployment. We have a debate on this every time. It is democratically decided on the use of our military, on the choice we make here, including in the budget. You can see the investment planning every year, including what we propose to your Chamber. You can say that you do not want some things and other things do, but it is not the case that the Chamber has not been informed about the investments made by Defence in equipment and also in personnel. It makes political choices. This Defence Note has chosen to explicitly invest more in staff as well. That's very necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you. Thank you for coming to the Chamber.
