ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is Mrs Van Brenn's question on behalf of 50PLUS to the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water Management. I would also like to welcome her. The Secretary of State will replace the Minister. The question is about the message that the braking system of the scooter is dangerous. I call Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The scooter is the most dangerous means of transport in the Netherlands, according to the Kassa programme last Saturday. 50PLUS has been aware for some time that the number of accidents involving scooters is alarmingly high. We have requested that this be included in a study carried out by the Foundation for the Scientific Research on Road Safety. If it's okay, the results of this will come this month. The technique of the scooter carries risks. Most scooters have a combination of brake and gas systems; to brake, you have to release the gas trade at the wheel. According to traffic psychologist Gerard Tertoolen this is a dangerous technique, because people in panic situations have a reflex to squeeze rather than let go. But there is also evidence that the causes may be of a technical nature. It is very important to us that we know the cause of these many accidents. Of course we do not have to take all the scooters off the road, as happened with the stint, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State what she thinks of this report. Is she willing to sit down with suppliers to discuss this? Would she like to discuss with the Security Research Council whether they would like to include this in their investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Van Brenk for this question. I know the involvement of 50PLUS in the use of these scooters, the comments that are to be made about this and the concerns that exist. We are talking about a vulnerable group that must be able to move safely. On the other hand, a mobile scooter for many elderly and disabled people is also the only way to continue to participate in traffic. It is, of course, extremely important for people's social contacts that they can just get out there. Then, of course, it is very important that you ensure that those resources are safe. Like Mrs Van Brenk, we are seeing a worrying rise in the number of deaths among drivers of mopeds, scooters and other disabled vehicles. Because it is really a vulnerable group, there is also every reason to be very careful and careful about it. That is why we asked SWOV to carry out an in-depth investigation into motor vehicle accidents. Among other things, it looks at the results of SecurityNL and at explanations for the relatively high risk. That is what is absolutely being looked at. And the OVV also looks at all special vehicles, also specifically scooters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	Good to hear, because, indeed, with scooters per 100,000 users 15 to 22 times more dead than by bike. That's a hell of a lot. Safe Traffic The Netherlands made a warm plea at Kassa for learning how to handle the scootmobile. 50PLUS has already called for attention from the Minister. Now some suppliers put the scooter with a manual at someone's door and then they leave again. As far as we are concerned, a good explanation, a short course and some driving skills training to deal with it seem really desirable. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? Does it also see opportunities to promote this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Van Brenn is right to draw attention to more than just the technical specifications of the scooter itself. For example, it is also about the place on the road and the speed that can be driven with it. She also calls for attention to training. In some municipalities they are already offered and are part of the provision. We have asked SWOV and the RDW to give broad advice on the admission and use, but indeed also to look at things like speed and place on the road. I can imagine that training is also part of that application and that advice could be sought on it. I'll check with the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the willingness and also for the fact that she wants to take this with her to the Minister. In any case, that reassures us on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Then there is a question from Mr Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. It is important that everyone who goes on the road is ridiculed, including the elderly. Such a scooter also gives freedom and independence. You can finally move again. It is very nice that there is, but we are concerned about the number of accidents. Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS is right to draw attention to this. Can the Secretary of State address the question of whether this will also be taken into account, specifically the accidents, not only in the research that SWOV is going to do, but also in the strategic road safety plan that will be published this autumn?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u11	Does it also want to identify the causes of the accidents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u12	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u13	I think Mr Dijkstra is right to say that we need to look closely at all the reasons for addressing this group's road safety in a good way. Then we see that there are very different causes that cause an accident. It's always a vulnerable group. So then you always have the risk that the consequences are serious. Part of the accidents are caused by tilting. For some of the accidents there is a collision with someone else, there is a collision or a fault in operation. It is important to take all these points into account in the strategic plan. We are looking specifically at vulnerable participants, so also at this point. In the case of enquiries, Mrs Van Brenk's question is very soon answered that driving skills are indeed included in the opinion by SWOV. So all these points will come back to the discussion you are having with the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you.
