ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the debate on the decision of the Cabinet to reconsider the abolition of dividend taxation. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether this is a debate or rather a farewell reception. The farewell reception of the abolition of the dividend tax. Finally! A year ago, we debated this for the first time. The opposition has continued to insist and said: it is not going to happen; it is not going to happen. And yes, at last the cabinet has been wise enough not to abolish the dividend tax. It is a small miracle for someone who believed in the depths of his fibers that this measure was necessary, for a Prime Minister who said: no, we are not going to examine alternative measures, because we need to abolish the dividend tax. We asked the question: would you do this for one company, for Unilever? It was said: no, absolutely not; we are doing this for the location climate in the Netherlands. And we kept pushing, all of us, here in the opposition and in society: don't, don't, don't. And then it was Friday morning. I understand that when a text message or perhaps a phone call from Paul Polman came in with the message: "Unilever is not coming to Rotterdam." If struck by lightning, the Prime Minister had seen the light and said, "We're going to rethink it." In other words, we are not going to abolish the dividend tax. Mr President, I hope you will allow me, but I have some questions. What happened between that Thursday, when the Financial Reviews were here and our financial spokesmen were still here, and that Friday. What exactly was said that morning? The Prime Minister said it has nothing to do with Unilever. Then how does he explain that Unilever's decision has such far-reaching consequences? Another more important question is: doesn't the Prime Minister take a risk here that he shouldn't be taking a life-size risk? Because that's what he told the opposition: if you don't want to abolish the dividend tax, you take such a big risk; you can't actually do that. In other words, what problem has been solved? Has a social problem been solved? Or an economic problem? Or a VVD problem? Sometimes you see a little joy in the coalition and in the cabinet. Finally, we are done with the abolition of the dividend tax, thank God! Then we won't have to debate it anymore. But I'm telling you, the d-word has been exchanged for the w-word, the profit tax. For this cabinet seems wise to bring down the tax on profits even further. In total, more than EUR 4 billion will go towards reducing the tax on profits. 4 billion. That is about as much as we spend in the Netherlands on community care or on scientific education or on vocational education. Year by year, we're going to give that to those companies now. That's why the fight continues. You can say that this is the farewell reception of the abolition of the dividend tax, or the start of a new debate, about the tax on profits, because the principle behind it is ultimately exactly the same: companies that are in charge here in the Netherlands. So much money goes to business, while it should benefit society, education, care, the police, the climate. My question to the cabinet is: why are you putting the reduction of the profit tax already in the 2019 Tax Plan, when it only starts in 2020? You shouldn't have. Had it been left over the market so you could have used it in the negotiations on the climate agreement to get the industrial table to take steps. You shouldn't have. Now the House of Representatives has to decide in no time about so much money that you will send back to business. That is why I ask the cabinet: make sure that the tax reduction does not come into the 2019 Tax Plan. Give us another year to talk about this in peace, to see if this is wise. Do not go on another collision course with the opposition and with society. You're not gonna like it. Because if the coalition thought it was difficult to swallow the melon of the dividend tax, I wish them every success with the pineapple of the profit tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u4	Madam President. How the hell is it that the Prime Minister still dares to come here? That he still dares to show his face? There, in trade-K, is a politician who has long lost his political compass. There, in box-K, is the completed past tense. A prime minister who knocked himself out. Who for a year defended something that couldn't be defended. With lies about memos that didn't exist at first and then, and bullshit stories about the great importance of abolishing the dividend tax for the establishment climate. I can still hear the Prime Minister say, "If we don't do this, and I believe that to my deepest fibers, you're taking a risk with tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of potentially millions of jobs. And this coalition is simply not going to do that." Sweat stories. Lies. Deception. Scaring. Mr. Chairman. The knife of that political guillotine fell on Friday 5 October. It was, I believe, around seven o'clock in the morning when the total humiliation for Prime Minister Rutte arrived: a text from Paul Polman, the highest boss of his old employer Unilever. A text, how humiliating do you want it? And the message was, in my own words: I'm sorry, Mark, we're still staying in London; the country of the Brexit is much more attractive to our company than your Netherlands. And served, served, became the prime minister. Gone, his credibility. Gone, sweat stories. Gone, lies and deception. And away, abolishing the dividend tax. Only the Prime Minister himself is still there. And you'd think this Prime Minister would have learned from his blunder. That he will use the EUR 2 billion that is now being released for the ordinary Dutch, who have paid for the crisis. Over the last few years, they have received billions of burdens and cuts. Again faced with higher rents, a higher energy bill, a higher health insurance premium and immediately more expensive messages as VAT goes up. Those people, those people deserve priority now. 'Cause next year, they're gonna get kicked off again with a bump in purchasing power. At best. With if you're lucky a euro, one poor euro a day to increase purchasing power. And a lot of people are even looking at a fat, fat min. At the same time, corporate profits have doubled over the last 15 years, from 100 billion corporate profits in 2000 to 218 billion corporate profits last year. That's beautiful, and I'll give it to them. At the same time, however, the disposable income of that ordinary Dutchman hardly increased during the same period. It couldn't be much more unfair, could it? How does the Prime Minister manage to re-dedicate EUR 2 billion to multinationals? Again, in particular, to spend on multinationals? 'Cause he does. And not to the common Dutchman. Mr. Chairman. We have a much better proposal. Use that money to avoid the planned VAT increase on groceries. Everyone benefits from this: those who work, those who receive benefits, the elderly who have a pension. And yes, the small and medium-sized enterprises. And the majority of the Dutch want it. But no, Mr. Chairman. The indecent, the arrogance of power is infinite with Rutte. Once again, this 2 billion goes mainly to multinationals, to a lower income tax and to the expat scheme, which means that foreign workers still have to pay 30% less tax than Dutch workers. How do you make it up? It can't be described with a pen! Yesterday's package contains 750 million. That is three-quarters of a billion euros spent on making the foreign employee pay 30% less tax in 2019 and 2020 than the Dutch person who goes to work every day. How do you make up this madness? Mr. Chairman. This Prime Minister has to go. I say that on behalf of a lot, perhaps millions, of Dutch people. And even if I have to file another 100 motions of censure to achieve that, I won't let that happen. Not even today. This Prime Minister listens in particular to the lobbyists of his multinational friends and does not care about the ordinary man, the ordinary woman, the ordinary Dutchman, who he lies to and abandons over and over again. Billions go to Africa, to Brussels and to companies, and a bummer or nothing at all to the ordinary Dutchman. Shame on you, Mr. Rutte, for those choices. The Netherlands has had enough of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u6	Mr. Chairman. We're taking an irresponsible risk. That was what Prime Minister Rutte threw at us because we didn't want to abolish the dividend tax for a year. For a year, this Prime Minister wouldn't listen. Not to the representatives of the people, not to experts, not to economists, not to his own officials and, perhaps the worst, not to all those Dutch people who were appealing to him for a year: be a prime minister for all the Dutch. And now, a year later, the Prime Minister sees what the rest of the Netherlands, of course, knew a long time ago: this is not good. Because when Unilever broke up with the Prime Minister via a text message, the world suddenly looked very different. To abolish the dividend tax, to take an irresponsible risk if we do not, it became a test case for this Prime Minister with little support. Has the Prime Minister suddenly converted after one night, or has he spent a year in the Netherlands, when he said that this measure was not about one company? Mr. Chairman. The abolition of the dividend tax is then finally off the table, and that is, of course, a good thing. But unfortunately we cannot say here today 'end well, all well', because the Netherlands is shabby. This parliament has been dishonored. Two general considerations, two financial considerations, hundreds of written questions and countless debates, over and over again we have put forward arguments as to why it is a really bad idea to transfer EUR 2 billion to foreign shareholders. This Prime Minister put the credibility of himself and of his cabinet at risk for his own personal prestige project. Why are these high-ranking gentlemen of the multinationals actually being blinded in taxi vans, so I saw myself in photos entering the Catshuis, but is society at this Prime Minister's door? What exactly was discussed with those high-ranking gentlemen last Thursday, I would like to know from the Prime Minister. Now this cabinet shamelessly presents the billion-dollar gift for the big money again, only with another gift paper around it. Who's gonna fall for that? Society's money is given away to keep a race down, because that's what happens. During my life, the tax, the income tax, has already been more than halved for companies. The profits of companies are exploding, but in the meantime they are paying less and less of a share of our society and that does not work. And then what might be the worst. After a year of discussion and a year of resistance from society, the bullet is finally through the church. Prime Minister Rutte is withdrawing his miserable plan. This would have been the opportunity for this Prime Minister to restore his credibility somewhat by making it clear that he has really listened to society and realizes that this money should not be given to large companies through another gift, but should be invested where it belongs: in society. But he and his cabinet are holding on rigidly. This billion-dollar gift certificate must and will go to the companies, and I am very sorry about that. Mr. Chairman. It's time to make other choices. It's time for justice. Time to stop letting multinationals dictate us and sacrifice everything on the altar of quick profits for some at the top. We need to invest in what we are good at and what we can be proud of in our country. In all those small entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized enterprises, who are the engine of our economy. But of course also in our education, in care and culture. Because that makes our country at least as attractive to establish you here. We must give more power to the workers, who make all these companies big and successful. We can do it all, but then we need a prime minister who is not the errand boy of the powerful at the top, but who wants to be the prime minister of all the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u7	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u8	Mr. Chairman. "An illusionist as Prime Minister, you shouldn't want that," Bert Wagendorp wrote in the Volkskrant on 8 October. I think this is where Wagendorp hits the nail on the head. This minister first casts a measure out of his high hat, the abolition of the dividend tax, because it is so good for the locational environment. Then he gambled and lost. He spent a year trying to defend his one measure against the cliffs on substantive grounds, but even his most loyal party lieutenants, I see one sitting there, found that it was ultimately a gamble. And in the end, the Prime Minister also spoke of a bizarre measure that you sometimes have to take. In short, it was a bizarre gamble. And, as it turned out from answers to our questions, an event without precedent. A prime minister who carries out a measure he thinks is bizarre. If it had been up to that Prime Minister, it would have gone on. And he wasn't deaf to the sounds of society either. It was actually much worse: he heard them, but he chose not to consider them important enough. In the end, to be at the mercy of the very decisions of those shareholders he was trying to seduce. Mr. Chairman. Gambling and lost. This is also the image that ultimately lingers: not only that of a pebble in his own words "crawler" but also that of a little boy who jumps from one shaky ice-scotch to another, hoping not to fall and save the body. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of ice floes, this Prime Minister is gambling with much more, namely the climate. Gambling, because its climate policy in practice is slowing down rather than accelerating. The Urgenda pronunciation speaks for itself. Gambling, because in his view the climate policy lacks the post unexpectedly, while it turns out to be so large as to be witnessed by the reports of the IPCC, for example. But also gambling, because he seems to assume that a 3°C world actually works, which his Shell friends are trying to convince him of. Mr. Chairman. Our call today is: stop gambling. That is the main message. Leaving the dividend tax intact is an excellent opportunity for this, especially if we can now talk about a genuinely good location policy, which is sustainable and provides broad prosperity. In that case, we need to strengthen the social climate of establishment rather than the fiscal environment. Because that presents itself as a race to the bottom. The government's argument that corporation tax in the Netherlands is above the average in Europe is in fact unproven. This is true of the official tariffs, but we all have about 4,000 rulings in the Netherlands, especially for large companies, and then there could be a very different picture of effective corporate tax. But, yeah, we don't know that. So we can't check the cabinet's claim. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I can see him nodding, so I'm sure he'll go into that. Mr. Chairman. A climate-friendly and social locational environment requires the annual dividend tax revenues to be used for tax greening, for example for protein transition and investment in sustainable education. That seems to be the way forward. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. This Prime Minister has gambled and lost with his old, outdated industrial policy and now continues to gamble with the climate. This is downright insulting to this generation and to future generations. In view of their interests, we are looking forward to a response to our idea of using dividend tax revenues for the social establishment environment, which benefits and serves climate improvement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u10	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet would be there for the ordinary Dutch. This cabinet was going to do something about cynicism about politics. What did they see? A cabinet that maintains for a year that the dividend tax should be abolished. A cabinet that drives some kind of crook's car to the ATM of the Tower. A cabinet that is led by a prime minister who here in this House of Representatives has used very big words instead of barring at a VVD meeting, but here in this House of Representatives. "The dividend tax must be abolished, otherwise the Brexit will make companies disappear." That argument lasted until there was a text message from Paul Polman. "The dividend tax must be abolished, otherwise companies will be easily taken over." That argument lasted until Paul Polman's text. "The dividend tax must be abolished, otherwise we will take an unacceptable risk with the structure of the Dutch economy." It was thrown at me and several people here. That argument was valid until a text came from Paul Polman. "You take irresponsible risks with millions of Dutch jobs," was said in the House of Representatives, until a text message came from Paul Polman. Mr. Chairman. We see a prime minister driving his cabinet on a concrete wall, parking the car in it, getting out of the car and saying: yes, collecting scratches is part of my job. It's absurd. Next time, who cares about the Prime Minister's words that something is necessary or of national importance, if you know that this is a matter of national importance until Paul Polman's text message? I have the following questions for the Prime Minister. 1. How does he think he handled this? 2. How's he gonna restore confidence? What kind of apology is he going to make to the House of Representatives and to the people behind it for abusing big words, which normally make a big impression? If the Prime Minister says "this must be done, because it is of national interest; it is not popular, but it is good for you," it must be valid longer than the next text from Paul Polman. Mr. Chairman. How do we proceed now? The Labour Party is pleased that the dividend tax is not being abolished, but we want an open debate on what is now the best we can do. It is EUR 1.9 billion. Those foreign shareholders don't have to complain. The companies do not have to complain either. The question is: what is best for our locational climate? I would really like to make a compelling plea for a broader view than in this microworld of the VVD programme. Yesterday I was in Sliedrecht at primary school De Wilgen and then in Rotterdam at the Bavorkring. I was invited by a teacher I had met at the teacher strike, at the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam, Kristel. She showed me how they do their work there, with how much love and how much passion, and how she sometimes feels at the end of the day to fail, because they are too few teachers and because the pressure is too high. She said: this is about our future, the future of those children and our shared future. Mr. Chairman. That is not only in Rotterdam and in Sliedrecht; that is also in Zaanstad, where children are sent home. There's a shortage of 11,000 teachers. My plea would be: listen to those business people who say "put it into education; that is much more important for our locational environment." Listen to Aegon's top lady who made that plea of the week. Listen to all those who say: a country needs more than a climate of establishment; a country is so much more than that. A real risk to the structure of our economy is if our children do not get the education they need. Then really look at the location climate. Spend the money on education, safety and care. Then it's locational climate factors that help us all. 1.9 billion, now is the time; spend it well in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u11	Thank you. Mr Wilders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u12	I fully agree with many of what Mr Asscher has said about the analysis and the failure of the Prime Minister, but I do wonder. Mr Asscher chose to spend that money in education, for example. Well, you can blame the cabinet a lot. I do, too. But I don't think they don't give money to education. What they do do, however, is the citizens, if they are lucky, actually ship off with a crumb, including the PvdA voter, who has paid for the crisis and who has also been given the burden increases and those reversals. Why does the Labour Party, for example with the PVV, not choose to use that money, for example, in order not to allow the VAT increase to continue? Isn't that also a measure that benefits people much more than what the cabinet now chooses?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u13	I think that is a very fair question. I think we can do both. In the counter-budget made by the Labour Party with GroenLinks and the SP, there will be extra money for the public sector and for education but also for care. We're halving our own risk, but we're also saying that this VAT increase doesn't have to go through. If you don't give that huge gift to the big companies, you can cancel the VAT increase. This is better for low-income people, which is better for the elderly, but it is also better for small and medium-sized enterprises. The hairdresser's worried about that. If you really want to help those small businesses, you have to delete that measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u14	Nevertheless, all those people who have paid for the crisis, over the past 15 years, out of those 15% of economic growth, what is it? One or two percent have been paid and companies have seen their profits double since the turn of the century. Then why don't you choose to give that 2 billion to that citizen's income in any way? He thinks, "Am I going to be next? I get that rent increase again and the health insurance premium increases again." And so on and so on. Why does the Labour Party not now choose to spend that money in any way on the purchasing power of the people who are currently having the hardest?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u15	This is a wonderful invitation to tell us a little more about the counter-budget. We propose to increase this tax on profits from 25% to 27%. What makes that possible? Among other things, halving one's own risk. This directly benefits the wallet of many Dutch people. What makes it possible? Investing in the public sector. What makes it possible? Deletion of the VAT increase. But what makes it possible? The austerity on the rent allowance, which this cabinet wants to implement, "a bizarre measure', to quote the Prime Minister, is deleted. In fact, there is extra money to build affordable homes, because people need to be sure of a nice home. In other words, we really will not agree on everything. That would be too confusing for the viewers too, but at this point we can find each other: the ordinary Dutchman has to make progress and he now sees that the Tower has turned into an ATM for the big companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u16	And yet... Once again, I am not saying that to consciously increase differences, but the Dutchman who is now watching television or listening to this debate on the Internet or in any other way does not understand why the Labour Party, which should be there for the people in the country, is now choosing to return the 2 billion, apart from all the earlier proposals you have made, which I believe is best not to give back to that citizen now. You'd say every two billion has been taken away for the ordinary men and women. Your cabinet, the part of Rutte II for which you were responsible as Minister of Social Affairs, also reduced the purchasing power of that Dutchman or at least improved less than planned, because there were burdens and reversals. Is it not the Labour Party which, despite everything in your counter-budget, should now say: that 2 billion of the dividend tax is now going, whatever we have proposed, towards purchasing power for ordinary people? That's what you should do. Yeah, you don't have to do anything, but I don't understand why you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u17	I think that, precisely because we have had difficult years and because there is money now, it is extremely frustrating and it is not really justified that the cabinet chooses to spend that huge bag of money in this way: 4 billion goes into reducing the tax on profits and 3 billion out of those 4 billion goes to the big companies. The ordinary Dutchman who is watching television now wants his children to have a good school and not to be sent home because there is no teacher. He doesn't want that high own risk, he doesn't want to be faced with a cut in the rent payment and he doesn't want to pay higher VAT, but he wants more money in the wallet. That is exactly what we are proposing. It's possible. We had that processed. The Central Planning Office has looked into it. You can make a completely different choice than this cabinet does. I call on the cabinet: be open to that, turn on that conversation and don't start again over outstretched hands...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u19	In the meantime, if you keep filling the ATM in a back room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I am going to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u21	Madam President. It's very exceptional when there's "whore!" is called for if a tax is not abolished. But that's what's going on now. I can assure you that the SGP Group also likes to join in the choir of the whore-callers, because we have already put it forward before. We saw the arguments for abolishing the dividend tax thinning, while the price tag that was attached to it got higher. I think that Unilever's decision not to move to the Netherlands after the agony of the debates we had here was the punishment for this measure. As far as we are concerned, it is a good thing that it is off the table. It is a good thing that this discussion can end. But the question is: how else? In this context, I would like to emphasise that it is not natural for our group to say: oh, here is a pot of money and that money must be spent. We could ask ourselves, also in the light of the opinion of the Council of State, whether, in times of economic improvement, you cannot further improve public finances. I would like to draw the attention of the cabinet to this, even if there are hopefully some new windfalls in the future. Let us not say too easily: there is money and we can spend it. That remains an important point of view. However, I do not want to argue today that the measures that the cabinet has now come up with should be taken away from the table again. If we look at the business environment and when we look at the burdens that companies had to bear in economically less times, while they are an important engine of our economy, while they provide jobs and, while they provide the money we spend here again, we are right to think that instead of these ugly melons today there is a fresh fruit basket with separate measures to strengthen that business location climate, not only the large but also the smaller ones. This could remove the pain points, such as bringing the 30% regulation to an abrupt conclusion, which we had called for attention to be given to. And the measure concerning directors-major shareholders has also rightly been softened. Those were points of concern in the current plans that we had previously raised. We are grateful that something is being done about this. All these measures are discussed further in the Tax Plan, but I would like to say today, in view of the main thrust of what is ahead, that we think this is an important step in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. There's still something going on. If we look at what is happening in the overall picture for businesses, for citizens and for families, we still find that the tax burden for a earner is still at a very high level, while yesterday we even received a letter from the Minister of Social Affairs saying: oh yes, those purchasing power figures for 2018 were not true for the sole earners, because it is not 0.1% in the plus, but 0.3% in the minus. Hopefully that will be really different for 2019 and we will not get a correction for that. And hopefully the Stoffer/Bruins/Omtzigt motion, which received a majority in the Chamber in May this year, will also be implemented in the coming months and we will have a plan for how in the future something can be done about this point of pain. Mr President, that is my first contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u22	I listened very carefully to Mr Van der Staaij. He indicates that the money could also be used in other ways. I indicated in my contribution that it might be wise not to include the reduction of the tax on profits in this Tax Plan. That gives us another year to discuss with the Chamber what is the best way to spend that money. This is possible, because the measures will not start until 2020. How does Mr Van der Staaij view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u23	I think it is a valid point that Mr Klaver raises. We still want to weigh that carefully in this debate. On the other hand, however, I can also imagine that, if you want to strengthen the locational environment, it will benefit companies in terms of clarity over the longer term. They are not there, as we see now, every time a measure that either continues or changes. A lot of companies are tired of fickleness. We were just talking about the directors-major shareholders. That's where it's changed every time. So we would like to consider the importance of legal certainty and clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u24	I very much agree with that, because I think that is very important for the locational environment. For example, the tax reduction is now controversial, so let's see how we could reach a consensus on what is good for the locational environment. Then we are not quick to implement measures that might have to be reversed after March. So I am very curious how the SGP will weigh this. How's she gonna look at this? Are there not just some things from this package that we should not deal with in the 2019 Tax Plan, but only in the 2020 Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u25	If, in this debate with Mr Klaver and others, I find that there is more room to do something for the single earner, then perhaps I would be able to seduce a little in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u26	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u27	I'm always willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u28	Well. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u29	Madam President. When Unilever withdrew the proposal to establish its headquarters in the Netherlands, a big cheering rose in politics in The Hague. No one seemed to be worried about this message, which ultimately means that one of the largest companies in our country is taking a first step towards leaving this country. I do have that concern, because such a large company alone employs many thousands of SMEs around it and creates a multitude of jobs. The concern for the jobs of many ordinary Dutch people has always been the reason for my support for the abolition of the dividend tax. After all this, this is still the reason for the CDA to remain committed to a strong business environment. I have been surprised by the disgust of some of the business colleagues, even today. The money should not go to businesses, but to people and to society, said both colleague Klaver and colleague Wilders, quite brotherly. Others have joined in. It seems as if entrepreneurs are not people, as if companies are not part of our society and as if this coalition is not investing many billions in the public sector and in reducing the burden on citizens; a multitude of the amount that we are talking about today. For the opposition from the left to the right, companies are apparently nothing but big slulops that make people's lives miserable. The CDA doesn't see it that way. Large and small businesses account for three-quarters of our employment. That awareness in this Chamber will be gone in no time, I find worrying. Because we can't spend a euro until we've earned it first. That is why this coalition in today's uncertain world chooses to strengthen the business environment. The Netherlands has a strong economy. In terms of population, we are the 66th in the world, but in terms of economy, we are the 17th. And it's not gonna happen by itself. But because we have that, we can spend those billions on care, education and other facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u30	I would suggest that Mr Van Haersma Buma conclude his speech. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u31	I think Mr Van Haersma Buma would like to hear my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u32	Well, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u33	You're looking at me now. I'd really like to hear the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u34	Yes, but I'd like you to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u35	I'll follow the chairman. I will conclude my speech. Last week I went to work in Eindhoven, at the Brainport. Today's Brainport is built on the Philips of the past. That old Philips was Eindhoven. A straight line ran from Frits Philips to work for hundreds of thousands via the Philips Relaxation Centre and the Philips Sports Association. The new economy in that Brainport is different. Philips has withdrawn into the medical sector and there are new companies such as NXP, ASML and Signify. That's anonymous abbreviations for a lot of people. There is no Frits NXP and there is no ASML football association, but there are 6,000 SMEs that depend directly or indirectly on these companies. That's the new world. Are those big roads? Are the big ones sick? Are the big colds? It'll make SMEs sick. This intertwinedness has been neglected in the discussion here in the Chamber. Only if politics and companies understand each other again and formulate a common goal for the Netherlands of tomorrow will we be invincible and then we can strengthen our society. I therefore call on the opposition not to turn against companies, but to understand that this is where the money is being earned that will ultimately allow us to continue to pay for our care, our safety and our education for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u36	Mr. Chairman. This is a sham contradiction. The point is that everyone, citizens and businesses, has to pay a decent tax. Does Mr Buma think that the tax on profits is so high that he is now proposing to reduce it to the point of his own election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u37	Yes. Firstly, because the choice you made in the counter-budgets of GroenLinks, SP and PvdA, 2 billion net additional taxes for citizens, is a very bad one. That's one. That's what you're actually doing. You're saying something else now, but that's what you did. Two: we have seen that in today's uncertain world, business is important. If we take this measure, which has a value of about EUR 2 billion, we will end up with a reduction in the burden of EUR 1 billion for businesses. For citizens, we are doing EUR 6 billion and additional expenditure, with the exception of care, EUR 8 billion. That's what I call a very sensible division.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u38	In the election programme of the VVD the profit tax remains 25%, in that of the CDA it goes to 23%. Now it's at 20%. So that's something completely different from what you're saying here. We see someone here who said: I would not be able to explain it to my children if we did not abolish the dividend tax; I would agree again today; very big words. Question one is, do you take back any of those big words or do you ride quietly with Rutte against that concrete wall? Two: no one is here against these companies, only they have to pay a decent tax and there is more that determines the locational climate than the tax. Does Mr Buma not agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u39	That's a lot of questions, but when I look at the big companies, I've only heard negative questions about them. I say about these companies: it's not fun, but we need them, because three-quarters of the Dutch earn their living in business. Yes, I am therefore very much in favour of a reduction in the burden, although modest. If we don't do this one, you're gonna go for a weight increase. Our election programme included a less significant reduction in corporate tax. That's a mutual agreement. I have to tell you, I can carry that. We've talked about the dividend tax before. It wasn't in our election program either. I said earlier that in the summer of 2017 it looked like very large companies were being taken over. There was an acute problem and that is why we took that measure. I'm telling you, we took it. We took these for those companies. I'm disappointed by Unilever's choice. I didn't hear about that. But I see the reality and I think we have a very careful, wide and good package in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u40	Finally. Mr Buma just keeps repeating himself, saying that he is the only one who stands up for the companies, that he is the only one who understands the jobs, that all the other parties are wrong, but these arguments were also valid until Paul Polman's text, because now he is no longer advocating abolishing the dividend tax, so it is nothing at all. You make proposals again that were not in your election programme, or that of any of the other coalition parties. You're going first in the race to the bottom to lower and lower income tax. That is bad; bad for Europe, bad for the Netherlands, bad for our locational climate. That has nothing to do with employment. They are bad measures, and you are not open to the criticism that has been justified before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u41	Mr Asscher is now saying that lowering taxes is bad for the climate of establishment, but that is good for the climate of establishment. We can like it or not, but the world has changed. Keeping a company in the Netherlands, we do so in a global market where all kinds of other countries also think: it's nice to have companies with us. Really, your choice leads companies to leave. When big companies leave, the small ones don't have jobs. That's a responsibility I'm not gonna take. That's why I'm glad the CDA is in this coalition and not the PvdA. As I said before, the Labour Party uses fine words here, but increases citizens' taxes by more than EUR 2 billion. That's in the Centraal Planning Bureau's billing of your own counter-budget. You are indeed spending a great deal of money on the old Labour Party. I say that very simply: I like that and this coalition also invests billions, but we must not forget that all the billions we spend must be earned first. If we don't, we'll have to look at Greece. That keeps spending when it doesn't come in. I'm not going that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u42	Mr Azarkan is in line with the previous point and I have another point, so perhaps...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u43	Did you guys take care of that? Then Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Buma uses dangerous rhetoric, as my colleague Mr Asscher just said. He's creating a false contradiction. I think that is really dangerous, because that hatred of, and perhaps also mild hatred of, the opposition. I have not heard anyone from the opposition say that the climate of establishment is not important. The point was that 2 billion, money from the Dutch citizens, was spent on something that a lot of people said: we cannot prove to be able to control. We've asked you a few times. Hundreds of questions have been asked. The answer was the same every time. I actually think that Mr Buma should take back the story he just told when he blamed the opposition for not standing for the interests of companies. I think that's really dangerous. My question is now, Mr President. It's two-and-a-half. Mr Buma keeps the same story as grab him three quarters of a year ago, so why don't you stick to abolishing the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u45	That's a lot of announcements with a lot of questions. The first question was whether or not this package would be good for business. You say that we are also very good for business. But both SMEs and VNO-NCW and individual companies have said that this package is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u46	No, SMEs did not say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u47	Then you'll have to rewind yesterday's footage. I do not know what package you are coming up with, but I maintain that, if we want strong companies in the Netherlands for the future, we must also give them the space to undertake, for our society. You are now using the word "evidence" in my direction. It is nice that someone from DENK creates another reproach contradictions, but well, it is not a contradiction. You make it a contradiction when you yell: we shouldn't be doing business, we should be giving citizens less tax. That's what I said. That is as if businesses are not run by citizens or not very many citizens work there. A lot of people are proud to go to companies, big companies, small businesses, in north and south and east and west every day. That's what we do for those people. That is why we ensure that in an uncertain world the Netherlands is ready for a future with strong companies. They will ensure that we can continue to finance our public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u48	Mr Buma is not going to answer my question at all. I'll put it again briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u49	They were different questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u50	I'll be brief. If you are so convinced, and you are, of the measure of the dividend tax, he comes back to mind; the memory is getting a little bit less, why don't you stick to that abolition? What's changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u51	Mr Azarkan must make that last point, but I would just like to say that he asked several questions. I was trying to answer a question you asked. Then you can say that I did not answer the question. That is all very nice in such a debate, but I just answered one question, only you asked three. Now I'm going to answer another of your questions. I'd be happy to. I mentioned the reason why I advocated the abolition of the dividend tax, namely that we need very large companies for the future of our country. I keep saying the same thing when I say for a year: it's a tragedy if those companies were to leave. In fact, if they leave, I think you'll be the first to stand here calling cabinet and coalition to account. But what changed? Last Friday, Unilever said that that decision is still uncertain. Well, I was pretty quick to believe that under those circumstances, continuing with this measure was a dead end. Then I am prepared to do so, and I think that a politician should also see that there is a new reality. Then the search in that reality is: how can we make a package that is still as good as possible for the business environment? These may be other companies or a little bit the same, but companies. And we did. So I'm in favour of that package, too. So it's not one thing or the other, but the world changed after that Friday. I think a politician should be prepared to make other choices in that other world. No one said that, but you all thought it would take months again; it was, I believe, two meetings that we all had together as a coalition. Why? Because this coalition knew very well what she wanted. This coalition wants to ensure that people working at a company in the Netherlands have a certain future. And that's why we're doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u52	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u53	I really don't understand it anymore. We have heard stories from Mr Buma about hundreds of thousands of jobs and about the future of the Netherlands and the future of the entrepreneurial environment in the Netherlands. And now he says quite honestly: it was really just Unilever. Because Unilever, one company, says "we are not coming," Mr Buma says: then the world has changed. Then where are all these other companies? If you believe in a locational climate, then those other companies are staying away because Unilever isn't coming? That's a weak story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u54	This is exactly the risk that there is indeed, the risk that other companies will go. There is. At the same time, I think quite honestly that if on that morning I did not quickly rise to believe that we should make another choice, you would be standing here saying that it was ridiculous that we had left those measures in place. And you have to be honest about that yourself. I am convinced that, in those circumstances, it would be a dead end to move forward, not one-on-one because of that decision, but because of the circumstances and the discussion we had for a year. That is not a decision I welcome, but I know I have to take it because it is the most sensible one. Then, in my view, you can only do one thing: the tax relief that existed for business in a package with a lot of burden relief for citizens and even more spending is still going to that business. Otherwise, I would have even found it wrong. Well, that's the package we put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u55	As a member of the opposition, I would like to say that business is important and that it makes an important contribution, but I do wonder whether Mr Buma realizes that the place No. 6 that we take on the world ranking as an economy, at the expense of 3.4 globes. Is Mr Buma aware that this is in no way sustainable and sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u56	Place No 16 and not place No. 6. We just talked about Unilever. Paul Polman is different from those who run other companies in other countries, very aware that that company has such an impact on ecology and that he therefore needs to take more steps than shareholders might want. Shell's last investment this month, is in a sustainable division here in The Hague. AkzoNobel and DSM are leading the search for other sources of plastic production for chemical products. I don't know if if these companies were in America, look at Esso and what happens there, they'd be just as good at that. With the Party for Animals, the solution is always possible, but I do say that once the companies from the Netherlands are gone, this is good for the climate. I am convinced that if we bully these companies out of the Netherlands and they're out of here and in other countries, without seeing what they're doing and without participating in our climate tables, they'll do a lot more bad things for the environment. And that's why I'm standing in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u57	Mr Buma says that we see these companies leaving; that is nonsense. Maybe we can make an exception for Shell, but maybe that's the only one. That spot 16 can't be sustained if you look at the seizure that's taking place on the world. My question to Mr Buma is very simple: is he prepared to see if we can spend the 2 billion, which is released annually, on precisely those companies that are reducing that herd, perhaps Unilever will be there instead of a generic reduction, such as the reduction of corporation tax, so that it applies to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u58	I am referring to one sentence by Mr Van Raan about which he may have been a bit dutiful, as seems afterwards. He said: we are not against business at all. He said something like that. Next he says: place 16 on the world ranking list cannot be sustained; the Netherlands can lower a bit. Do you really think that this will reduce production in the world? It goes to other countries. One of the reasons I stand for this kind of company being in the Netherlands and making decisions here is that I still have a little hope that in this country, more than in a country like America and even more than in England, which has other problems, there is thought about social enterprise, dealing with your employees and dealing with the environment. You want Shell gone, but I prefer it here. Do you know how many ordinary Dutch people work at Shell or a company that depends on Shell and participate in Shell's search for new energy? You're way off base.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u59	Finally, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u60	And here we recognize Mr Buma as the old world politician he is, because he makes the mistake and continues to make the mistake that growth, coupled with CO emissions, can be maintained. There has to be a decoupling; then you can have a completely different conversation about the economy. But apparently Mr Buma is not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u61	I'm gonna try it one more time in my answer. "Pest Shell Gone from The Netherlands" is something other than "Pest Shell Gone from The World." I can't, the company goes to another country. It's not like that company is gonna think, "Mr. Van Raan wants to keep us away," so we're just gonna stop making oil. Either Shell is going to do it somewhere else, or it's being taken over by companies that understand even less that the energy supply needs to change in the future. So, because of the jobs, because of the strength of the company and because of the position we still have there, I much prefer a company like Shell or Unilever, with all the SMEs around it. I just mentioned my visit to Eindhoven: 6,000 SMEs around NXP, ASML and Signify. I want to keep all these companies. I am convinced that if we have a little self-confidence in this country, we will be able to consult with these companies and that we will be able to involve them in our energy transition, in our change. So I would rather have them here than be pressed on the buttons in other countries, where shareholder interests are even more important and the public interest is much less important. I also think that the opposition that should be proud of this country, namely that we are able to have normal talks with those companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u62	For the sake of clarity, however, what has been the event that changed Mr Buma's mind? First he was in favour of abolishing the dividend tax and now he's against it. What exactly was the turning point? He's talking about a changing world, but what exactly has been the change that made him change his mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u63	I would like to say it again, but I have said it very precisely twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u64	Then you have the chance to say it for a third time. What a lovely afternoon it must be for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u65	Yes, and I'm glad you're here; at least that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u66	We have looked into it for a moment: I have done six times as many plenary debates as you have done in the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u67	And dressed, too! That's the best part. Mr. Chairman. I am going to answer the question for the third time and my answer is exactly like the second time before. On Friday, 5 October, it was quite clear to me that a decision that I thought was intrinsically sensible would not be sustainable here at all, it would not survive. So I'm willing to come here and say: we're going to make another choice, but we're going to make the best possible choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u68	So you are still in favour of abolishing the dividend tax? Just because there's no more majority in the Chamber doesn't mean you're gonna change your mind? Is that a correct summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u69	No, because circumstances have changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u70	And those circumstances are that there is no majority left in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u71	Also, but I also said it was the changing circumstance that a company like Unilever said on that day: the sure choice, or rather certain choice for the Netherlands is not so sure. Then I can add up and I just think it's the job as a politician to see what the other playing field is like. And then I'm just glad that after that we made a package with the coalition that I dare say we should be proud of. The risk I find, and I still think... I don't know if you can see that, but let's say we just talked about it. Shell disappears, suppose Unilever disappears, others disappear. That risk is still there, which is why I said I was so surprised that everyone was so happy that day. Basically, I'm just repeating my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u72	No, no, if you finish your point, you'll have the opportunity to finish. Were you ready, Mr. Buma?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u73	Well, I was done for a while because I'd said it before. But I would like to repeat it again if the next question is about the same thing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u74	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u75	So there are two different things. First I hear Mr Buma say: there is another majority in the Chamber. Then I hear him say: no, it's because of Unilever's decision. What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u76	I think I've said from the beginning that this is it. It's not separate from each other, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u77	Yeah, of course I do. In the second case, you make an autonomous assessment of your own position on the basis of a decision of a multinational. Otherwise, you will say: I am still in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. Only, there's no room for majority anymore, so I'll change my position. It's one or the other and it's not possible to find both of those things at the same time. Then you contradict yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u78	Well, you can do that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u79	No matter how well dressed you are in your own eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u80	Thank you. I can confirm that, but we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u81	I was struck by Mr Buma's answer, that he said: yes, that Friday morning I actually changed the button, I am in favour of abolishing the dividend tax, but the button went right after the text, which we heard later. I don't understand that, but it'll come later in the discussion. When you finally turned the switch and decided to make a new choice, did you consider also yesterday in the Cabinet Council thinking about reducing the burden on the citizen? You have now cleared the dividend tax resources. Is it not quite understandable, because that is also good for business, for SMEs, that there will be an additional tax reduction for everyone? Moreover, next year there will still be an increase of 850 million for families. Have you considered that? That's my question. And why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u82	Then I'll come back to what I said earlier. There will be a tax reduction of EUR 6 billion, for families, single people, for citizens. That's what we agreed. I think that's very important too. We have also agreed as a coalition that EUR 8 billion will go to health, safety and education. And we have agreed that an amount of not more than EUR 1 billion net, as it is called, will go to business. I'm holding on to that because I think that's wise. Then you can say: no, we are doing this 2 billion to citizens, so only raise taxes for business by EUR 1 billion at this time. I think that is completely irresponsible and why do I think that is irresponsible? Because the world around us is very uncertain. And because I believe that we as politicians should not just be the coalition, we should not stand for a contradiction between citizens and society and, on the one hand, entrepreneurs and businesses. But citizens work in businesses, earn their money with them, pay taxes, and so we can again finance care, education and safety. Make the money first, then spend the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u83	I hear now that the tax burden on business would have to be increased. If we do more for citizens' income tax, it is not the case that otherwise the tax on business will rise. That tax cut won't happen. Those last two points are off. So you have to make it right. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u84	Well, no, I do not entirely agree with you, because don't forget that in the green atmosphere there are a number of significant tax increases for business. It's not blank at all. I understand that discussion. But don't forget that for me the entire coalition agreement is here. It was also about the coalition agreement with all choices. One of these choices is that companies are going to pay much more for a number of polluting things. We have said of this: somewhere we have to give it back to business, in a different way. And we will. So that balance isn't that big at all. If you say now that you do not want to give it back, then you are definitely opting for a tax increase for business. And then we all say: we love Dutch business so much, they should stay above all. It can't be both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u85	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u86	Abolishing the dividend tax........................................................................................................................................................................................... A levy on the shareholder's income tax will then lapse. In other words, the dividend tax is not a business tax. The dividend tax is not a corporation tax. If you do not abolish the dividend tax, you will have 2 billion. And then you should not say: business will be dealt with. Because the corporate tax cut, it stays. We want you to spend the EUR 2 billion that has been released on reducing the burden on citizens. That's my question. The dividend tax has nothing to do with corporation tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u87	You already said that, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u88	It is true what you say about where the tax is levied, Mr. Van Rooijen. But you're not talking about the effect of that tax. And that's what it's all about, of course. In the choice we make, I keep repeating it, it's about having a business that can generate jobs for the Netherlands in the future. The abolition of the dividend tax makes it possible for companies to stay here, pay taxes and so on, and so on. If they still leave, we will lose EUR 1 billion in income because the dividend tax will not be introduced, as you know. What did the coalition, and therefore the CDA, say? If we burden the business with a problem in choosing to stay here, then we need to look within the complex of companies, even if they may be other companies, at how we can keep companies here. There is a package that is very sensible for large and small businesses. The 30% scheme has already been mentioned, but there are more. So I'm really asking you to look at it with a look from someone who realizes it, and you're doing that that we in the Netherlands have to make our money before we can spend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u89	You may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u90	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Do you recognize, Mr Van Haersma Buma, that what is most affected by not abolishing is the foreign treasury, especially America's? Do you recognize that? It has nothing to do with corporate tax. The biggest victim of yesterday's decision is the treasury in America. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u91	No, because that's the start of the discussion. The biggest victim, if there is one, is ourselves. It's just a choice we don't do it anymore. But if there's a victim, that's this society, because we're suddenly looking at companies disappearing. Then you'll be standing here and you'll say, "How could you do it?" That is why there was this measure. I just recognize that after what happened, we're making another choice. I don't mind admitting that at all. In fact, I think it's wise to do that. But I still say: the preservation of companies in the Netherlands, big or small, is essential for the ability to pay for care, education and safety in the future. I see the Prime Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u92	I listened very carefully to Mr Buma's speech and I thought he was rather brutal. For a year, the coalition has taken us to task here. We would take irresponsible risks, not with a few marbles but with the structure of our economy. We'd put them on the line, wouldn't we? In the event that the dividend tax would not be abolished. Mr Buma himself says here today: I do, in the end, recognise that it was a dead end. Does it then fit today, Mr Buma, to take the opposition's measure here, to put us here in the mouth that we would not consider companies important? Mr Buma, I haven't heard anyone here throughout the Chamber argue that we wouldn't consider companies, jobs, the locational climate to be important. The question is: at what price? That question is on the table today. I would also like to return to Mr Polman's text. You indicate: I realized that it was a dead end. Do you not find it a little embarrassing that it has been argued here for a year that it would not be for one company?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u93	Yes, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u94	No, it would be about the structure of our economy, for that it would be necessary. One company decides differently and you say: well, you're right, it's a dead end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u95	This is somewhat a repetition of questions, because I have already answered this question in exactly the same way as Mr Azarkan. I believe that Mr Baudet also had questions in this direction. Surely it is quite obvious, even to me, that on the day a company says it will not stay, the playing field changes? That's what a kid sees. I can see that, too. And so the playing field changes and I'm in on that change. The question that comes next is: are we saying that business is actually less important? Do we make a distinction and say: we do call for companies to be important, but we do nothing for them and instead we have a completely different category, namely society? I still say, even after that day, that we must ensure that we have a strong business in the Netherlands. Therefore, these measures. We need to ensure a strong public sector. That's what we invest in. We invest in burden relief for citizens. But one thing, I also say to you: you have to earn your euros, in the Netherlands, with companies, before you can spend them on a charity like safety, care or education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u96	The same riedel again from Mr. Buma, a riedel that we heard just now. He creates a contradiction that isn't there. But my question was: isn't it embarrassing, I think, that it is because, on the basis of the decision of one company, and after one text, you say about something you've defended for a year, down to the fibers, "otherwise we would take irresponsible risks with the structure of the economy": yes, it's a dead end, changed circumstances, we're going to do it differently, aren't we? What image do you think this evokes of you and this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u97	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u98	Don't you have any idea that people at home are right to think that this cabinet runs the lead of multinationals? Only one multinational, Unilever...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u99	If anyone here is creating footage, it is now Mrs. Marijnissen. The choices are here. The reason for these choices lies in the world, in the circumstances that change. I'm going to say it for the 75th time now, but I'd like to do the same for you. On the day that it turned out that that company changed its choice, it was clear to me first of all that if we have a debate here where the coalition says "we're going on" the entire opposition says "you have to stop." I also exchanged this with Mr Baudet. Secondly, the playing field is changing. The playing field changes so that we can see much better where we can generate certainty if it is uncertain here. The fact that companies are threatening to leave, something that is still hanging over the market, is a very big problem for all of us. You walk too easily over that. You are all going too easily to spend EUR 2 billion and forget that for the structure of this country it will do something if the companies do not have it anymore and if the place where three-quarters of the Dutch earn their living risks weakening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u100	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u101	What an embarrassment. Mr Buma says that the Unilever decision here in the Chamber would no longer make the abolition of the dividend tax sustainable. Mr Buma, I would like to point out that for a year the entire opposition has pointed out to you and your cabinet that this is not a good idea, that it belongs to society and not to foreign shareholders. We do not need a decision by one company. That was you. You argued that it was necessary, if it were, then the headquarters would stay here, if that would be good for the location climate. And you just got the lid on the nose. It would be a pleasure for you to acknowledge that, instead of constantly taking our measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u102	I do hear all these gratuitous statements, but they do not change my deep conviction about the measures we need to take to ensure that we have jobs in the Netherlands in the future. You can't, like too many parties here, constantly shout "business is so nice" when if that business wants tax cuts, just like citizens are basically citizens to be able to keep doing business in this country in the future, the whole Chamber says: no, we're very happy with you, but don't come to The Hague to ask for anything. My thesis is a different one. This isn't about the companies. This is about the people who work at those companies. Well, at least one party here just says it doesn't matter if Shell leaves. That's the biggest company we have here! A world player. But they don't care. Go somewhere else. So I'm very different in that. Not because it's Shell or because the company has its head office in The Hague. But because many ordinary Dutch people work there. And because many, many, thousands, small and medium-sized companies, start-ups, service providers, thanks to these kinds of companies together make the strength of the Netherlands. You can't compensate for that by spending a lot of money on other sectors, because you have to earn the money first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u103	I see Mr Asscher, I see Mr Van Rooijen. You've both just been discussed extensively. So I give the opportunity to ask a short question, and not the same question again in different forms. That's what I keep seeing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u104	When we spoke about it in September, Mr Buma proudly said that he was prepared to take unpopular measures with the coalition, even if the opposition did not agree. What exactly has changed in that regard by Unilever's decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u105	I believe that your suggestion was not to ask the same question again, but I have answered this question many times. What has changed because of that decision is that it has become clear that a company, which we all thought could stay in the Netherlands, has made a choice that in my view is bad for the Netherlands. The chances that the company would stay in the Netherlands were even very high; I mentioned that as a serious assessment. Nothing has changed. The fact that they have made a different choice makes it absolutely clear to me throughout this whole range of choices that it is completely unsustainable to continue with this measure to abolish dividend tax. So we are moving on to other measures, that is what I think is very important in that palette that ensures that companies, big and small, have a good business environment in the Netherlands. So I really think: it is the question that has been asked before with the answer given earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u106	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u107	The reason that question is repeated is because it does not come up with an honest answer. You can't say it's a dead end in the Chamber if it doesn't change that majority of the House. That is why we continue to repeat that question. You're not giving it an honest answer. You said in September: if we do not go through with this, abolishing the dividend tax, companies from the Netherlands will leave; that is what I stand for, even if it is unpopular. Unilever's decision hasn't changed anything. So it's really two-and-a-half. Baudet was right about that. Either something has changed in the majority of the House, or it's nice if you tell us that or it's something else. But then that whole tough argument for this is that you see it all better than we do, not worth a damn. So an honest answer is: either the majority of the House is gone or you withdraw your big words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u108	I'm going to answer that question, but I'm going to say it quite honestly, because that's how I'm gonna be: if the colleague is gonna take me to honesty, then we're gonna go to a level that I'm not here for. I stand here for the more honest, precise story of what I've done. You may agree with that or not, but dishonesty I cast far from me, and also from you; you know this. I've said before that my assessment was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u109	Why do I say that? Because you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u110	I don't want to know why you say that at all; you say it, and it's not true. It may be that you... I am looking very hard for the answer that I can give, because apparently the reason you immediately accuse me of being dishonest is that you read that I said: there will be another majority in the Chamber. I have said, however, that 'this debate is going to be completely different from'. But I think you want to read that the majority is changing. The next question is who has undoubtedly changed their minds in the coalition. None of that is true at all. But we all know about each other, and this debate doesn't have to take so long that the day after that decision I said that several times this afternoon the whole dividend tax package changed and that we are looking for another measure. The two things I really disagree with you about are as follows. First of all, the cheer that rose the day the company said it would go away and they said we have 2 billion to spend. There's the difference. There's not just two billion to spend. If we think that, we might as well spend 10 billion, or 20. We have made choices here in this country, with a lot going to businesses but much more to the citizens and much more to the government. You want that to be different, but I find that structuralally unwise, because we must continue to make money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u111	You may respond briefly to this. Then I will go to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u112	Why am I asking that question? Because Mr Buma says here: there was an unsustainable situation; the road was dead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u113	No. I didn't use that word. That was Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u114	You used it, but it doesn't matter. You said that text from Paul Polman, because of Unilever's decision, would have made it impossible to abolish the dividend tax. I appeal to you to do so, because all these times you have said very proudly: we are making unpopular decisions, but it is good for the national interest. That country's interest hadn't changed. I call you on that. I don't think that's strong. That makes all these big words about what the opposition is doing wrong less credible. You just have to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u115	No, I'm really total, really, really...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u116	You've made your point, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u117	We disagree here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u118	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u119	I understand the debate, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u120	Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u121	Just for a minute and then you can...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u122	...this is the same question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u123	Sure. You will have the opportunity to respond. Finally, really finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u124	Finally. There's no one who was going to cheer because of Unilever's decision. No one at all. I'd rather they come here. When they were planning on doing that here, I was before that. I just always thought it was nonsense to use that as the only argument for this very expensive measure. You defended that, with very big words about 2 million jobs. That didn't turn out to be true. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u125	You've made your point, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u126	But then there is the question: if you want that company or other companies to stay I said before: it's not so much about a company with a name; it's about the names around it, the companies around it and the jobs around it - are you as a Labour Party or are you taking measures to ensure that they stay? Mr Nijboer is already shaking his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u127	No, he's not in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u128	No, because you want corporate taxation to rise, which is also an important factor. I keep saying to the opposition that you cannot keep saying: we love business, but we are going to increase taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u129	Mr. Buma, you made your point, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u130	That is a communication with a consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u131	Mr Van Rooijen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u132	You also said earlier that Friday morning the switch was already turned on by you. What I don't understand is... Or let me put it another way: have you considered it yourself, even in a coalition context, to stand for it anyway? If you did, why didn't that lead to the decision being enforced? Was there division within the coalition, because some others with melons and such thought "that becomes untenable" and so did you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u133	A brief response, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u134	That's the answer I gave. So the answer to your question is no. I don't know what others are considering, but I'm not talking about the coalition right now, I'm talking about the trade-off I made. I think it is perfectly logical that that morning there was a new situation that led to a new decision. If you all agree afterwards that this measure should be returned with the dividend tax, you can try. I think it's good what we're doing now, given the circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u135	This is also what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u136	But what I absolutely don't understand is that when you got that message, so I understood that I immediately turned the switch, so we have to go to something else. I don't understand that if you've spent a whole year defending it with so much paint. I imagine after a week of thinking, you might say, "Maybe we shouldn't do it." But what you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u137	This question has also been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u138	About that Friday morning, I don't understand. So there must have been something special, apart from Unilever, that has led you to the conclusion: let us stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u139	Yeah, it just is. I can see when it's wise to make other choices. I think we've been hired as politicians to see that, too. That's what we're here for. That's our professionalism. You can ask me not to say to the world: I'm going to think for a week if we do. The Prime Minister was right to say that we are going to reconsider the measure, because we must first look at what we are doing. But that that measure would not be reliving on another was for me, and I suppose for you as well, clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u140	No, Mr. Van Rooijen, no repetition of questions, because this is just gonna be a round again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u141	No, I've got something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u142	Anything else? Well, I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u143	Mr Buma now says: rethinking did not mean reconsidering this decision, but opting for something else. I thought that was off the table. It wasn't rethinking. You said "rethink means we're going to choose something else," but you and the cabinet may also reconsider sticking to the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u144	Yes, but I think I have just said, the whole debate, that I myself was talking about me and not about others, at least that conclusion had already been drawn...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u145	You're not going to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u146	... and that I think it is very sensible to reconsider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u147	Mr. Klaver. Another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u148	This has been about what happened that Friday for an hour. I don't want to go back to that Friday. The next question is central. The opposition has in fact always said that this measure is being taken with the dividend tax for one company, Unilever. That has always been contradicted by the cabinet, by the coalition and Mr. Buma perhaps first. The dividend tax finally came into the government agreement after discussions with Paul Polman and went out after a text message from Paul Polman. Does Mr Buma maintain that the dividend tax, both its abolition and the withdrawal of this measure, had nothing to do with Unilever?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u149	Both are not true, by the way. I just don't like those theories that don't add up. It is true that the introduction of this measure, i.e. the introduction of the abolition, literally had everything I have always said here as a reason. It was an assessment that was broader than those companies. Those companies are the first and the biggest. They're so big right now that I'm still thinking, how can you even hear you talk about it so easily, so "let them go"? You'll say, "That's not what I'm talking about." No, but you don't want to do anything for it either. Those companies can leave. Then I'll come back to the same question every time. I can only answer that question because I realized very clearly that that morning, with everything that happened in that year, it is completely pointless to continue with a measure that was dead at that time, socially, given the circumstances, given the choices and given that we might be able to add that to the coalition to build another package that is also good for business, for establishment and for jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u150	I don't care what day it happened. The question I ask is very simple. This is about why the cabinet is taking certain measures. The dividend tax was actually............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u151	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u152	It's good to admit that now. If that is not the case, then it remains strange that this is taken out of the coalition agreement following a text message from Paul Polman. This is precisely the lack of clarity. That is why we are being asked about this and that is why, to be quite honest, this is becoming such an ugly debate, because no one in the Netherlands really believes that this is not the case. It's not even bad, but at least admit it: the dividend tax was meant for Unilever, to see if the head office could stay here. Be honest about that. At the moment Unilever said it keeps its dual structure and stays in the United Kingdom and in the Netherlands, any justification fell away. That's when you made that decision. So it was Unilever and not the location climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u153	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u154	I am going to say: I do not know why, but Mr Klaver is now doing the same thing as Mr Asscher. He sits down in honesty and I do not think he can, because then we have no debate. So everything I'm saying is pointless, because that's not fair. Then you're done, because Mr. Klaver keeps saying, "Buma can scream, but it's not true." It's true. I said it all and I said it transparently. I have said what the recital was, I have said that there are more companies and I have mentioned in previous debates other companies, which you may have forgotten. I'm not going to repeat it, but there are more companies that this applies to. It could have meant that companies might come to the Netherlands. That could be all in this palette. What you're saying is just not true. I'm not saying you're unfair. You do this to me; I do not do that to you, but it is false.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u155	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u156	No, I observe that inconsistency in Mr Buma's reasoning. I remind him of that and then he finds it annoying. Mr Buma referred earlier to other companies with a dual structure, such as Shell. That company is still here; that is still relevant. The moment you say that the abolition of the dividend tax was done for such companies but that it is not done anymore, you have forgotten all those other companies and you only choose Unilever. In other words, Mr Buma's arguments throughout the year for abolishing the dividend tax were not sustainable. It was about keeping one company here. I'm afraid that didn't work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u157	I'm just having a really hard time drawing this as a conclusion. Yeah, then you can wave again that that's not true. I'm saying it's not true. You can only say, "Buma, I don't believe you; you're lying." That's just not true. So I really think it is crazy that this debate ends with all parties saying: Buma is not fair. This is not the way to have a debate in this house, because it is about trying to say what really happened. That's what I'm trying to do, transparent, as transparent as possible. I've said everything in those trade-offs. Then you can say forever: what Buma says is not true. What Buma says is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u158	This is the same discussion as Mr Asscher, exactly the same discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u159	I agree, but the questions are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u160	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u161	That's what Mr. Buma makes of it. We are exchanging arguments here. This is not about "yes, but I'm honest and that's why you can't ask any more questions." The question is why the dividend tax should not now be abolished and what its effect on Shell is. Mr Buma said earlier: this will have major consequences, not only for Unilever, but also for Shell; that is a risk I do not want to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u162	Yeah, that's the big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u163	Then he'll take the risk. Mr Buma does not go into that further. That's what I'm pointing out. That has nothing to do with fair or unfair, but with inconsistencies. Mr Buma does not go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u164	I am prepared to answer many questions, but officially I have also said that there is a risk and that I think that is a very serious problem. That is what I said in the debate. I think that the question is now a little bit whether the opposition wants to listen or merely make statements. For me, a debate is real: listening, listening, debating. I'm serious. My point is that we have made the choice, knowing that this entails major risks. That is why I am so surprised at the ease with which the opposition says: oh, it is one company or those other companies do not matter. Then I am surprised at the ease with which it is said: well, other companies, we love them, but they should not think that we are going to do anything for them. It has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u165	Mr. Azarkan. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u166	Short, Mr. Chairman. Can Mr Buma honestly tell us what, in addition to Unilever's choice, was the consideration of calling it non-sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u167	They may ask those questions, but I have already answered that question from Mr Azarkan. If you ask him, I'm gonna answer him...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u168	It's a problem, though, this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u169	...but with my height. 'Cause I'd like to tell the normal story. But that question has already come 50 times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u170	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u171	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u172	I'm just gonna answer again, because I don't want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u173	We don't keep...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u174	I'm not repeating my question. Mr Buma has rightly said: I have said a few times that I did not think it was sustainable anymore. My question is very simple: why did Mr Buma no longer consider the measure to be sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u175	And of that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u176	I want to tell you for the 20th time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u177	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u178	I will, because you allow the question. I think I should have the opportunity to say again what the reason was. After the decision on the dividend tax and all the discussion that was about it, we talked about that on that Friday it turned out that a company that had a lot to do, absolutely not the only thing, said: we do not know whether we will stay in the Netherlands. I think I said earlier in this debate that it was quite clear to me that, under these circumstances and in everything that had happened, it would certainly not be possible to carry on with this measure. In fact, as I said earlier this day, I am able to say: no, we need to look quickly at what is then good for the business environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u179	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u180	Not this, because you can't, but something else. That's what we made. And that has become this package. So you can blame me for everything, but I really hope that we will have this debate in such a way that, when I say something, people are prepared to give the impression at least...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u181	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u182	...that people have the impression that I'm giving the answer honestly. I find that the most uncomfortable of this debate so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u183	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u184	Thank you for the honest answer. The conclusion is that the dividend tax was not made for Unilever, but that Unilever was subject to certain or the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u185	No, that's what politics decides. And then I'm gonna give you the answers again, because this is another thesis that doesn't make any sense. Throughout the whole palette of what had happened, I knew that the risk is also there for other companies; that is not away, that's just what happened. I was convinced that that measure would not be sustainable. And so I don't. In fact, I'm willing to look at what's good for business with this coalition pretty quickly. Why business? Because of the jobs attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u186	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u187	Okay, one more time. So if there had been a majority in the Chamber, including the CDA, for the abolition of the dividend tax, you would still be in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. Correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u188	No. No, not again. I told you I didn't have that opinion. So the CDA would never hold on to the dividend tax, would it? Then I'll come back to the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u189	So you've always been against abolishing the dividend tax? Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u190	Then I'll come back...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u191	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u192	Mr President, I will come back. I'm just gonna say it again. On that morning it appeared that an important company, but not the only one, told the outside world: we are not staying permanently in the Netherlands. With everything that had happened and this, it was absolutely clear to me that this package was not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u194	Because we knew that, we made another package. That other package we're discussing right now. In my view, that is what I hope Mr Baudet will be able to support, as well as good for business, good for jobs and therefore good for the future of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u195	Thank you. I propose that the sitting be suspended until 7.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u196	We will continue with the debate on the government's decision to reconsider the abolition of dividend taxation. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u197	Thank you, Mr President. The coalition agreement contained a clear paragraph with clear measures on the locational climate to try, against a background of the Brexit and other uncertainties, to prevent large companies from leaving our country and to encourage them to come. The VVD was very satisfied with the measure to abolish the dividend tax. We certainly stood for that. We didn't think it would guarantee that those companies would stay; we thought it would have value for the Netherlands if they stayed. I still hope they stay, and of course they still can. We didn't say they were leaving either. But we also felt that we should make an extreme effort towards that type of company. I still think it matters whether you have a lot of good companies in the Netherlands or have a lot of good companies in the Netherlands and also a number of players who are known all over the world, who make your scholarship bigger than you would expect from such a small country and who can attract other companies, which still have to settle down. They can do that in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, even that extreme, very targeted measure did not add enough force to reduce that risk at the first time it was tested. At first, it looked hopeful. Unilever was the first company to say: that measure does matter and it helps us in the decision to come to Rotterdam. But it didn't turn out to be enough. Then you have to reconsider, because you still have the same risks. So we still have one now. The review is not: are these other companies why it would go, then not important? Because the risk is: does the investment you make in a particular measure still outweigh it; is that still the best way to promote your business environment, your business environment, when one of the very visible test cases, top prices, which you would have liked to guarantee for the Netherlands, is withdrawn? There is still a high risk that these companies will go. I still hope they will stay, but they will have to do without the abolition of the dividend tax. The risk is therefore greater that companies do not come or that companies leave. I think it is wise that we have reconsidered the spending of the 1.9 billion, which is now at stake. We're going to see how you make the most of it, even with the risk of large companies leaving, to optimize your business and business environment. We are now making a larger investment in the middle segment, including in SMEs, in strengthening the backbone of the economy we also have. We do have a rather higher risk that those visible, large companies that have the choice, will make a different choice from the one in the Netherlands. That's gonna be a blow when that happens. This investment is aimed at being able to cope with this through other companies and through SMEs in the Netherlands, to make sure that our country is doing well and with the things we all want to do. This money, including this 1.9 billion, is in my view for people, for their jobs, so they have work. It is also an investment in the economy of the future, to have money for care, safety and education. I would guard against making this a false contradiction. I respect that people make different choices, but there is no contradiction between an entrepreneur and a teacher. This entrepreneur can't do much if the people he hires to help him haven't had a good education. And that teacher can't get his salary anywhere if we don't have an economy that runs very well, where we can pay for it. That contradiction sometimes seems to arise, and I would like to avoid it. You have to do it together. We have to earn it together and then we can see how we spend it together. But you also have to look forward together and not just at the short term. For me, there is no fundamental difference between hard work in care, in a company, in the police or in your own business. All these people are covered in the coalition agreement. We are talking about one subject, but the coalition agreement is broad and balanced. Billions are being invested in the public sector, billions are being allocated to reduce taxes on all paid workers. And a little less billions, but still billions, are now being used to ease the burden on entrepreneurs. In this way, they can continue to undertake, invest, take on people and make money, now and in the future, for all of us and therefore for our care, our education and our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u199	I'd like to go, too. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u200	You look so inviting, so everyone's walking to the interrupting microphone right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u201	I've been through my time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u202	Mr Dijkhoff reworded the word 'test'. We've heard the coalition use the word "testcase" in the last few days. Earlier, Mr Dijkhoff referred to the abolition of the dividend tax as a 'gap'. How do you look at this yourself? Don't you find it a little painful yourself, perhaps, that that gambling or testing happened at 2 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u203	No, because we're not doing that right now. It's not like they're gone. We've been trying to make a well-founded assessment. How can you reduce the risk of leaving that is damaging to the economy? We even wanted to do this with a very targeted measure. Then you hope that will have a positive effect. This could still have a positive effect on other companies, but of course it is less likely if you see the first time the scenario is happening that even abolishing the dividend tax has apparently not worked convincingly in the areas of shareholders who have to vote to stay. It was an attempt, and I still agree that we risked it. But of course, you'll have to reconsider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u204	"Rethink" is last week's word. Mr Buma indicated that he realized at the time of Unilever's decision that it would not be sustainable. I believe those were exactly his words here in the Chamber. Was Unilever's decision with the analysis that it is no longer sustainable, even for you the exact moment to reconsider?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u205	"Sustainable" is a complicated term, because it can affect many things. As the measure goes, you realize that there is a lot at stake. I've never put that under chairs or couches. When these companies leave, the risks to the economy are severe. But the measure we proposed did not guarantee that this would not happen. So you have to weigh risks and opportunities every time compared to the cost of the measure: 1.9 billion. When the measure became more expensive in the summer due to fantastic, fine economic developments, I thought about whether this was still sensible. I came to the conclusion: yes! If you then see that one of the potentially most visible companies that you would have liked to keep with that, at least it won't convince yourself, then you're going to think again. Is it 1.9 for the rest that still has to come? Given the effect, is it the way it happened at the first time it became concrete still the most sensible investment in the business location environment or are there alternatives? Gradually thinking and sparring in the group we came to the conclusion that you have alternatives that, in this case after the negotiation, are better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u206	Mr Dijkhoff is actually doing the same thing here as Mr Buma. He does not want to say explicitly that Unilever's decision led to the review. But if I listen carefully to you and to Mr Buma, that is exactly what you are saying. That's weird, isn't it? We spent hours here in the Chamber. It would first cost 1.4 billion, then 1.6 billion and then 2 billion. You said that was no reason to reconsider. The investigation that would show that the abolition of the dividend tax would work well proved to be paid by Shell. But that was no reason to reconsider. All the resistance in society was no reason to reconsider it. The coalition even let the king speak recently: the dividend tax will be abolished. And now we're here. That's very painful for you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u207	No, it's not, because I don't think I'm so important in this whole game. Look, then you should've stuck to that measure stubbornly. I have always said that it is a measure to reduce the risk of misery and to increase the chance of good things, such as the arrival of new businesses. If there are factors taking place in the outside world that influence that probability, you have to weigh that up again as a wise politician and driver. You shouldn't be too big for that and say: it's painful if I have to make another decision. Then you should see what is best for the Netherlands from now on. I think that the political pain of the period before that is the least interesting, because it is about what is the best thing for the Netherlands from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u208	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u209	I think it is the big words used here, not only by our Prime Minister, who accused us of taking irresponsible risks, but also by the entire coalition. Despite all the resistance, he said this was necessary. Despite all the resistance, you held on to "this is necessary" until the day Mr Polman's text came. I blame you and the cabinet for that. You are playing with this with the confidence that people have in democracy, in the parliament, and that is a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u210	I think Mrs Marijnissen knows quite frankly that I am not in this way. I also understand that she is saying this now, because that is how it works here, but she can assume that I have genuinely defended that measure in order to limit the disadvantages that threatened it. It's not like someone's texting and saying, "Stop it." The thing is, you're making the ultimate effort. If you see that this doesn't work and it doesn't have the effect you hoped for, then you shouldn't keep giving the medicine but try something else. We have now discussed a nice package, but that is also driven from now on. I still find it deeply miserable that we are now at greater risk than before that the company does not opt for a head office in the Netherlands. I still hope so, but it will have to do without this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u211	I am curious to see how Mr Dijkhoff views how the Prime Minister has done this in the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u212	Yes, Mr Asscher may be curious about that. But I'm not gonna give you a review here, am I? How the Prime Minister did it? Well, excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u213	You are a member of parliament and control the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u214	Yeah, but I don't review. I'm checking what the Cabinet is doing, and I supported it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u215	I'm not asking for a review either. The suit and everything is in order, but I'm asking how you judge the way the Prime Minister did this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u216	As an auditor of the cabinet, I have no further value judgment on that. We've discussed every step of the way here and talked about it. The measure was in the coalition agreement. So you ask me more for a review than for something in the controlling atmosphere of the Chamber. We have discussed this in previous debates. I did say something about it back then. That just stays there. I don't really need to repeat that and do it all over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u217	Mr Dijkhoff says here: I have always seen it as a risk weight, I have sometimes called it a gamble and I still regret it. But the Prime Minister said here: it is an unacceptable risk to the structure of the economy if you do not do as I say. The Prime Minister said you're playing with 2 million jobs. The Prime Minister said: I am taking this unpopular measure because it is in the national interest. Apparently, that's what he decided. That is why I ask you: how do you judge it now that, after one text, those very big words were withdrawn? That is not a question of a review, which I would like to hear from you another time, but in your opinion. Did he do this right? Should he do this in your eyes the same way next time? Or is there room for improvement? I ask the question very politely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u218	Very constructive, yes, great. I think it makes sense. I also thought it was an unacceptable risk not to make an extreme effort, not to see what you can do to reduce the risk and keep it for the Netherlands. Then the final weighting, which I think the Prime Minister himself said in his press conference on Friday, is that you should not go through with it if you see that the attempt you are taking is not going to have the desired effect. That's different than saying in advance that you shouldn't even try that whole thing. That's what I thought was the less sensible choice when you look at the risks we ran and the opportunities we have and had.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u219	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u220	Yes, Chairman, closing. The Prime Minister wasn't talking about trying, weighing up the odds and maybe doing this or something. There was a motion by Klaver, supported by the entire opposition up to and including Van der Staaij, who asked to see if you could not make a better attempt. But it happened through a text from Polman. I find it very significant that this coalition, after having spent a year working on this attempt, still does not realise that it might not have been so strong and convenient. You didn't test it. You didn't try it out. No, there was a text message and you pulled it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u221	Yeah, 'cause that text made the whole risk weight different. The idea is that by abolishing the dividend tax, there is a good chance that the company's proposal to move the whole to Rotterdam will be supported by a majority of shareholders. But if you see that disappear, then that's a fundamental change of the game. Then don't say stubbornly: we're gonna go through with it anyway. Then what are you gonna test it for? The text isn't "boys," forget it. The text message is a communication that the proposal is withdrawn because it is estimated that it is not receiving enough support, even with the abolition of dividend taxation. I think that's a relevant fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u222	Mr Dijkhoff just told a story about risks, costs, revenues, potential and "trying to make an extreme effort." I'm really surprised. If the companies to which the dividend tax is applied say themselves that abolishing the dividend tax does not matter to them, then he does not believe it. But the moment he gets one experience, namely with Unilever, he says: now I believe it. We've been here all year. Experts have said it, too. What makes you do it on the basis of Mr Polman's call and not on the basis of what the experts say? After all, governance is also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u223	Experts don't talk for those companies. And there are companies for whom it doesn't matter, that's right. The day after we announced that we were going to reconsider, I saw another press release in which all sorts of companies suddenly reported that it does matter. It's a little late, but of course it matters to each company what factor it is. Therefore, this was not a generic wide-ranging investment in the establishment and business environment. The package has now become that. That's what we're doing now. I think that from now on is the best thing to do. But when we still had the chance and thought that we could also encourage that extra-category, those big companies that you might not expect in a small country like the Netherlands right away and not immediately at our fair, to make the choice for the Netherlands, I thought that was the best measure. If you then become clear that what we offered is not going to take the price and you see the price drop, then you have to see from that moment on whether that is still the wisest way to support the location climate. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u224	But for me, it's not clear what that was based on. Was that indeed based on the assessment: so many companies come with potential, so many companies are at risk, and that brings about this employment? That's what we've been asking about. And finally, Mr Dijkhoff said: it is still a gamble. I think that was just fair. But has there ever been such an exercise that has been written down: what are the risks, and to what extent do we do this? 'Cause you just told me that 500 million was a lot to me anyway. So can you tell me a little bit more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u225	Yeah, but I'm not a technocrat. And we're not all here. You have to be in politics, especially when you're on the administrative side of a coalition, eventually with limited information and limited predictions of what the world is doing around you, making choices, and that's what you have to stand for. But if the circumstances around you change and you think "from now on a different choice is better," then you shouldn't be too big to hold on to it out of stubbornness or political pride. That's how I see the work here. And that's how I see this story. There are cases where the whistle has expired: you make an assessment at once, which is completely complete. And here you need a change of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u226	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u227	My last question is this. Has Mr Dijkhoff also agreed on this in advance within the coalition or in any context: 'if Unilever is not coming, then we really need to reconsider whether we should do this'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u228	No, it didn't come up that explicitly in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u229	I think it is very good that Mr Dijkhoff says that you should not be stubborn in politics if it turns out that something is not working and that you should listen to good arguments. That's what we've been trying to do for a year. So Mr Dijkhoff was very stubborn when the House of Representatives brought in arguments, but not as stubborn as Unilever withdrew. The question is this. Why is this package now better than abolishing the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u230	First of all, I didn't have the impression that I was stubborn; I just wasn't convinced. I think I have always had a serious discussion, but I had other arguments. I still have them, but what is different about them now is my estimation of the likelihood that abolishing the dividend tax will really contribute and help. Look, I have nothing to do with abolishing the dividend tax and then being disappointed by a smaller number of votes. That's no good to me: it's all or nothing. So if these companies have to make their choice between Rotterdam or London or change both or nothing, then you want this to be the decisive push. It doesn't do me much good when they move, while more people would have liked it in the Netherlands. I see now that the measure in this first case has not had the effect I had hoped for. This also involved one of the visible main cases. We knew they were in favour of such a decision. You don't know about all the companies in the world they're thinking about, but you knew about this one. Then when you see that it does not have the effect you had hoped for, I think, as I just said, that it does not make much sense to abolish the dividend tax and then just don't make it. Then you'll have to make it. And I'm afraid my assessment is that it's not as convincing as I thought it would be. There are other factors in the game in voting behaviour, which makes it not working out well. Then you better brace for impact. And if the decisions still get out of hand, I hope not, and we are not counting on that either, then you can cope with that with your economy. So you're going to strengthen other parts, such as the wider economy and also SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u231	I welcome Mr Dijkhoff's clear language, because he actually says that we did this for Unilever. That's what the words he's using show.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u232	Among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u233	"We did this for Unilever." We have all put forward arguments here as to why this should not work, not even for Unilever. What information did Mr Dijkhoff have in order to have confidence that the shareholders of Unilever would say: we are going to the Netherlands anyway? What information did Mr Dijkhoff have that we didn't have? None of the opposition in the Chamber had that information. I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u234	But that's why I said...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u235	May I speak for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u236	Yeah, but you're stacking up demand, so I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u237	Mr Dijkhoff. Or weren't you finished, Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u238	Well, I still have the same question: what about it? I just can't imagine it, Mr. Dijkhoff. What information did you have that we didn't have, that you had so much faith in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u239	Yes, that was your question, yes. Okay. We have already exchanged this in previous debates. Nothing else has changed. We have made a different assessment and I must honestly say that I do not see the arguments that were exchanged in the debate that they are now suddenly becoming a reality. There have been other cases. Unilever was one of the most visible companies. You know from a few companies that are already in the Netherlands that they are in favour of such a decision; you want to keep those companies here. Then you have companies that you don't know where to talk and are thinking; you want to be as attractive as possible. Things have changed in my assessment of the effect of that measure. That's not based on any other information you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u240	There's a new package. The basis for this, most of it, is to reduce the tax on profits. How will this contribute to a better locational environment? What benefit do we have over other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u241	Corporate tax is a factor in the choice for the country where you have to sit, just as infrastructure is a choice factor. If that tax is higher here, another country has a head start in that. But I also think this is a positive measure for the companies that are already operating here: they pay less tax and therefore have more of their turnover. They can invest that, they can assume people, they can grow that. If they hire people, they'll have to pay taxes on it again. In turn, we can pay for care, education and safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u242	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u243	I ask this because I would like to challenge Mr Dijkhoff to call me three neighbouring countries which have a lower tax on profits than the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u244	Have you read or heard from me any argument that it should be higher or lower?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u245	Yes, you just gave it to me. Mr Dijkhoff has just said that the lower your tax on profits, the more advantage you have over other countries. That's right, I hear him say. If we look closely around us, we can see that in Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg or France, for example, the tax on profits is many times higher than in the Netherlands. So we already had that advantage. I hear Mr Dijkhoff say that it is now getting bigger. If you make that advantage even greater in this way, you give away very expensive billions, which is not necessary, because the advantage was already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u246	That is also a fundamental difference. Mr. Klaver sees money in society as something from the government that you give away. This is being coughed up by entrepreneurs and we are taking less of it. That's tax, so "give away" is a separate one anyway. If you lower a tax, you say to someone: you work hard, you earn money and you have to pay less about it. We do this with all the Dutch, including all the people who work in care and education. They're all gonna have to pay less payroll taxes on what they've earned. I like that. That amount is also higher than what we do for companies. I said to Mr Klaver that this difference can help to stimulate businesses, but I also said earlier that this package is about more than just improving the locational environment. It also contributes to improving the business environment, as the entrepreneurs who are already in this area also benefit from it and are left with more money. They can decide for themselves what to do with that money: they can invest it, they can buy business from it, they can hire people from it. This also helps to further the economy. With everything an entrepreneur does, he knows he'll have to pay taxes sometime. We then use these tax revenues again for care, education and safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u247	In fact, I have the same question to Mr Dijkhoff as I asked Mr Buma earlier. It has already disappeared from the room, I see. It's happened before that I was in the room and he wasn't, unfortunately. Do I understand from Mr Dijkhoff that in fact the only event that has changed his assessment is not moving to the Netherlands from Unilever's headquarters? Is that what changed it all? Is that the only reason why his view is no longer the one he had before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u248	The withdrawal of the proposal to come to the Netherlands indicated that there was no confidence that it was supported. This means that there was a cross, not yet definitive, but in a causal connection with the measure.... by one of the most visible main prices to be achieved and which we wanted to bring in by abolishing the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u249	That's exactly the answer I expected to get. You say, "one of the top prizes." That is, of course, what it has always been about in the past year. They didn't want to admit that it was one specific company. They wouldn't admit it was just Unilever. But now you're actually saying it is. It was about the top prize: Unilever. And Unilever turned Rutte down. Is that correct? Is that a good summary of your words?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u250	No, but Mr Baudet also expected me to say that. So that seems consistent. I call it "one of the." That means it's not the only one. I've also reported you before...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u251	How many more top prizes were there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u252	No, wait a minute, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u253	Name another five companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u254	I have always indicated that we want to retain some of the companies that were in favour of this choice. Unilever and Shell are the most visible. They have also expressed their views on this in the course of the debates. Then there are companies that choose where to settle. This could have contributed to their choosing the Netherlands. This is also possible with the measures we are taking now. I don't know all these companies. You'll never know exactly if you'd been on that list and what factor it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u255	Then you've misjudged it, haven't you? Could you perhaps admit that you have misjudged it completely and that you had no idea what the shareholders of Unilever might or might not think was important, in short, that the VVD does not fully understand the business environment in the Netherlands and that entrepreneurs really do not understand it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u256	That's incorrect. It would also be strange to see that when you see how that whole process has gone to the proposal. A proposal is first made to move to Rotterdam. It is also said that the proposed abolition of the dividend tax is a significant factor. In retrospect, it is said that the uncertainty of this also plays a role. I think that as a company or as a shareholder, you should be able to deal with that, and you shouldn't take that into account. Anyway, they're not my words. I don't think it was entirely wrong, because you see it's a relevant factor in the weighting. He just wasn't decisive. And this is a fairly binary process. I have nothing to do with abolishing it so as not to make it with a smaller difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u257	But just a little more...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u258	This is really the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u259	This is very important for the history of this debate. According to the VVD, it was tens of thousands, perhaps millions of jobs. And you are now defending a measure, namely to stop the dividend tax, which could cost the Netherlands millions of jobs. If you really believed that earlier, you wouldn't be credible at all, would you? Either you were wrong before, and you did not properly assess the business environment, the location climate and so on. Okay, you can. Or you were right at the time, but then you just have to stand for it now. Then you must say: I am still in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. It's like what we got Buma on the screwwap just like that. He says "on the one hand," "on the other hand," "I don't know what to find" and so on. That twist! I think that's what people find most annoying about this whole affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u260	Either what Mr Baudet is saying is not a correct reflection of what I have put forward in debates here in the past. I never mentioned millions of jobs. It's nice, but it's getting more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u261	Tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u262	I don't think I've ever linked a few to it. Anyway, maybe you can check it out later, and you'll see that I didn't. I still believe that abolishing the dividend tax is not a bad measure. You're just not gonna build up an infinite supply of cover proposals and measures. I would also like to realize that 2% for the Defense Department. I want all sorts of things, such as even lower taxes on labour and even lower income tax. But you can't do everything at once. You have to choose. Choosing is scarcity. If I got that measure, I'd do it. Then I'd cancel the dividend tax tomorrow. Just because there are other circumstances, I am now making a different weighting, abolishing the weighting of the dividend tax by the 1.9 billion compared to what is now doing other things with it. Because of what happened and because that measure simply did not work at the first opportunity it should have worked, I think it would be wiser to do it in accordance with this package, rather than abolishing the dividend tax, which I still think is a good idea. I still do not rule out the fact that we will be back here in a few years' time because the dividend tax has come under even more legal pressure, that we will still have to abolish it and cover it. But we're not gonna do it now by political-administrative means. That is where we are taking other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u263	Thank you. Let me now give the floor... No, Mr Van Rooijen has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u264	Did I hear Mr Dijkhoff say that the burden relief for citizens is greater than that for business?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u265	Yes. You heard me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u266	I have here a table for myself from an annex to the development of the policy burden in the Netherlands. For next year, 2019, there will be an increase of 800 million. The next two years there is a plus and a minus that are equal to each other. So, on balance, over those three years, there will still be a burden increase of nearly 1 billion. However, with yesterday's measure, business is going to be zero and not an increase. It would be worse for the public than for business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u267	I think you've been comparing for several years now. Next year, the measures of this package will not all be implemented. If only it were one of those parties...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u268	No, you weren't listening. I do not blame you for that in this debate, but that is not the point. I just counted the three years together because you'd get a more honest picture. For the citizens, it is almost 1 billion heavier, and business, with yesterday's measures, comes to zero. At first that would have been an increase, but with yesterday's extra measures it is zero. I can show you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u269	I always think everyone's calculations are fantastic, and I also believe they're right. Only that's why, fortunately, we have mathematicians apart from ourselves and we don't have to make our own sums. I will simply pass on the whole package of measures from the coalition agreement. There is a substantial reduction in the burden on labour. Everyone's just got more pay in their pockets. That's what's gonna happen. At companies we have both burdens and reliefs. On balance, it is lower than it is for citizens, if I simply pass on the effects of the whole measure. We're not living in one, two or three years, I'm taking responsibility for the measures we're taking right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u270	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u271	Perhaps Mr Dijkhoff means otherwise, but I have only read out what is in front of the accounts in the annex to the million-dollar note. Those aren't figures from me or 50PLUS or anyone else. It's right here. If you look at it at once, you can come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u272	I'm fine with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u273	They're government figures, not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u274	Okay. But you do add up for a number of years. You choose a number of years to add up, while I simply take the view that the effects of the entire coalition agreement are being passed on and that the coalition agreement is being adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u275	Thank you. Mr. Van Rooijen, it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u276	It's not clear, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u277	You're handing it over for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u278	These are figures from a transfer to the end of the cabinet period until 2021. So those are the effects of 2019, 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u279	Sure. But the decisions we are making now, of course, will continue to work longer unless, after an election victory, you would reverse all the burden relief that we are now planning. So I would like to be dealt with on the effects of the decisions I make in this cabinet period, and not just on the effects they have in that cabinet period, because then we would all be running very short term. That seems like the worst thing we can do for the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u280	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is there anyone in this room who still believes Rutte? I don't see anyone lighting up their had. Is there any of the viewers at home that this Prime Minister still trusts? Is there anyone who can follow this Prime Minister at all? Because what has this Prime Minister done? Following the outbreak of the crisis in 2008, this Prime Minister cut down tens of billions on society and the public sector. The taxes went up, nursing homes were repaired by him, the students he pushed the antisocial loan system down the throat and the own risk increases just as quickly as DENK in the polls. Rutte has tormented people and thus aggravated the crisis. Irresponsible and unwise, as many economists said. And what was Rutte's message when he saw all that suffering? He laughed and he told people to bite through the sour apple to help the country out of the crisis. We had to hope and wait for better times. Mr. Chairman. In 2017, the better times broke out. All the signals were on green again; there was something to divide. And then Rutte got a little nervous. What am I supposed to do with all that money, you heard him think. Shall I give it to the sick, whom I have so severely suffered from the increase in the premium and the own risk? No, he thought, those sick, let them rot. Should I give it to pensioners who, under my rule, have seen their purchasing power fall by 10%? Of course not, they voted for Martin van Rooijen and Henk Krol. Should I give it to the students I took away their student funding? No way. Let those students get the Rambam. And after all these reflections, long nights of thinking and secret consultation with Unilever, he knew. The Prime Minister decided to give Unilever and Shell a $2 billion present. Not once, not twice, not three times. He decided to do that again every year. 'Cause Unilever's having a hard time. Take a look at Unilever's net profit: in 2013 5.2 billion, in 2014 5.5 billion, in 2015 5.2 billion, in 2016 5.5 billion and last year 6.4 billion. He quickly counted that up and came out at about 27 billion and 825 million. This type of multinational deserves a proverbial support, but in the form of billions of tax cuts. Don't believe his words, but check Rutte's budget. That has been the creed of multinationals for years, until the multinationals, whom he tried to spawn, dropped this prime minister like a brick. After all the trouble of Rutte and his dividend vassals to get through this, Unilever indicated: this dividend tax doesn't affect us, we don't come to the Netherlands at all. Those multinationals, which he worked so hard for, didn't stab him with a knife, but a whole class in his back. I suspect that the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union have said: we will go with you until Unilever makes his decision, but if Unilever does not come to the Netherlands then that abolition will no longer be sustainable. Like Buma just told me honestly. And then the question is, what did Rutte learn from this? The answer is nothing, nada, zero, njet, nothing. Because the same multinationals that dropped him like a brick are now just getting another gift from Rutte. There is no penny going to the public sector and, to the extent of disaster, Rutte shows signs of stockholm syndrome: he shows love for the big companies that are holding him hostage. I think it would be wise if this Prime Minister first visited a psychologist and then travelled to the European summit. Mr President, I come to my conclusion. This Prime Minister shows that he is not for the Dutch. This country deserves better. That is why my group is considering supporting the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u282	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u283	Mr. Chairman. Last week, and yesterday, a final line was finally reached on the proposal to abolish the dividend tax, a proposal which has been defended for so long and with so much freshness and which would supposedly strengthen the broad economic structure of the Netherlands. Well, we've seen it. The first reaction of an individual company immediately leads to the withdrawal of the proposal. As the Prime Minister almost said last week, the first test case did not come into being. Yesterday's letter shows that the rate of corporation tax is going much further down, but why did the cabinet propose it so much earlier? Reduction of profit tax is demonstrably more effective than abolishing the dividend tax, so what was the real reason for wasting so much political capital on dividend tax? I'm explicitly asking the Prime Minister, but I'm afraid we'll never find out. As we will never know whether the First Chamber would have rejected the proposal, should it have been adopted here. Interesting, if I may say so. Almost the whole of the Netherlands has already completed the subject of dividend taxation for more than six months. The story since the presentation of the coalition agreement is unprecedented, but the proposal is finally off the table. The alternative use is about what we expected, but certainly not what we had hoped and wished for. In any case, the money will not be used to clean up next year's cost increase for families of 800 million. I have just spoken about it in debate with Mr Dijkhoff. It is true that the rate reduction in income tax is higher than the VAT increase, but according to the Central Planning Bureau for next year there is a net charge increase for families in the 800 million books. All Members of Parliament of 50PLUS have been amazed at this. Surely it is not true that Mark Rutte and the VVD allow us to carry out a tax reform without lubricating oil, without a little bit of butter on the fish? I find it incredible that the Prime Minister did not take this opportunity to ride the burden increase for families. Gerrit Zalm gave us a good deal of money back in the previous reforms in 2001. Maybe our Prime Minister doesn't remember because he was still working at Unilever. That is why I would like to remind him of the fact that tax increases in fiscal reform years are highly unusual. I hope that individual VVD and CDA room members will support our earlier motion to get the EUR 800 million increase from next year off the table. Let dualism prevail! Of course 50PLUS had and has many priorities to which we would like to spend the money from the dividend tax. We have shown this clearly and clearly in our counter-budget. It is not close to the list that the cabinet came up with yesterday and it is absolutely not the choices we would make, but it is fair, it is an improvement on the original chordical proposal to give a major relief to the foreign treasury, especially Trump's. A lower income tax is a choice of the cabinet, but it is a choice that will later be easily reversible. The voter will decide. Prime Minister Rutte has fought like a lion for abolishing the dividend tax. Why didn't he fight like a lion yesterday to relieve the burden on the citizen? This is also good for business and SMEs. And why didn't he fight last year and yesterday to get the payoff off the table? The voter will also judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u284	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u285	Mr. Chairman. The dividend tax will not be abolished by this cabinet. D66 thinks that's wise. As has already been said, the D66 Group is in favour of the overall package: the coalition agreement. That does not mean that we are idolized by all the proposals. In this way, we were never in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. But a deal is a deal and you want something else, then you have to want to move all four. D66 wanted it before. It is wise that this cabinet should now also make this movement realistic and willing to make adjustments if topicality so requires. In fact, making the Netherlands attractive can be achieved through many measures, not only by abolishing the dividend tax, where the money mainly goes to foreign shareholders of a few multinationals. It can be done in a smarter way, so that the money goes to all companies in the Netherlands, which create jobs and innovation. When Unilever announced on 5 October that the headquarters would not be relocated to Rotterdam for the time being, previous supporters of the measure also started to doubt. The cabinet decided to reconsider. A sensible but, I think, also inevitable choice. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet is presenting a package to the Chamber today which places other emphasis on it and benefits all companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has many priorities: education and innovation, tackling tax avoidance, reducing the burden on people and additional investments in healthcare, climate and defense. But a good location and investment climate is also a priority of this cabinet. So yes, companies are going to pay less corporate tax. More money goes to SMEs, more money to innovation. This package reduces employers' labour costs. There will be a two-year transitional arrangement for expats. And we keep the agreements from August, such as extra money for housing corporations and an extra portfolio for small entrepreneurs. I think that the emphasis on SMEs, the small businesses that everyone knows, is very important. This cabinet was already there for all companies. With this new package, this cabinet is sending out a crystal clear signal: without small and medium-sized enterprises, we will not get anywhere in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u286	Would D66, Mr Jetten, not have preferred to spend more money on education when this new package was put together, precisely in the context of the locational climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u287	Mr President, I am pleased that, with this coalition, we have chosen to invest heavily in the public sector, not only in education but also in nursing care, in defence, in the security of our country. I am also pleased that, with this cabinet, we have chosen to provide relief for households. But as far as I'm concerned, it's not either-or, but and-and. In addition to investing in the public sector, we also need to ensure that Dutch companies, from the bakery around the corner to the large SME's and a number of large companies, continue to invest in the Netherlands and provide jobs, because that is ultimately good for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u288	That wasn't the answer to my question. You were going to reschedule that little EUR 2 billion. We all know that good education is extremely important for the establishment environment. My question was: wouldn't you rather spend some of that 2 billion extra on education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u289	I just said, "date's a deal." We have agreed with the coalition where we make certain investments. If we had had a great deal of luck in the field of education, and a large part of that 1.9 billion had been released for education and innovation that D66 fought hard for, I would not have accepted that it had ended up in another package. That's why I understand that when you make agreements about strengthening the locational climate in the Netherlands, and you want to do this initially through the dividend tax measure but you come back to that, you're going to look for other ways to strengthen that locational climate. This is ultimately good for the whole of the Netherlands, because these companies provide jobs and they ensure that people have security. In the end, these companies also pay taxes that allow us to invest more in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u290	Alexander Pechtold said from where you stand: I would have preferred to spend the money on education. My question was whether the same applies to the present D66. From the answer I conclude that it has not even been tried. It wasn't even brought into the negotiations. I am very sorry about that, because I would like it very much if we could find extra money for education, just now that a new appointment is being made and the coalition agreement is being opened. Because the need is high, there is a threat of a teacher shortage of 11,000 people. I think it is of the utmost importance for our locational environment. I am therefore very sorry that D66 has apparently abandoned that wish and has not argued in favour of it in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u291	Priority one remains, of course, for me, for D66, always additional investment in education. I am therefore proud that, after years of balding in education, this cabinet is able to invest more in education. But I will always continue to fight with Mr Asscher for additional investment in education. I think that the most important task we have with each other now is to ensure that the extra money that we have already made available for it also ends up in the classes, with the teachers, with the teachers, with the children in those classes, with the students. I think that is the task we are facing in the near future. I hope that my education spokesperson, Paul van Meenen, and the spokesperson of the PvdA will meet in the coming months in the discussion of the OCW budget to ensure that that money is put in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u292	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u293	If it's priority number one and you're making new deals over 2 billion euros, is it really weird to assume that you're at least making an effort? Maybe it's not 1 billion, but it's going to be a smaller amount of money to do what for priority number one? Otherwise people think: apparently it wasn't priority number one after all. So I'd be happy to accept that invitation for the next few months. This creates expectations, but I find it regrettable and curious to note that apparently, once the coalition agreement has been opened, that priority, education, is equally less important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u294	Mr. Chairman. Mr Asscher has just done so in a few other interrupting debates. He's always trying to create a false contradiction between the public and private sectors. This cabinet makes its biggest investment in the public sector, but this cabinet also chooses to strengthen the locational environment in the Netherlands, because these companies are creating additional jobs from the bakery around the corner to a large SME's. It was Mr Asscher who, in my opinion, said the following in last year's General Political Reviews, and I very much appreciated that he did so from the left as one of the few: we also need to improve the investment climate in the Netherlands, but I think the dividend tax is a very unwise measure. Those may not be your exact words, but that was your message. So I would have expected Mr Asscher here today to pay particular tribute to the cabinet: what a pleasure that you have come to realize that we should not abolish the dividend tax but that we should invest in other ways in our investment climate. When dealing with the Tax Plan, I also hope to hear a substantive response from the Labour Party to all those proposals that are now in it, to lower burdens on SMEs, lower employers' burdens on labour and additional money for innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u295	Mr President, may I say something? 'Cause I was being addressed right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u296	Yes, yes, a short response, because otherwise it will indeed be a one-on-one debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u297	Apparently, fishing for compliments is in the job description. In this respect, it is very nice that the dividend tax is not abolished; congratulations for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u299	Great that you have come to that understanding, but my request was: more money for education, and now!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u300	Mr Jetten described the dividend tax as something of which he was not idolized. My question to him is: is he idolizing the choices that are being made now? Of all the choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u301	If I put the package that came to us last night next to the coalition agreement, I think this is a much smarter package. You can see that we invest in Dutch business in full width. There will be a reduction in both the low and high corporate tax rates. An additional reduction in employers' costs is being introduced. There's gonna be extra money for innovation. I think there is a very sensible package. If I put that next to the package that came out of the coalition agreement, I think: we have really taken another step forward with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u302	I conclude that the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u303	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u304	Okay. Well, you could have done that. It would've gone a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u305	Well, I think I'll explain, because we barely talked about the package tonight, and I think that's a shame if the cabinet worked so hard on it yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u306	It's a good thing you tell me what you want to tell me, but I asked you a yes-no question. You say you're idolized by that. So I think it would be a great deal if D66 were to agree to this package, with which we are actually going to make the tax on profits very different from the countries around us. I ask Mr Jetten whether he thinks it is fair for other countries to follow us later, that we in the Netherlands will soon be the ones who have revived that race to the bottom and that other societies will therefore actually get less taxes. How does Mr Jetten feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u307	Let me say three things about that. Firstly, this cabinet also tackles tax avoidance, letterbox companies and so on. We have even received a compliment from the OECD because the Netherlands is now at the forefront of this. This cabinet is therefore working to prevent tax avoidance that prevents companies in other countries from paying their taxes fairly. Secondly, I do not really see that race to the bottom as strong as some of you have said this evening. There are just countries in Europe that are already below the Dutch tariff. Nor are we the cheapest in Europe with the reduction that is now contained in this package. Countries such as Belgium and France all work towards 20% in the high rate. So we should not exaggerate that such a race to the bottom has now arisen. Finally, my party has always been in favour of a minimum corporate tax rate within the European Union, so that European Member States do not end up driving each other crazy. I hope that one day there will be such a minimum rate to prevent the risks you see, the extremes of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u308	This really is a very special answer. I ask whether he, as leader of D66, a party that also stands for an international order in which companies pay the taxes they really have to pay, also sees that there is a danger of a huge distance between the Netherlands and the countries around us. And he says: yes, but those countries also intend to do so. Moreover, in the Netherlands, 4 500 billion a year goes through our letterbox companies. It's about time we started doing that, too. It is very good that we are doing so, but that is not, of course, a justification for this step. I would ask Mr Jetten once again: do you think it is fair that in the Netherlands, under the leadership of D66, which is the idol of this measure, we are the ones who take the lead in that race to the bottom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u309	Mr Azarkan must not put words in my mouth now. I said this package is smarter than the package that was there. I told you we're dealing hard with tax avoidance. I'm glad we agree on that. We now choose to strengthen Dutch business with a limited reduction in the burden, extra money for innovation and lower employers' costs on labour. I therefore believe that this is a very sensible package to ensure that all those companies we have in this country provide employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u310	Mr Jetten says that the package of measures goes to all companies. That's obvious. It is partly because of a new fact, namely that Unilever is not coming, that that can be done. Two other new facts have now emerged in the intervening period: the Urgenda ruling and the IPCC report, which reiterates the urgency of climate action. My question is: does Mr Jetten see room for pushing the package that is now before us a little more towards fiscal greening rather than a generic relief for all companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u311	Mr Van Raan and I always find each other when it comes to ambitious climate policies. I am also pleased that, in addition to reducing the burden, this cabinet is also strongly committed to greening the tax system. That is also a little forgotten in the debate tonight. Last night, when I saw Nieuwsuur, I thought that it was "I was actually very pleased with the words of the President of the Netherlands, because he said: this package makes it easier for us as SMEs to contribute to that greening. I very much believe in an ambitious climate policy that we are going to achieve together with business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u312	I welcome this answer. This means that in not too short a time we may be able to see what these measures have done, whether they have indeed contributed to the greening, and that we will then meet again if it is not expected to happen soon enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u313	There is now a package for the House to decide on. Don't you think, Mr. Jetten, that the cabinet, and therefore your group, could still look at the reduction in disability, that 200 million cuts by a stricter WIA? Isn't that something you say I could have done, or am I seriously planning to bring that in? 'Cause everything's still open. There's two billion candy on the table. Yesterday the candies were distributed, with an extra candy for all four. But isn't this something that should have a high priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u314	We're talking tonight about the letter we received from the cabinet last night. I assume that all the specialists will really go into the depths of the tax plan and perhaps also assess a lot of counter-proposals from other parties. I believe that last week the Minister for Social Affairs promised all of us that he would discuss with employers and employees the important issue which Mr Van Rooijen also mentioned. So I look forward to hearing from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u315	Thank you. Oh, there's another question from Mr. Klaver. I figured...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u316	Congratulations also to Mr Jetten from this Chamber for being here today as chairman of the political group. Mr Jetten has just spoken about the tax rates and how they are under pressure in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u317	The corporation tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u318	Yeah, that's the profit tax. So what does that look like? I was wondering: which countries does he look at as competitors for the Netherlands? And how low are the rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u319	Well, competitors... I think you should especially look at how to ensure that the Netherlands is an attractive country for companies to settle down, how to make sure that companies that are already here can invest more in work and innovation. Belgium and France have said: we are moving towards 20%. That is a very clear ambition, which Mr Macron, of which you are a big fan, has also put in place. But we shouldn't let that drive us crazy. I think we should look above all at what companies in the Netherlands think is important. The package we received from the cabinet last night contained no less than two proposals that were also included in the counter-budget of GroenLinks; not the counter-budget of the left-wing opposition, but the counter-budget that GroenLinks himself submitted to the General Financial Reviews. In my view, therefore, the cabinet has once again listened carefully to proposals made by other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u320	I am asking for this because Mr Jetten has just said that we really need to beware of those other countries. He's talking about intentions. I hear all kinds of countries talking and all kinds of intentions from political parties. I'm looking at what countries do. In Germany there is no movement to reduce corporation tax. In Belgium at the moment it is just 26%. In France, it's just over 30%. The same applies to Italy, and so I can go off a few countries. At present, the Netherlands is one of the countries with the lowest corporate tax rates in Europe. So why was there the need to bring it down even further? In what way will the Netherlands become even more attractive in this way? Business profits have doubled from 100 billion to more than 200 billion. Why the hell would we give them a gift of 4 billion euros?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u321	Mr Klaver mentioned the 4 billion gift earlier. I really don't think that's true. I hope that the Secretary of State will also be able to explain later that, under the line, we are not giving a gift of 4 billion to business, precisely because we are tackling all kinds of tax measures and constructions, and precisely because we are also doing fiscal greening with this cabinet. So let's hear from the Secretary of State what the correct amount is. And again, D66 is in favour of a minimum corporate tax rate within the European Union, so that we do not drive each other crazy. I just said the same thing. Quite frankly, the German Parliament is about how they improve the investment climate in Germany. We need to agree here on how to do this for Dutch companies. Then I say again: if you talk not only to the big companies that Mr Klaver just talked about, but also to technology companies, companies that Mr Klaver himself is a fan of, and green start-ups that are growing and asking them "what do you think is important to be able to invest in the Netherlands?', These are lower employers' burdens on labour, extra money for innovation and a good arrangement for expats. Well, that's all in this package. Mr Klaver must therefore be very pleased with the package that came out of the cabinet last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u322	EUR 1.2 billion goes towards reducing the tax on profits. All the other amounts that are mentioned are peanuts. If only it were to reduce employers' burdens. I wish it was more about innovation. I wish there was more investment in education. This is good for the entrepreneurial environment. That's good for those start-ups and those scale-ups. That's where that change comes from. This goes generically in reducing the tax on profits, while in the Netherlands, compared to all the other countries in Europe, we are already very low. This doesn't add up. This is solving a VVD problem. He wanted this for business. They wanted to give this gift to VNO-NCW. And D66 is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u323	I would like to challenge Mr Klaver to explain this package alongside the package from the coalition agreement. Then you will see that last night's biggest amounts go mainly to new things, namely: reducing employers' burdens, extra money for innovation and a good solution for the expats. So put this next to the coalition agreement. This is just a smarter package than what it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u324	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u325	No. Last remark, Mr Van Rooijen. I see you. You've just been extended. I'm not gonna do another round. Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Jetten. You were ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u326	Yeah, I was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u327	I'm sorry. Mr. Wilders, you haven't come yet. No, Mr. Van Rooijen!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u328	I hear Mr Jetten talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. He was just talking about the baker on the corner. I was looking again at that package yesterday, so the adjustment of the dividend tax plan. I was wondering, what would the baker benefit from around the corner? Does he benefit from the reduction in the Vpb tariff? What is in it for that baker around the corner that you just mentioned, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which, in your opinion, is so important?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u329	Reduction of corporation tax at the low rate. Reduction of employers' costs on labour. And in the summer, we already agreed in the package that we have an additional portfolio for SMEs, which the Secretary of State will fill in in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u330	Unfortunately, what Mr Jetten is saying is not true. Indeed, in 2021, 200 million will be spent on reducing employers' labour costs. But that 200 million is on the whole of 1.9 billion peanuts. And that baker on the corner is not covered by the measure of lowering the low Vpb rate. He doesn't benefit a penny from that. He's got nothing to do with that. You didn't know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u331	I have just heard all kinds of SMEs over the past 24 hours who are very happy with this package. In my list of just it went from the baker around the corner to for example a large installer with about 50 men in service. These are companies where a lot of Dutch people go to work every day with great pleasure. This package is better than the package that was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u332	If you're wrong about something, you just have to admit it. I think I heard a baker say on Radio 1 this morning: I am not taking advantage of it at all. Then I went to look it up. And, indeed, what is now, according to the official figures of the CBS? We have about 3,000 bakers in the Netherlands and 2,500 of those bakers are not legal entities but natural persons. We also have a few thousand butchers in the Netherlands. 90% of butchers are not legal persons but natural persons. This means that, now that 90% of bakers and 90% of butchers in the Netherlands do not pay corporation tax, they also do not benefit from the reduction of the Vpb. You're sitting here saying that the package is incredibly good for the baker on the corner. I challenge you by asking: how? And then you say: by a lower Vpb rate, from 16% to 15%. But that doesn't help those bakers. That's no use to those butchers. It's just bothering them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u333	Mr Wilders is now giving specific examples. In my opinion, they benefit from the adjustment of the box 2 tariff, from the total package that this cabinet is implementing, from relief for households, in which we invest around 5 billion. It will be different for every case, but again: the package that came out last night is better than the package that was there. The abolition of the dividend tax mainly benefited foreign shareholders of a few large multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u334	I'm not Frits Wester. You don't have to repeat the same thing over and over again without saying anything. I told you it wasn't right that the baker and the butcher weren't taking advantage of it. Let me briefly explain to you why it is bothering them. That baker and that butcher do not benefit from the low corporate tax, because they do not pay a profit tax because they are a natural person and not a legal person. Albert Heijn does make a profit from that lower income tax. That baker and that butcher are about to face a higher VAT rate, which, thanks to Mr Jetten's party, goes from 6% to 9%. And that baker and that butcher have to pay that VAT rate and compete with the Albert Heijn and the Jumbo and the other big companies, who do benefit from that lower profit tax. By choosing to let the Albert Heijn and the Jumbo take advantage of that lower income tax and that small baker on the corner doesn't get that; he gets the higher VAT. Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u335	I say it again, and I do not think it can be said often enough tonight. We're not abolishing the dividend tax. That's money that would go to foreign shareholders of a number of large multinationals. Now there is a broader package, which provides a wide-ranging reduction in the burden on businesses in the Netherlands, for companies that provide jobs. With this cabinet, we have opted for a reduction in the burden on households. That's 5 billion cuts. Even the VAT increase is included. People eventually have more left under the line in their wallet and hopefully every Dutch entrepreneur will benefit from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u336	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u337	Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u338	I would advise Mr Jetten to admit that for the rest of the time he is here as a new-fashioned group chairman, if he is wrong about something and not, as if I am Frits Wester, to repeat the same squeal ten times. You yourself mentioned the baker's example. The baker and the butcher don't benefit from it. They only suffer because they get the VAT increase and have to compete with the Albert Heijn, who gets the reduction in the tax on profits. You just haven't thought about it. You don't know your case, and that's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u339	Mr Jetten began by saying that D66 did not want to abolish the dividend tax for a long time, and I am glad that the cabinet wants it now. My question to Mr Jetten is: since when exactly is that the position of D66? We have always heard your predecessor defend it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u340	My predecessor and our spokesperson have never made it a secret that the abolition of the dividend tax was not such a sensible choice, that it was not something we had invented. But my colleagues have also always said that our signature is under a government agreement, a total package, and agreement is an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u341	Yes, and yet there have been numerous debates here, there have been investigations and arguments. Your coalition wouldn't listen to those arguments in the end. 'Cause you did agree to it. You can say it wasn't your idea, but you signed it, so you can't get out of here that easily. You agreed to that. All these arguments didn't count, and apparently there has been a moment now. I suspect the much-discussed text you said: no, that's enough within the coalition; now I want something else. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u342	I also said at the beginning of my speech: agreement is an agreement and if you want to change something about such an agreement, all four groups will have to move. That has happened in recent weeks and indeed the cabinet chose a review on Friday a few weeks ago. Again, I thought that was a sensible choice of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u343	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u344	I understand that Mr Jetten repeats that this is a sensible choice, but my question is of course another one. Your signature was just as much under the abolition of the dividend tax. This is also about credibility. It's about the credibility of your coalition, which defended it down to the deepest fibers. While all the arguments were missing, the coalition defended abolishing the dividend tax. I ask Mr Jetten, right from the man's point of view, what do you think is going to do with the credibility of your cabinet? It has been defended for a year against all arguments and all investigations in and against the resistance of society. And then there's one decision from Unilever, and we're here tonight. What does that do with credibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u345	The people who are watching this debate tonight have been seeing the same questions and answers here for hours. I think a lot of Dutch people think: wise that the government should not abolish this dividend tax; can we please continue to govern this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u346	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u347	I do not believe that it is up to us that the same questions, and certainly not the same answers, should be answered here all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u348	You have been quite restrained with the interruptions, but that certainly does not apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u349	I think we are constantly asking the same question here because the answer to that is completely unbelievable, Mr Jetten. And I appeal to you as part of this coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u350	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u351	Mr President, I can repeat my position on this once again, but I do not think it adds anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u352	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u353	Madam President. As the hurricane that plagued Portugal last weekend is the cause of the beautiful weather here, Unilever's disappointing decision not to move his head office from London to Rotterdam for the time being is the cause of something good. The dividend tax is not abolished and a good alternative has been put in place that focuses on work and Dutch entrepreneurs. I'm happy with that. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet already invested heavily in the public sector, rising to 6.5 billion in 2021. The cabinet already greatly eased the burden on citizens of our country, by more than 5 billion in 2021. Families can look forward to another 1 billion via the various child schemes. Only the business community got rid of this cabinet. For the companies, the burden even increased slightly, for example, in the CPB's pass-through of the coalition agreement. Including the basic path, it looked even worse. It is not that we should feel sorry for business. After all, the share of business in tax revenues has fallen in the rest of the western world over the decades, while profits have increased. In recent years, however, and also in the coming years, the burden on businesses has increased and increased at least as much, if not more, than for citizens. With this package, the government brings more balance between the public sector, citizens and businesses in the government agreement. The dividend tax remains in place and instead the cabinet reduces the tax on profits for small and large companies, as well as employers' costs. The cabinet also promotes innovation and softens the measures that are painful for companies in the government agreement. In particular, the good measures for SMEs can appeal to my group. I think they are quite in line with previous arguments made by Mr Klaver. Think of the reduction of the profit tax, also in the first disc, and of the impetus for innovation via the Wbso, or to say it with colleague Klaver: to pull investments in R&D. That's what he said earlier at Buitenhof. Mr. Chairman. The reduction in employers' costs is perhaps the most appealing thing to my group. If one measure is good for both employers and employees, it is good for this one. I note that the wording of the letter from Secretary of State Snel has not yet been appointed. I assume he is thinking of reducing the Aof premium or the WW premium for companies with long-term permanent staff. Especially if we could do that, we'd hit multiple flies with one stone. My group believes that it is sensible that the cabinet should have taken the opportunity to resolve a threat to the CO-minimum price in the near future. Now that could happen painlessly. I assume that the remaining problem will be taken into account in the agreements to be reached under the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u354	1.9 billion earmarked for the abolition of the dividend tax has been spent differently. Out of this 1.9 billion, 200 million is going to be allocated to what Mr Segers calls the most important point in the year 2021. He just literally said, "What's most important to me is this part." So out of the 1.9 billion you think the 200 million in the year 2021 for the reduction of employers' burdens is the most important? The rest just goes back to the multinationals. Two-thirds of that 1.9 billion goes back to the same companies as Unilever. That's where the expat scheme and the high Vpb fare just go. That's 1.1 billion or 1.3 billion out of that 1.9 billion. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u355	I am talking about 200 million and not just in 2021, but in structural terms. That's year in, year out of 200 million for entrepreneurs. This makes it easier to create work, to employ people. Reducing the tax on profits, not only for large companies, but also for SMEs, the smaller ones, means more room for work, more room for innovation, more room for investment. And as Mr Jetten has just said, SMEs say that it is also more room to work towards achieving the climate objectives. So that's just good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u356	Madam President, those are all peanuts. May I ask an informative question? Do you know your own state?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u357	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u358	If you are aware of these amounts, you have seen that many of these points relate to 10 million, 76 million and 15 million. It's all about peanuts. The structural amount for each year you are talking about doesn't even start until 2021. In the years to come, the years to come, at least support a cabinet in which your party is represented, to reduce the tax on profits, especially for large companies. That's almost $1 billion again. In 2021, it's 1.2 billion. It also goes to the expat scheme. That's just... again, isn't it? Do you agree with me that this is again the same target group as the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u359	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u360	Those are the multinationals again. That is not SMEs at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u361	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u362	Those are the multinationals again!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u363	Count your blessings! We have a package where...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u364	Answer me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u365	I'm gonna answer the question. Look what's happening. 1.9 billion would go largely to foreign shareholders. That was the plan. Why? For a more important purpose, namely to keep employment here. That was the effect. That has been made clear by colleagues. But if you see now that this amount is for the benefit of Dutch entrepreneurs, Dutch employees and the Dutch locational climate, then that is good news. So once you count your blessings, instead of always complaining here at the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u366	Will you count your blessings for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u367	Yes, count your blessings once! It's about Dutch entrepreneurs, who you represent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u368	Mr President, who is speaking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u369	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u370	Or are we gonna yell at each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u371	Are we gonna do it again? I don't mind if I do. Take the floor!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u372	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u373	When I speak, Mr Segers says: count your blessings once. But I don't count my blessings! And the whole of the Netherlands doesn't count its blessings, if you spend that 1.9 billion on the same multinationals for the most part. Again to Unilever, again to those expats, who have to pay 30% less tax for two years longer than the Dutch who go to work every day on their bike or moped or by train. I would like to ask you: why does the Christian Union not return this sum, that 1.9 billion, to the citizen? Why don't you make sure the VAT increase doesn't go through? This benefits businesses and citizens, people who work, the elderly, everyone, including SMEs. Why run after Rutte's old employer Unilever like a slave again? It doesn't please you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u374	Stop it! This is about SMEs. This is about entrepreneurs. It's about contractors, about people with employees. It's about real companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u375	Liar!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u376	Liar? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u377	No, no! Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u378	It is about Dutch companies, who have employees and who complained about the package that was there, who were not satisfied. SME Netherlands and Entrepreneurship Netherlands said: we are dissatisfied. Now they say: thank you, this is a good package, which helps us, it helps Dutch companies and the business here; this package does what it has to do. Indeed, count your blessings for once. It's about Dutchmen, who you also represent. You should be proud of that someday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u379	And...!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u380	No, Mr. Wilders! Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u381	I say let's settle down, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u382	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u383	I have heard many times here from Mr Segers the story of Joseph and the grain barn. When, in general, I read the comments of the Central Planning Bureau and the Council of State, they say: this cabinet creates structural burdens and covers this with occasional coverage, with expansive budgetary policies. Has Mr Segers also thought about reserving some of that money for later, because at the moment we are simply not dealing wisely with budgetary policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u384	I have to say that this is a unique sound in this room that someone says: wouldn't you spend a little less? That's remarkable. You could indeed say: it is Joseph's wisdom to bury very wisely. But if you look at the long term of our social spending, I think it is indeed sustainable and sensible. We invest substantial sums in the public sector. We invest in employment. That's gonna pay off. That's gonna pay off. But it is indeed a fair warning: listen carefully to that warning from the Council of State that we should not spend too much. This is what we've done. There was a sum. It is reserved for employment and for the locational environment. That's gonna get a different interpretation. So the goal remains the same, only by other means. I think it is real and justified to use the same size as in the coalition agreement for this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u385	Still, in its generality. Why does Mr Segers think it is wise that we now have an expansionary budgetary policy? Why invest cyclically in a time of high economics? Why do investments that we cannot then properly cover? The middle part of your story doesn't add up. We do invest in healthcare, but we do not have structural coverage for that. You'll have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u386	No. At least we'll have more left over in the next few years than we ever get in, and that's growing. So it's going really well. In the long term, you must indeed keep an eye on the shelf life. That finger you need to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u387	But that's minus 0.4%!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u388	Mr Azarkan, I call Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u389	You have to keep the finger on the wrist. And at the same time: it was necessary to invest in education and it is necessary to invest in care. That's what this cabinet does. We will. And what I said was, there was a burden increase for business. That came off a little shaky. We are doing something for business in the Netherlands. And I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u390	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u391	But the problem at the moment isn't that business doesn't invest enough and doesn't create enough jobs? That's not the problem right now, is it? So it's interesting that you invest in it. You make it even easier for them: they pay even less taxes. As Mr Klaver said, profits in recent years have risen from 100 billion to 200 billion, while the burden on citizens has been increased. Before Rutte, every citizen of every euro he earned had to pay €0.35, and at the moment that is more than €0.39. That's not fair, is it? That's not fair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u392	Indeed, this distortion is not fair, so that corrects the cabinet. Indeed, more than 5 billion burden relief is provided to citizens and there would be a slight increase in the burden on business. This is now decreasing, but the burden on businesses is still rising slightly. So that's a correction. We are doing more for citizens and more for the public sector, but we are now stepping up for business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u393	Mr Segers and I do not entirely agree on how this money should be spent. But I found it interesting that he said that these small companies can now do more to make them more sustainable, and so can the big companies. My question is this. If you persist in bringing that money to those companies, wouldn't it be wise to make it conditional?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u394	We are, of course, also in favour of business. The biggest polluter is industry. That's what we're talking about at the climate tables, and we're about to have a climate agreement. This will also include legislation, so we are going to increase the burden: there will be greening of the tax system. So yes, there will be measures and obligations for business, but we are now in the middle of discussions to see how that goal of Paris can ultimately be achieved. But the business community will have to make its contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u395	Sure. That is an increase. But let me put it this way: you now have once again the chance to talk with us for a very large amount of money, and you do and we do not want to talk about how you spend it. And you're okay with giving that to the companies because of the sustainability statement. That's one of the arguments you just mentioned. Is it not wise to link this positive point for companies with their efforts to make them more sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u396	That's possible, but that obligation is going to come. There's gonna be legislation. We have objectives, including for industry and for business. So they're gonna have to participate. This can also be done through legislation or mandatory measures, but we are giving them the opportunity to be entrepreneurs: to hire people to do the right things. And if SMEs in the Netherlands themselves come up with the idea that they can use this for greening, then I think that we are on the right path together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u397	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u398	Yeah, finally. Mr Segers says that there will be legislation. Perhaps it would be a good idea here tonight as a Chamber to say that this reduction in the burden should indeed be linked to legislation on sustainability. Then we don't give away the money first and then say: these companies don't do it. I'm very much in favour of counting blessings, but here we may be able to do a little more than just count blessings. Because we can make it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u399	But we still have the means of legislation or obligations at our disposal. And that will certainly be part of that climate agreement. But the more we can agree together and voluntarily at these climate tables, with which we achieve the goals, the better it is. That's what we're making room for right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u400	Please continue. I think this has changed enough, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u401	Yes, I get the point: you'd like to take care of it now. I'm saying we're gonna take care of it, but we're gonna make room to make good deals later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u402	But did you plead for it and couldn't do it? Don't you agree with me that it's wise? I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u403	I learned not to talk about which papers exactly when were on the table and who said what. So the conversations about that we keep in rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u404	No, no, I'm not asking for memos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u405	Good. Then I suggest you proceed, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u406	For more than a year, the abolition of dividend taxes has dominated the political debate and heated the moods. That overshadowed the government's many investments in education, care, security and defence, and the many good measures for ordinary-income families, which they're going to notice in the wallet in the coming year. At the same time, I am confident that my colleagues will see new opportunities for the debate on the renewed cabinet policy. This afternoon and tonight we have already had a taste of that. I am happy to enter into this debate with confidence, knowing that the revised government agreement, without abolishing the dividend tax, is more balanced than the original. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u407	Thank you, Mr Segers. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u408	Madam President. During the General Reviews on 19 September I asked this Chamber who is the boss in the Netherlands. We have seen: it is not Mark Rutte and it is not the Dutch voter either. When Unilever orders Rutte to abolish the dividend tax, Mark Rutte feels in all his fibers that that should happen and defends this bizarre plan as if his life depended on it. Maybe his political life has depended on it. If Paul Polman, the CEO of Unilever, does not even seem to be able to assess the vote with his own shareholders and those shareholders do not want to move the Unilever Head Office to the Netherlands at all, Mark Rutte, like a leaf on the tree, will just as easily turn around and abolish the delivery. Rutte appears to be the errand boy of the multinationals and if his former employer no longer wants him to give 2 billion tax dollars annually to foreign investors, he does not. This whole thing shows not only that Mark Rutte is a teaching errand boy of Unilever, but above all that the naive Mark Rutte can't even estimate in what international financial force he operates in. Several financial experts and also the FD have repeatedly pointed out that it was not a matter at all that the Unilever shareholders would agree to the relocation plans from London to Rotterdam, because the other Dutch laws and regulations could lead to significant valuation differences. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore, if he has time to put down his phone and hear my question, has he ever taken into account that Polman of Unilever just kept him up and thought: we'll just try and see where the ship is stranded? Mr. Prime Minister, I'm very curious to hear your answer to that, if you've heard the question at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u409	The Prime Minister will respond later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u410	Unilever did have a plan B: if the Unilever shareholders don't like it, we just blame Mark Rutte. Should the Prime Minister not also have a plan B, I ask the Prime Minister through the President, if he hears it. Shouldn't he have a plan B, too, or should he have gone on to chase Polman as a naive baking fish? You wonder who he's getting a text from now. Rutte even had the king read in the throne speech that the dividend tax would be abolished. Rutte's credibility has reached an absolute low. Who the hell is he sitting here for? For himself? For multinationals? For a job in the EU? At least not for the Netherlands. How can we trust this Prime Minister? He's laughing, but I don't think many people in the Netherlands are laughing. Why does the Prime Minister, the Minister for General Affairs, have the economic climate of the Netherlands in his portfolio? It is clear that no one else in the cabinet supported these measures. Rutte assumed this responsibility personally: it was his measure and he must now answer. He must be called to account and he must take his responsibility. Madam President. Anyone who has ever been in the kitchen knows that when the teflon layer of your frying pan starts to scratch, you have to throw away the pan as soon as possible because it becomes toxic and needs to be replaced by a better specimen. Mark Rutte's teflon layer broke down. It's time to replace him, too. We can no longer trust this Prime Minister. We shall support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u411	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u412	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u413	Mr. Chairman. To be honest, I have only received a few questions that I can answer, but I have such a hunch that is the years of political experience that there will be a need for a single interruption here and there. So we're gonna spend some time together after all. The division of roles I had in mind was that I myself answered a few general questions about the proposals made by the cabinet yesterday, amending the government agreement and what we had previously sent to the Chamber, i.e. more political questions, and that then the technical questions are answered by the Secretary of State for Finance. I come first to the more political questions. I'm just gonna grab them ripe and green. The first question was: why does the money go directly to the big companies; why doesn't it go to the public sector? That is a question from Mr Asscher, but others have also referred to it in their contribution. That is actually what the discussion we had in the General Reviews is about. This cabinet has an en- en-en policy. Money goes both to the public sector and to lower costs for the people in the country. We are putting the budget in order, but we are also creating a good locational environment for businesses, big and small. If you look at the money we spend on reducing the tax on profits, you will see that the net relief that comes from this is 0.5 billion, because many basic measures are also being taken, I say to Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. All in all, this amounts to about 3.6 billion. The total cost of reducing tariffs, low and high, is about 4.1 billion. There's about 0.5 billion in between. So that 0.5 billion is the real relief, and the rest is all that has to do with broadening the base. I can go on for a while. As a result, there was also a question from the PVV. He says, "Why don't you use that 1.9 billion to not increase VAT?" Then you have to tell the whole story. The increase in the low VAT rate is part of a total package. As a result, as from 1 January, the income tax burden will be reduced by some 6 billion for people in the country. This means that the revenue from VAT is not used to create a net burden increase. No, it ultimately contributes to a net relief of around 6 billion, a reduction in the burden on people in the country. And here, too, the en- en-en policy applies. I still have a few questions to ask, but now I see what people are standing by the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u414	The central question is, of course, whether the Netherlands is taking an irresponsible risk because the dividend tax is not abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u415	Yeah, we're taking a risk. Is it irresponsible? We have, of course, tried to mitigate a number of risks in the wider package with the package that is now in place. But you can't take them all away. I've heard some people compare the old and new packages. I'd like to choose a different approach myself. With what we're doing now, of course, you mitigate a number of risks. The question is, is it enough? It was a targeted measure that was the abolition of the dividend tax on companies of a British-Dutch character. Shell has always been very open about it, but there are other companies, such as Unilever, who do not speak openly about what they may or may not find. Shell's gonna be open about that. There are other companies involved. There are companies that could come to the Netherlands in the future. There are fast-growing companies that are wondering where they are going to settle. We have said that for all those types of companies you should abolish the dividend tax. So you take an irresponsible risk with some of the largest companies in the Netherlands. With this package, we now think we can manage to broaden it. There is a broader package that now caters to business. That'll take away some of those risks. But we cannot now take the targeted measure of abolishing the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u416	But we have heard here for a year that we are taking an irresponsible risk if we do not abolish the dividend tax. That was what was constantly put forward by the Prime Minister. And at once it is: well, a risk that we have to weigh and mitigate and for which we have to take all kinds of other measures instead. We have tabled a motion with the entire opposition to identify alternatives. Voted out. Couldn't. It could only be solved through the dividend tax. And now that measure is off the table. I don't understand. If you believe in this as much as the Prime Minister did, if you've fought so much here, if you've spent a year sticking your political neck out for this, will you just say on a Friday morning: nah, we don't do it anymore? That's totally unbelievable, isn't it? How do I know next time that this Prime Minister means what he says when he feels that we should do something because otherwise it is an irresponsible risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u417	I just gave the answer. I think we're still taking a risk. Whether it is irresponsible will have to be proved. We have tried to bridge as much as possible in the package as possible between 'high risk' and 'unaccountable risk'. But the package does not, of course, lead to the very targeted achievement of the objective we had with the abolition of the dividend tax. This was because companies with a British-Dutch character are currently subject to low interest rates, which are at risk of being acquired, which have a discount on the total value of their business because they are located in two countries with a different tax environment when it comes to dividend taxation. At least from one company, Unilever, we know it was on the eve of the choice where to place the head office. I can't talk about what they think or don't think behind the scenes, because they haven't been open about it themselves. I can share with you, however, we have all read in the newspaper that they had decided to come to the Netherlands, but that the risk was considered too high that the shareholders' meeting would not support that. This measure was aimed at encouraging this type of decision in the right direction. This concerns some of Europe's largest companies. We are now, of course, at risk of how big that is, and it will have to be seen that decisions are going to be taken in those companies that are not in our interest. That's a risk we're running. Of course, we are trying to solve that as much as possible. We cannot target the 1.9 billion, so we are now deploying it widely. Of course, it is the hope that this will help to mitigate the risks. We will also have further discussions with these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u418	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u419	It was an irresponsible risk for a whole year. Now it is at once "well, a risk, we have to take that. We're gonna try to stop the consequences. Yes, it is a risk that plays." This is totally weird, isn't it? You cannot say here in the Chamber for a year that we are all irresponsible and then decide overnight to remove that dividend tax? It's very good. I'm very happy about it. But I can't follow what happened to this Prime Minister on Friday after he got that call. He has in no way listened to what the opposition had to bring here. That is why my question would be, finally: is he prepared to look again with the opposition in what way we can shape the package that is now in place, so that there is a package that has very broad political support and cannot count on a majority after March?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u420	What we have done, now that we have come to the conclusion, after careful weighing, that we are not going to go through with that part of the previous package that had to do with the abolition of dividend taxation, is to use it, reaching, of course, the same target area, namely the business sector, the larger business sector. But now we were also able, because we could re-label the money within the burden relief for business, to hit smaller businesses, SMEs, and also see what was possible in the context of burden relief. I think that's a sensible package that we like to defend here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u421	Then Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u422	Mr. Chairman. I am referring to the spending of the 1.9 billion, but may I begin by asking the Prime Minister whether he does not now feel with some self-knowledge that he has gone off like a watering machine, that he has defended the impossible against better knowledge for a year, and that he has lied to the Dutch too, perhaps even worse, for a year. I quote, that was also about abolishing the dividend tax: 'If we do not, then I believe in my deepest fiber that you are taking an unacceptable risk with tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands and potentially millions of jobs, and this coalition is not going to do so'. Millions of jobs, big words, scared people. And finally, by text message, if that's the case, I'm told that I'd like to hear an oekaze, an announcement, from London and the message: look at it, we're not doing it. And you're standing there in your shirt or in your underwear, or whatever you want to call it, at 7:00 in the morning, and you're panicking: "Oh, boy, now I have to call Buma and Segers and know whatever." I hope it wasn't FaceTime. But you have undoubtedly called them and I ask you: have you not gone off, do you not think that your credibility has fallen to zero and that you should go?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u423	If you choose to stay in the opposition forever, then there will never be anything that matters to you. I also told the media yesterday: my job is to collect scratches. Why did we fight for this measure? Because as a country, we are at great risk. Whether this is unacceptable will have to be proved. We are, of course, trying to mitigate that element as much as possible with this package and we will have to see if that happens. But it's the government's job to govern. If you see that some of your biggest companies, if you have to establish that you are running the risk that a few of your biggest companies are now facing the whole specific situation of the global economy, the cheap money, the acquisition risk and the exit to their stock market value... One of these companies, Unilever, was even on the eve of a decision on where it would settle. Then it would be crazy if you didn't prepare as a government for that. The measure that we are not going to allow to continue was very conscious and very targeted precisely in order to adjust that type of decision-making in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u424	That is a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u425	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u426	I asked the Prime Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you could talk about the content, of course, about his own credibility, not what he has done and what he has prepared for. You have used your entire political weight within your own coalition and within the House of Representatives, at least the entire opposition, to emphasise how important it was for companies à la Unilever to abolish that dividend tax. You defended that against your better judgment. And by text message you will be put on your number, you will be put in your shirt, you will be humiliated and I ask you a question, because a Prime Minister must also be credible in this country. It's not about a bill you submit, one of those hundreds a year. The point is that you have put your entire political capital into your shirt and that it doesn't happen. And I ask: do you do the Netherlands a service by remaining Prime Minister with such a dent, such a stain on your blazon? That's just an honest question I'd like an honest answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u427	My job as Prime Minister is to take care of two things. Of course, we do this with the entire coalition in the entire cabinet, but I feel very responsible for that as the foreman of the cabinet. Our job as politicians, and certainly as Prime Minister, is to keep this country safe and create a strong economy with jobs. The aim of this measure was to prevent decision-making in some of our largest companies from being the potential decisions of companies to look at where they are going to settle, including those of large companies that are still in the world and are going to have to decide where they are going to settle in Europe to look in the right direction. I think it is my job to take such a measure, even if it is not popular, and I agree with Mr Wilders that the measure did not turn out to be popular anyway. If we don't do that anymore, when we say "o, that measure is not popular, let's not do it anymore," we don't control, we don't take responsibility. You can't do that. Then you're really not worth the snipe in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u428	Now the Prime Minister has taken his responsibility and defended it, but he's gone off like a watering machine. The company said we're not doing it. And you're withdrawing the measure. At such a central point of government policy, I think it would be a credit to the Prime Minister and would also serve the country's interest if he were to get his hands on it. He won't. I'll invite him to that in a moment. Mr President, one other point, if I may. That's about what the Prime Minister just said: spending the money. I also said it in the General Political Reviews. You now had the chance to show that you are indeed a prime minister of all the Dutch, including those with pensions, the people with benefits, the people who work and the people from small and medium-sized enterprises, by spending that 1.9 billion in order not to allow the VAT increase to continue. You would have adored that. I would have been standing here, I would have told you honestly and complimented you. But what are you doing, Mr. Rutte? What are you doing? You're giving that money back to the multinationals. The majority goes back to the same companies as Unilever and you leave the voter in the cold again. Can I ask you one more time, for the last time, and then we will draw the political conclusions in the second term: are you prepared to spend that 1.9 billion on the citizen, who you have taken in every way, with higher rents, high health insurance, high energy bills, by undoing that VAT increase? You can do that with the same amount. I invite you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u429	But then Mr Wilders will have to tell the whole story. I just said it in my first response to the question he asked in the first term: it is true that this increase in VAT will bring money. I even thought a little over 1.9 billion, but let's assume it's 1.9 billion. I thought it would be a little higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u430	2.2.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u431	2.2. Anyway, at least near that 1.9 billion. If anyone would use that to increase the burden, I understand Mr Wilders, but that is not true. What we are doing is that 2.2 billion, which it seems to be exactly, or the 1.9 that Mr Wilders is calculating, at least use that amount of around 2 billion to reduce income tax in this cabinet period by about 6 billion. So there is a charge relief of 6 billion, so we are doing everything Mr Wilders wants. So what he would give applause for if we'd done that, we've already done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u432	Still, for my understanding. Is the Prime Minister still in favour of abolishing the dividend tax, but does he now conclude that it is less relevant to international business than he initially thought? Or is he no longer in favour of abolishing the dividend tax because of this misjudging of international business? Or, thirdly, does he still want to abolish the dividend tax, but does he conclude that he is no longer receiving the Chamber? It's one of three options. The CDA and VVD spokesmen were unclear about this in the first term. Where does the Prime Minister stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u433	Well, I don't think I'm gonna go into the practice of the three options. Let me explain myself. I still think that the abolition of the dividend tax is very well justified. At the same time, you have to establish the following. We didn't do it for one company, but one large company that we naturally hoped would come to Rotterdam seemed like it, because the top of that company had decided to do so last Friday came to the conclusion that it feared that it would not have sufficient support from its own shareholders. That decision is relevant in itself. That's a case you've got to weigh in on. Then we sat down together and said, "Okay, we weigh that." What comes out of that weighing? That it is wise to come up with a broader package that mitigates as much as possible the consequences of not making the most of the abolition of the dividend tax, but leaves a considerable residual risk on the table as to where these companies will eventually settle. We must also be realistic about this: we are at risk as a country. Me and the cabinet are trying to do everything we can to change that in the right direction, but that is a risk now that we are deciding not to abolish the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u434	Should the Prime Minister not recognise that he initially misjudged the proposed abolition of the dividend tax? If it's that easy to get out of the table again, then he was just wrong, wasn't he? He just indicated: to rule is to take responsibility, to make mistakes, and so on. I think we all want to acknowledge that here in the Chamber. So you're admitting that, too? "I was wrong? I, Mark Rutte, have been advocating the wrong measures for a year?" You can just say that, can't you? You misjudged Unilever's shareholders, you misjudged the needs of the Dutch economy. Just admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u435	It is simply not true that I would have misjudged the needs of the Dutch economy. I think we all agree here, Chamberwide, that it is very nice that some of the largest companies in Europe are based in the Netherlands, while we are so much smaller as the economy, five times smaller than the German economy, four times smaller than the British and French economies. It's fantastic that these companies are based here. At the same time, because we are so much smaller and we have so much smaller home market, we have to do much more to keep that kind of business here. There has been a unique situation over the past two or three years, namely low interest rates, which risk taking over these companies. One company is very open about it, Shell, other companies were open about the fact that they were in favour of a decision where to establish their headquarters. But of course there are more companies in England that eventually, even after the Brexit, will have to choose where to settle. In addition, not having a level playing field at the point of dividend taxation is a contradiction. So I still think that this measure is justified, but at the same time it is true that last Friday one of those very large companies finally decided to postpone that decision. It'd be crazy if you just kept steaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u436	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u437	Then why would it be crazy to keep going? So it was focused exclusively on Unilever, something you've always denied?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u438	I just said a few times: it wasn't aimed at one company. It is aimed at a few of the largest Dutch companies. Unilever was on the eve of the decision on where to settle. Shell has been very open about it being very important to them...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u439	Which more? Name a few more companies! Unilever, Shell and what else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u440	I was just working on the answer. Excuse me, we'll be right back to you. We know that Unilever was on the verge of making such a decision. We know Shell has always been very open about the fact that it's important to them. We also know that these companies are seriously affected by this low interest rate at the moment. We also know that because of the Brexit there are of course other companies in England that will be wondering: where are we going to settle? Because of our bonus climate, it is unlikely that these will be financial companies. We simply need to be realistic about that, because we have a bonus cap that also applies to banks that are not covered by our deposit guarantee scheme. So the chances of them coming here are low. At the moment, you can see them making a massive choice for Ireland, Frankfurt and Paris. However, we have a chance at companies in the production corner that are currently wondering again where they want to be because of the Brexit et cetera. Then not having a level playing field at this point is a serious disadvantage. That's what it was all about. But the fact is that the second largest company in the Netherlands, which was on the verge of coming to Rotterdam, decided to postpone that decision. That's also relevant. We didn't do it for that one company. That is the specific answer to Mr Baudet's question. We did that for a multitude of reasons, but this is, of course, a relevant fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u441	Really rounding up, Mr. Baudet. Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u442	One more time. If, among other things, you say you are doing it because of the Brexit, because all kinds of companies are rethinking the question of where to settle, then you must stand for that measure. Then it's not just Unilever, is it? You can't say: it's not because of Unilever that we wanted it, but now that Unilever doesn't want to use it anymore, do we abolish it? Isn't that a totally inconsistent and unbelievable story?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u443	I have to refer to the answer I have just given: we are not doing it for one company. But of course you cannot deny that, if it is a second largest Dutch company that decides to postpone the decision to come to the Netherlands, then as a coalition logically says: wherever it has so many other reasons, one can somehow use that money in such a way that you mitigate the risks as much as possible and maximize that companies make the right decisions, without taking that whole targeted measure in the field of dividend taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u444	This issue is really a little too important for this rutian magic. It was not the case that the Prime Minister said here: it is a targeted measure, you can do it, we are at risk, that is why I am advocating this. No, he didn't. He said to this Chamber, and with that to the Netherlands: you take an irresponsible risk if you do not abolish the dividend tax. Now we are standing here and he himself proposes not to abolish the dividend tax. So what he has to do is take his words back. He has to say here: I should not have called that irresponsible, because I am doing it myself now. And if the Prime Minister doesn't realize that, if he himself doesn't take the meaning of his words seriously in parliament, others are not going to take his words seriously, how are we supposed to trust him, how are we supposed to believe him when he says it's necessary? So I ask the Prime Minister two things. Are you taking it back that it's an irresponsible risk? And are you willing to apologize to all those parties that you used to beat the crap out of?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u445	Whether it is irresponsible will always have to tell the future. I do not believe that the abolition of the dividend tax should continue to be at any rate a major risk. Whether it is irresponsible depends on the impact of the package we are making. That package is not targeted, such as the abolition of the dividend tax. It's a wide package. In the broader package we already had in the field of business, we are trying to mitigate the risks as much as possible. Of course, we will also work hard to persuade these companies to stay here, but we do not know whether we can do that. We'll see that in the future. You can count on me, Menno Snel, the Secretary of State for Finance and the rest of the cabinet to do everything in my power to keep these companies here, because this is important to the Netherlands. These companies are not these two, but these multinational companies are responsible for 20% of our employment, 30% of our economy and 40% of our R&D expenditure in the Netherlands from the private sector. So they are vital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u446	Here we go again. I'm really offended by this. When we were here a month ago, the Prime Minister did not say: the future must show whether it is justified; we will have to wait and we will do our best. No, the Prime Minister said you're taking an irresponsible risk by not following me. What I'm asking him to do is take that back. I think he has no choice but to take back those words. Why? Because he himself now suggests that he did so yesterday by letter to make that decision in his words 'unaccountable'. You can tell me all about the content, but you cannot say here to the Chamber 'if you do not follow me, you are irresponsible' and then do it yourself. So do you take back those words, the qualification "unresponsible"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u447	Then Mr Asscher must tell the whole story. This was not only about whether or not the dividend tax is going to go ahead; it also had to do with the fact that most parties on the left-hand side of the Chamber felt that this money should then be spent consummately on further increasing public sector spending, which is already worth 6 billion. What we are doing now is, on the one hand, not taking this measure. We are putting that money into broadening the business package that lies ahead. In doing so, we try to mitigate the risks as much as possible. I don't know if that's enough. We're at risk. If the dividend tax is not abolished, we all run the risk that a number of companies will not opt for the Netherlands and that some of the largest companies may not remain in the Netherlands. We will work hard to prevent that, but of course it is about the whole story. It is not just the question: what are you doing with the dividend tax; are you taking that measure or not? That debate, of course, was also in the context of "what are you going to do with that money?" In my view, Mr Asscher did not intend to put that into a reduction in the burden on business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u448	Finally. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u449	In the handbook Debate by Rutte this is always part 3: you don't tell the whole story. We're gonna get the jerk-ass pajamas, they're all coming back. I wasn't telling a story; I asked you a question. That's bloody serious. You link the qualification "unresponsible risk" to the choice to do something you are now proposing. My question was not what else you have to say. I'm gonna listen to that later. My question was: do you take that "unresponsible" back, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u450	No, I just answered. We are trying to avoid this risk, and you have the difference between risk and irresponsible risk, as far as possible, because we are now broadening the business package that was already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u451	Is the Prime Minister going to defend an irresponsible risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u452	No, I don't think so. I say that we are trying to eliminate the difference between risk and irresponsible risk by spending that money in such a way that it can be spent widely in business and by working hard with those companies. But whether it happens or it turns out to be irresponsible and whether it will again, in this way, spend that 1.9 billion enough to keep these companies here, can be seen here. That is a common risk that we take here, as a political, as a Chamber in width and as a government. We will work hard to mitigate that risk as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u453	A decision has been made to release 2 billion. Fortunately, we have a good business in the Netherlands, but we also have millions of citizens watching this and wanting to know what will happen to the money. Would you like to look at the citizens, too? I have already indicated in an earlier debate this evening that there is no reduction in the burden on citizens. You just said that it's 6 billion in the drives and in the general tax rebate, that's right, but if you look at the total of the charges, next year, in 2019, you'll come up with an increase of 800 million, i.e. a reduction of 6 billion and an increase of 7 billion. Are you prepared to reverse this 800 million-dollar increase by using that space from that package?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u454	I note that people in the country will also notice from January that income tax is going to fall significantly. If you look at this entire period of the cabinet since the coalition agreement, it is a charge relief of 6.5 billion. The majority of this burden relief falls on the people in the country, on the workers and, of course, on the pensioners, i.e. on the people and not on the companies. It's 5.8 billion. I think that's the fact. That is what people will notice on 1 January and in the years after.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u455	I can only hold on for a moment, just like Mr Dijkhoff. The relief I just mentioned is 6 billion. The total of 15 measures, including the VAT increase of over 2 billion, is 7 billion. So we are talking about the VAT increase and ten other measures. The citizen has one advantage: a lower rate and a higher tax discount. But he's got 11 other setbacks. On balance, therefore, there is almost 1 billion increase for citizens. Then you should not say "there is 6 billion relief" when you do not want to acknowledge that there is 7 billion increase. That's very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u456	A significant increase in purchasing power has been forecast by the Central Planning Office from 1 January. You can also see it in the CPB figures. This is, of course, always a mix of an increase in contract wages in the public and private sector and a reduction in charges. Charge lighting contributes significantly to this. That is also true, because the burden on the people in the country alone will eventually be reduced by 5.8 billion. That was my point in the direction of Mr Wilders. He had the wish to fully compensate for the increase in the low VAT rate. This will be done well in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u457	I'll try one more time, otherwise I'll come back to it in second term. It is an explicit question: do you recognise that next year there will be an increase of 800 million? Would you say yes or no and not say that there is 6 billion reduction without telling and recognising that there is 7 billion increase in costs? That's independent of purchasing power tags. The increase in VAT and 10 other measures will increase the burden on citizens, and I have increased them all here by 7 billion, compared with 6 billion. That, on balance, is almost a billion increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u458	Firstly, measures taken by the cabinet since the government agreement over the entire cabinet period lead to a reduction of 6.5 billion. Those are the facts. Two is that we are not talking here today about relief for the people in the country, because it is already coming. That is one of the other things we do, just like investing in the public sector and putting public finances in order. We are talking today about another element in government policy, namely: how do you ensure that these taxes can also be paid in the future, so that we can invest in education and care? We do this by having a thriving business, from the smaller businessman to the big companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u459	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u460	My question was whether you are prepared to release the 800 million from that package. I will ask the question again, and later in the second term. Are you prepared to acknowledge that, otherwise, I will give you the figures straight away: next year there will be an increase in the burden for families, the citizens, of 800 million? And are you prepared to reconsider that and possibly release it in the 2 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u461	Again, over this cabinet period, the total burden is falling by 6.5 billion, and that for people in the country by 5.8 billion. In addition, of course, the companies also benefit from relief. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u462	I really think the Prime Minister's getting away with it tonight. The Prime Minister himself has chosen to use very, very big words in the discussion on abolishing the dividend tax. He denied the opposition that we would take irresponsible risks if we did not abolish the dividend tax. Apparently, he is now prepared to take those irresponsible risks. The proposal from the Court to look at alternatives to abolishing the dividend tax has been rejected by your cabinet. You didn't want to look at alternatives at all. Today you want to look at alternatives. Does the Prime Minister admit tonight that it was simply a bluff to tell the opposition here that irresponsible risks would be taken if the dividend tax were not abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u463	We will have to work hard to keep these companies in the Netherlands. The difference between a risk and an irresponsible risk will also be in it whether the package that is now in place contributes enough to encourage companies which would be particularly affected in a positive way by abolishing the dividend tax to make a positive decision. We'll have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u464	I really wonder whether Mr Rutte is aware tonight that this is also about his credibility and the credibility of his cabinet, if he thinks he can get rid of it so easily. It has come from the opposition: do you want to look at alternatives to abolishing the dividend tax? That's exactly what you've done. You didn't want to do it, because you said they were irresponsible risks and I'm not going to take them; that's not going to happen. The door was locked. The Prime Minister gambled and he lost. It would please him if he admitted that a little more tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u465	It is not the case that there is an alternative to abolishing the dividend tax that would have the same effect on some of our largest companies or other companies, in England, who are facing the question of where to settle, and on that large number of companies that are growing and wondering where in the world they are going to settle. That unequal playing field between London and Amsterdam, between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, on the issue of dividend taxation, is only eliminated by abolishing the dividend tax. The answer to the question of whether there is an alternative was and is: there is no alternative. What does it turn out to be? On the basis of everything that has happened, the cabinet has said: we are not going to go through with this measure, we are going to use that money now to further strengthen the package already in place in the area of strengthening our investment and location environment aimed at the larger and smaller businesses. We expect that this will remove some of the negative effects of not allowing the abolition of the dividend tax to continue. Whether that is sufficient will have to be proved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u466	This is the Prime Minister's well-known rattle about a level playing field and you name it all. The point is that the prospect of abolishing the dividend tax has not helped in Unilever's decision. Once again, it would be a credit to the Prime Minister if he at least acknowledged it. I would also like to ask this with a view to the future. The Prime Minister has chosen to make the abolition of dividend taxation his own personal project. Up to his fibers, he was willing to defend this. There was no argument that stood up, so he also threw his own credibility into battle. If we didn't do it, we'd be taking irresponsible risks. Does the Prime Minister realize what this means for the future? What are we supposed to think next time as a Chamber when the Prime Minister says: this is really necessary, otherwise you will take an irresponsible risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u467	Whether or not we succeed in eliminating the difference between an ordinary risk and an irresponsible risk with the package that lies ahead will have to tell the future. We're gonna have to work hard for that. But we're taking a risk. There is no alternative to the decision-making of this type of company, companies that are already partly in the Netherlands or possibly decide to come to the Netherlands, or large companies that are starting to wonder where in the world they are going to settle. In the Netherlands, Amsterdam and Eindhoven are regions where these large or larger companies like to establish themselves. We'll have to wait and see. We're gonna have to work hard for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u468	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u469	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. Tonight was a great opportunity for the Prime Minister to shed some light on his damaged credibility. He could have done two things. He could have said: I'm really listening to society now, I'm going to take the call from society seriously and invest that money in society. He won't. And the second thing he could have done here is to give the Chamber, to some extent to the opposition by saying: yes, you are right, I have gambled and I have lost. I conclude that the Prime Minister doesn't do either. That does not improve his own credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u470	Again. I said if we didn't do something, we'd take an irresponsible risk. The question now is whether, with this package, we are able to mitigate the difference between an irresponsible risk and an ordinary risk. We'll have to wait and see. There's no way to guarantee that. There was the opposition's proposal to spend the money on further increasing investment in the public sector. Yeah, that's gotta happen, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u471	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u472	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u473	I'm still working on it, Mr. Chairman. That's what the Cabinet does. That's where I thought we'd put $4 billion, but the NRC fact-check showed that it was $6 billion. That's good, too. We manage to reduce the burden on the people in the country. We manage to put public finances in order. And we manage to make a good package for our smaller and larger companies. Yeah, we're taking a risk now. Failure to abolish the dividend tax is a risk with a few of the largest Dutch companies plus all the other targets we just outlined with abolishing the dividend tax. The same applies to Mrs Marijnissen. This game is also for the opposition not a game without risks. We're all taking a risk with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u474	Mr. Chairman. We are not talking about a game here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u475	You'll have the floor in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u476	I'd like to finish the story anyway. That's a risk we'll all take. I am trying to give Mrs Marijnissen a good answer. That's a risk we'll all take. I think that with the package we have now, if we continue to work intensively with these companies, we will have a chance to try to adjust their decision-making in the right direction. But we'll have to wait and see. We're taking a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u477	Finally. A reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u478	I'm really charging the Prime Minister with this. He's talking about playing a game here. This isn't about playing a game. This is not about taking a gamble, as Mr Dijkhoff said. This is about 2 billion that belongs in society. I also object to the Prime Minister saying here tonight that if we do nothing, we will take an irresponsible risk. That's not correct. He said if we do not abolish the dividend tax, we will take an irresponsible risk. I'm asking the Prime Minister to respond to that. I notice he doesn't do that over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u479	What I said is this. If you look at what the opposition wants to use the 1.9 billion during the General Reviews... Yes, does Mrs Marijnissen want to hear the answer or not? In the General Reviews, the opposition wanted to spend 1.9 billion consumers on spending in the public sector: education, health care and other matters. What we are doing now is not allowing a targeted measure to go ahead. In doing so, we are all taking a risk, with a few large companies but also with all the other decisions that still have to be taken. And when I say "game," I don't mean "game." I mean by that that we, as a political collective, are taking a risk. The opposition is taking that risk and the government is taking that risk. I think that is a sensible course of action given the situation we are dealing with and the decisions we have now taken to spend the money, but we are taking a risk. Life is rarely risk-free, so we have to deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u480	I'd like to make a point. From the opposition, Mr Asscher has indicated the other ways in which you could spend the money and what that means. I have not heard from the rest of the opposition that that was the way to spend it; not by a long shot. So if the Prime Minister now suggests that the opposition had the idea of spending it immediately and that the entire opposition wanted it, that's not right. I'll walk with the Prime Minister. My question to him is: how much does it cost not to abolish the dividend tax on jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u481	We'll have to see about that. We will have to see how many companies that might have decided to come to the Netherlands do not do that. That will always be difficult to measure, but that will have to be demonstrated in the near future. We can see it now in Dutch bonus policy. It is cabinet policy, and I support that, that we also have the bonus cap for companies not covered by the deposit guarantee scheme. But you can already see that it means that the financial institutions do not choose the Netherlands. Yeah, that's a consequence of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u482	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u483	But that is a visible consequence of a political decision taken by Dutch politics. I'm defending that decision and I'm trying...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u484	That's not what this is about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u485	No, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u486	Mr President, perhaps it is useful... Then I'll listen to Mr. Azarkan. That is the result of a decision that you take politically together at some point. And I believe that there is also broad support in this Chamber for the decision not to remove the bonus cap, not even for companies that are not covered by the DGs. In the coming period it will have to be seen how high the risk is that we and some of the largest Dutch companies will run. We will work hard for that and we hope that this package will contribute to it. The package is therefore not an alternative with the same target range as abolishing the dividend tax; it is a different way of spending the money released by not abolishing the dividend tax in such a way that it benefits businesses, small and large.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u487	This ain't no way to run the country, is it? You're not going to say in advance: I'm taking a measure and I have no idea exactly how it works; I'm going to measure it afterwards? I am asking the Prime Minister, and the people in the country are simply watching what the assessment has been. Is it between zero and infinite? Or has the Prime Minister thought and with very smart people around him figured out how many jobs it's about? What are we gonna miss or what are we gonna get? What will happen in the future? Take us with you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u488	I believe that we discussed this very extensively on the morning of the General Reviews. This was about the risks that the cabinet sees when it comes to Dutch business, and especially that part of Dutch business that is also oriented towards England in terms of location or in part there, plus the companies that are in charge of the choice where they are going to settle, also because of a Brexit. How does that work out? That Brexit has less effect on companies like Unilever and Shell, because they are so big that they work worldwide. But there are a lot of smaller companies that are very sensitive because of the Brexit and wonder again where they will settle. We know that from all the contacts we have. I can't talk about that in public, but of course we know that there are companies interested: where should we sit? At least we know at the moment that the financial institutions are not coming to the Netherlands, but that has something quite different to do with it. I think it is important for the Netherlands that we try to get as many of the industrialised companies as possible who are wondering where they will settle. We know that abolishing the dividend tax removes an important negative element. Well, we're not making that decision right now, so we're taking a risk with that. Is it unacceptable? I hope and expect that, with the package we have now, we will be able to eliminate as much as possible the difference between a risk and an unacceptable risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u489	It remains with a qualitative assessment. I'm asking the Prime Minister to just give us some figures. How many jobs are we talking about? In principle, he was talking about 2 million and about the structure of our economy. None of that seems to be left, so my question to the Prime Minister is: approximate, how many jobs are involved in abolishing the dividend tax and how many jobs are involved in taking these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u490	We had that discussion at length at the General Political Reviews in September. Then I replied that it is almost impossible to calculate the exact number of pin points of the precise effect of a tax measure. You know what the consequences of policy are. That's what you're seeing right now. Those consequences of policy are visible. We hope that they will not become visible when it comes to refusing to abolish the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u491	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u492	Yes, Chairman, finally. I just can't get an answer to my question. Apparently, there are numbers. Apparently, there are companies that have been analyzed and have a chance to come or stay here. The Prime Minister just doesn't want to share that. I'm just really curious how many jobs this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u493	We're not working in isolation, are we? We're working in a situation where major changes in the world are going on right now, aren't we? Brexit is a very relevant development. It touches less on a company like Unilever or Shell, because these companies operate worldwide. But smaller companies, which are very relevant in size, now also face the question of whether they stay in England or not. In the British press, we have all been able to follow the discussion in the British car industry and in so many other industrial sectors. They wonder whether with all the risks of the Brexit, which means that even if it goes well, a much greater distance between the UK and the European internal market can still be established in England. We'll have to wait and see. The fact is that one of the aims of abolishing the dividend tax was to contribute to such decisions in the right direction. We hope that this package will do so to some extent, but this package, of course, has a much broader effect. It's not specifically aimed at solving that problem. This means that there is still a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u494	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u495	Then, I think, it would be wise to invest more in real SMEs, namely those few thousand butchers and bakers. Because we know one thing: they're not going to England.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u496	And so we do. You gotta do it You can't just invest in big business. This cabinet invests very heavily in education through all kinds of measures. There are many measures in the field of taxation, including for SMEs. Look at what was already burden relief for SMEs in the Millions Note. Look also at what is now in the package of reductions in employers' costs. In this way, we are also trying to meet small and medium-sized enterprises in a variety of ways. It's always gonna have to be and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u497	Before I give you the floor, Mr. Klaver, I would like to know how many questions the Prime Minister is going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u498	Actually, I only have one question left. But as I predicted, the number of questions I'm going to answer will be of limited significance for the duration of my standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u499	The Prime Minister keeps on going around the hot tub. This debate on dividend taxation was not only about a tax measure, but about who is in charge in the Netherlands. Citizens have the idea that one enterprise has more to say than the entire House of Representatives and the people who live in this country. The Prime Minister has told us here that it is an irresponsible risk not to abolish the dividend tax; not to do nothing, no, not to abolish the dividend tax. He's doing it himself, damn it. If he takes back those words and lets the Netherlands know that he was wrong, it will be his fault. It's not an irresponsible risk. That's what I expect from him now. Take those words back!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u500	We've had that discussion a few times now. I have explained to Mr Klaver that the cabinet will use the money that is exempt from the dividend tax to strengthen the package that was already in place. This concerns the whole fiscal environment around our smaller and large businesses. We hope, therefore, that we will be able to mitigate the consequences of not allowing the abolition of the dividend tax to continue. But that will be limited, because it cannot focus on the companies concerned in this case. So that's going to have to be in width. We also need to see if we can move these companies to the Netherlands, if they are or are not on the eve of the decision where they are going to settle. But there's that risk. There's a risk now. I have already said a few times that it will have to be made clear whether that is irresponsible. In any case, we are trying to eliminate the irresponsible part of the risk with this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u501	It's not my argument that it's irresponsible. We have been saying for the last year that there are no irresponsible risks if you do not abolish the dividend tax. It was the Prime Minister who stood here, who said: it is really irresponsible, really, I feel deep down that it is irresponsible if we do not abolish the dividend tax. And now he says: with some other measures we can try to contain the risk. All life is risk, doing things and not doing things. That's not the point. It's about whether you're abolishing the dividend tax, whether it's necessarily necessary. I'm glad the Cabinet says it's not necessarily necessary. It would be a good thing for the Prime Minister if he didn't turn around here, but simply says: I was wrong, it's not an irresponsible risk, because we can also take other measures. Just say that! That is an important step at the beginning of restoring confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u502	I refer to my previous answer, which was precisely intended to respond to Mr Klaver's question in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u503	It's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u504	Certainly, Mr President, but it was in no way a substantive answer. He refers with a bunch of words to what the cabinet does. I have been able to read that and have been able to hear it four times or perhaps more from this Prime Minister. He's not going into it because he's afraid to. The Prime Minister is afraid to deal with the irresponsible risk. If you have real guts and if you're really talking about taking responsibility as the leader of this country, you'd say it when you're wrong. Then you'd say it wasn't an irresponsible risk. Then you say: it was a risk, but I'm going to take it, because apparently, even if we abolish the dividend tax, companies don't come to the Netherlands. That's leadership, and the Prime Minister should show it here. Just say it! It wasn't an irresponsible risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u505	Mr Klaver has now repeated that question three times. I answered him the first time and I refer him to that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u506	Mr President, I am sorry, but this is an important point in the debate. Mr Rutte can easily stand here a little casually, hand in the pocket, and wave it away by saying: it has been asked three times and I have already answered it three times. But we're not getting an answer because he's afraid to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u507	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u508	He does not dare to say here that it is not an irresponsible risk, and that does not suit him. I've never seen the Prime Minister like that in those eight years. He was always the one to say here: I was wrong; we should have done this differently. I've heard him apologize a lot. But right now, now that he may, as he himself said, have gotten the biggest scratch in his political career, he doesn't say anything. He tries to act nonchalant here again as if nothing is going on, but the Netherlands is not crazy. The voter will see this and the Prime Minister will take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u509	But whether this is a scratch is really a different discussion. Yeah, it's a scratch. You're trying to defend the proposal to abolish the dividend tax. I have often said that gaining support for this could still gain strength; that has not gone brilliantly. If then a large company decides not to come to the Netherlands, that is of course a disappointment. Is that a scratch? It's a scratch. But I also said that that's my job. If my job was to prevent scratches, I wouldn't do my job. My job is to collect as many scratches as possible; hopefully a few things go well now and then. I think a few things go well every now and then, but things also go wrong. It's part of driving. It's part of taking responsibility. Now back to the issue that Mr Klaver is now referring to for the fourth time. I'll give you the answer I've given a few times. The package that is now before us cannot be a targeted solution such as not abolishing the dividend tax. That is not possible, because only one measure can do that very specifically, aimed at those few companies plus other companies in a similar position, which could decide to come to the Netherlands because of the Brexit. We can't take that kind of measure right now. That's a risk you're taking. Is it irresponsible? My answer to Mr Klaver's question is: we hope and expect to have material in our hands with the package that is now in place to minimise the risk that we are taking together now, and that is reasonable. Whether it is irresponsible will soon have to be demonstrated by the decisions of these companies. We are, of course, going to try and do our best to move these companies to stay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u510	Mr Van Rooijen. Or Mr Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u511	I thought I was early, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u512	Thank you to Mr Van Rooijen. I would like to make one comment on this point. The Prime Minister is going here as a child who is always making up other excuses, pretending that the word 'unresponsible' was about consumer spending, the counter-budget or the opposition. But it's not. We looked at it for a moment: he said three times in Question Time on 11 September that not abolishing the dividend tax is an irresponsible risk that this coalition will not take it. But that is exactly the proposal that was sent to us yesterday. You can come up with all sorts of things, but then it's not weird when the Chamber asks you to take back the word "unresponsible." Otherwise, it's impossible to rhyme. Then the Prime Minister would say: I still think it is irresponsible, but I would suggest it to you. Then you do not come up with: we try to bridge the distance between irresponsible and responsible. We don't have a translation service here that makes us think every time the Prime Minister says something, he says "unresponsible," but he means "a bit of a risk and I'll give it to you." So I'm asking the Prime Minister to reflect. He calls it "a scratch," but it's much more than that. It's a lot more than that when you say something here and you're not willing to take it back. Yeah, leadership is about making mistakes, but that also includes admitting a mistake. And this was a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u513	One. The question that was always raised by all these debates was: is there an alternative that has the same effect? No, because these companies do not benefit from a reduction in the dividend tax: it has to go back to zero if you want to achieve the possible effect. That's argument one. Discussion two is: if there isn't, what does that mean for the risks? An irresponsible risk when it comes to those companies, I think I have rightly said. We are now withdrawing this measure and we are coming up with another package. This package contains all kinds of measures to strengthen the investment climate in the Netherlands. They are not aimed at this type of company and at this type of problem. But we do hope, and we expect, of course, to have talks with these companies that we have material in our hands. But that's not as good as what was there, and that's why there's a real risk now. Whether this is unacceptable will have to be proved. But with this package we are able to talk to these companies, and of course with all the other companies. We could say, "Look what's here. In this way we try to strengthen the Dutch economy across the board and make it attractive for you as companies to stay here." But we can't do that particular point of removing the playing field. That is the political conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u514	The Prime Minister is now pretending that the great plan to abolish the dividend tax is now completely out of his debt and as if something suddenly happened. But it was a text message from Paul Polman, which now makes you take this irresponsible risk. When I hear the Prime Minister like that, why doesn't he just defend the perseverance of it? It's two-and-a-half. Or you think it's an irresponsible risk. Then you should not take that risk: you are expected to do so as Prime Minister. Or you think it's a responsible risk. And then you take back your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u515	I said, even yesterday when I came out of the meeting where it was decided how to deal with this, that if we now look at the situation as it is, namely Unilever's decision we are not doing it for one company, but it is a relevant decision if such a large company decides not to come to the Netherlands and the discussion about it, we have decided to use that money in a different way. By using it in a different way, you cannot take the targeted measure necessary to eliminate the risk that this type of large companies will not eventually come to the Netherlands or stay in the Netherlands. So we can't do that now, because we can't make that decision. We are, of course, trying to ensure that the whole package that is now in place, which also contains attractive elements for large companies, could lead them to make the right decision. Is that gonna be a pretty risky thing to do? Yes. Is it irresponsible? That's gonna have to prove it. With this package of material we think we have in our hands to have that conversation with these companies in a fair manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u516	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u517	Finally. Dutch people have seen that it was not a good idea. But I think Dutch people understand that sometimes you make a mistake, especially if you do it in good intentions. I believe that. But what we don't understand is that if you make such a mistake, you'll persist in it this way. What we don't understand is that you make people think they're taking an irresponsible risk. That is the worst thing you can say to this Chamber and to anyone who dares to doubt such a measure. And then you do it yourself and you don't have the greatness to take it back and say in your own words: "That might have been a little too tough. I tried to convince you, but I shouldn't have." I find that incredibly small, and I don't think I'm the only one. This makes the Prime Minister's own leadership much smaller than necessary. He's making a mistake. That's one thing. He won't admit it. That's two. And three. He's twisting the facts here, pretending to be talking about something else. Extraordinary sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u518	In doing so, Louis Asscher narrows down the issue or the discussion of the last two months. Of course, this discussion has been going on for a long time. That discussion, and also the discussion here in the Chamber, has been taking place since the formation. We saw in February/March of this year that one of the largest Dutch companies at board and management level decided to come to the Netherlands. It was said: "In our assessment it has been important that there should now be a level playing field between England and the Netherlands as regards dividend taxation." And wherever the disappointment of me is, and whatever the scratch it's in, and what obviously didn't go well last week, is that the company eventually had to establish that there was insufficient support from its own shareholders. That had nothing to do with abolishing the dividend tax or not, but with other factors, at least if we can believe the company's communications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u519	The Prime Minister has already said a number of times that he realized in everything that has been proposed that companies are going or leaving, or other companies are not coming to the Netherlands from elsewhere. But if I note that we have the lowest dividend tax in Europe, apart from England, and that we have the lowest corporation tax in Europe, apart from England, then we have a fantastic locational environment, which is by far determined not only by fiscal factors, but also by infrastructure, education and so on. We have the best locational environment, regardless of taxation, and certainly included. Why did you make that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u520	Because of this particular problem of companies located in both Britain and the Netherlands and companies in Britain that have to decide where to go. They are often interested in the Netherlands, precisely for the reasons mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen: because we are a beautiful country with a nice locational climate. Lowering the dividend tax or maintaining the relatively low rate of dividend tax currently in place is not the solution for them. Their problem is not the level of the dividend tax, but the fact that that dividend tax exists. This creates an additional complexity within these companies, which ultimately leads to a lower overall value of those companies. So, at a time when there is cheap money, when these companies are at risk of being taken over or becoming takeover prey, they say: we have to ask ourselves where we are going to settle. It is therefore important to abolish the dividend tax. We have now decided not to, for all the reasons we have discussed. We have now made a package with which we are trying to further strengthen the good location climate outlined by Mr Van Rooijen. That's what we're gonna do. Mr Van Rooijen says: give extra to the people in the country. We are already doing a great deal and are choosing to put this into the further strengthening of the job engine, namely small and large businesses. It is also important for the people in the country to do so, but it is not possible to take that measure in a targeted way. We hope, of course, that this package as a whole will help to adjust the dialogue with these companies as much as possible. The discussion with Mr Asscher was about: is there still a risk? Yes, of course there is still a serious risk. We can't be sure yet how that's gonna turn out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u521	I note that the Prime Minister did so last Tuesday, and he is doing so again on Tuesday, in fact, the whole question of the locational climate is limited to the question of whether there are English companies coming to the Netherlands or Dutch companies going to England. That's how I heard him. If it isn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u522	No, no, I'm not. Mr President, may I respond, if Mr Van Rooijen will allow me to do so? That's not my point. Indeed, I agree with Mr Van Rooijen that the location climate is much more inclusive, such as infrastructure, the fact that we have the most beautiful road system in this part of Europe, that we have one of the best education systems in Europe, that we have the best health care in Europe anyway. We're just a fantastic country. Your children can cycle to school here, we have good English language education and the best opera companies and orchestras are in the Netherlands. Also think of our Rijksmuseum, our Mauritshuis, our whole rock and pop culture and all that stuff. Everything we have is fantastic. People want to live here and want to be here. But taxation is also involved. What is the role of this type of British-Dutch companies? This problem is very specific because they are currently faced with the fact that there is a lot of cheap money and even the largest companies in the world are at risk of being taken over. They have to deal with a discount on their value, simply because of the complexity of the business because it is based in two countries, in one country with dividend tax and not in the other. That's where it was. We are not taking this measure now and are, of course, talking to these companies to see if we can convince them to stay here, precisely with the arguments Mr Van Rooijen is using here and which we are now strengthening further with this adjustment. Then it's about width and not depth on that particular problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u523	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u524	But the Prime Minister is not answering my question as to whether the defence of the abolition of the dividend tax was not specifically directed at Dutch-English companies going to one side or the other. That's what he's walking past now, saying once and again that that's actually the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u525	That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u526	Yes, so you agree with me that you did it to protect the English-Dutch territory in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u527	Yeah, that's where it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u528	But was it then worth it to you to do this only for those few companies? It is perhaps three or four people who are already in the Netherlands, or want to come to England and here? You're not going to spend 2 billion on that every year, are you? That's not justified, is it? That's got to be all over the world's business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u529	To Mr. Van Rooijen, I'd like to say that it's not just about those two companies. It is also about other companies that want to go to other countries because of Brexit, are often interested in the Netherlands and are now faced with that unequal playing field. It is also about those fast-growing companies that are somewhere in the world, wanting to establish themselves in Europe and because of our fantastic IT infrastructure, which I can also mention in relation to the locational climate in the Netherlands. It's all about those reasons. Mr Van Rooijen now says: wait a minute, the direct cause was two large companies, perhaps three, but at least two, namely Shell and Unilever. But these two companies represent 40% to 50% of the stock exchange in Amsterdam. They are the largest company in Europe and the second largest company on the English Stock Exchange. It is unique that these companies are here: such large companies in such a small country. This has a lot of spin-off in employment in the subcontracting industry, from R&D to taxi drivers. The General Reviews were about the taxi drivers in Rotterdam, who were interviewed in the evening in Nieuwsuur. There was a Moroccan taxi driver who said: Mr. Rutte, he's a smart guy; he's probably right. I'd like to thank that man for that kindness in this debate. I disappoint him now, because we cannot take the measure now. So it is relevant, also for those two companies. It's not just for that, but if that were to go away, it would have a huge wrinkle effect, at our Amsterdam fair alone. If this stock market gets so much smaller, it is less likely that new companies will want to settle in the Netherlands and go to the stock market. It all has effects. We have to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u530	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u531	Well, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u532	Here you give the best defense for maintaining the abolition of dividend tax, because you say that these two big companies are so essential to the Netherlands that we take irresponsible risks if we do not do so. You're really reuniting it to two companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u533	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u534	The rest of the world can invest across Europe. These countries all have a higher dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u535	No, I'm not taking it into those two companies. But I met Mr Van Rooijen because he said that those two companies are not so relevant. Those two companies are very relevant. I'm a historian, and in history, of course, you have cause and cause. There is a much broader reason, namely Brexit and all those other companies that need to settle down. But, of course, there is also a cause. It lies in the fact that a number of companies now have to ask themselves, because of that cheap money, where are we going to settle? Even if you did it just because of that cause and not because of the cause. We're doing it because of the cause, but let's say you're only doing it because of the cause. This was the subject of the discussion I had with Mr Van Rooijen in the last interruption. Even then, it is very damaging if these two companies leave, also because of the effects on, for example, the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Suppose one of these shows loses 40% or 50% of its value. These two companies together do about the same size as the other 23 AEX funds. If they go away, it will of course have consequences for the question of whether other companies want to go to the stock market. Those are all effects that we have to consider. So we're taking a risk there now. This was the subject of discussion with Mr Asscher. The question is whether it is unacceptable. We hope to mitigate that aspect as much as possible with the package that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u536	Mr. Baudet, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u537	Yeah, two short things. Is this about establishment or is it about the danger that Unilever would be taken over by other investors? That is what I keep hearing the Prime Minister say between the noses and the lips. Wasn't he actually trying to protect Unilever from taking over? Is that what he was talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u538	We are doing this because the company itself had announced: we want to go completely to one nationality. The company said: we are going to decide whether to go to the UK or to the Netherlands. They have never been open about what they have told the Dutch government about it, so I cannot do that either. Shell's been very open about that. We know Shell has been pleading for this for a long time and is also suffering from that cheap money. The fact of the matter is that Unilever became takeover prey last year from Kraft Heinz, and I say it out of my head for a moment, about 130 billion threatened to be taken over. Murder and fire have rightly been shouted about, even here in the Chamber and in the Cabinet. We did everything we could ourselves to see how we could help the company turn down that takeover. Eventually, the company has to do it itself. What's the fact? You do this because a company has announced: we will decide whether to go to London or Rotterdam. That company takes that decision, of course, as a result of Kraft Heinz's takeover attempt. They've been very open about that, too. After that, they accelerated the margarine division. They have also taken a number of other decisions and they have said that they are going to simplify their structure, because of this takeover attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u539	On the contrary, it is easier to take over a company based in London than to take over a company based in the Netherlands, precisely because of the protection structures, which protect not functioning management here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u540	Well, you can say a lot about that. By the way, this company had also recently announced that they did not want to use that protection structure. But that's up to the company. I'm just quoting their press releases. That's not up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u541	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u542	I also heard the Prime Minister say that the abolition of the dividend tax was intended to bring fast-growing IT companies from the rest of the world here. But especially these fast-growing IT companies, start-ups and so on are not paying dividends at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u543	It's just a question of how they end up going to a stock market and how they're going to focus... Of course, when they're eventually bigger, they're also gonna pay dividends. If they're still growing, they keep it in the company to invest. But look at what is going on in this sector, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u544	They've never paid dividends.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u545	Amsterdam and the western part of the Netherlands together are the same size as Silicon Valley. Both have a turnover of about 400 billion. The only truly competitive alternative in the world outside Israel, because Israel has yet another very specific IT sector for Silicon Valley at the moment, is Amsterdam and the surroundings of North and South Holland. We have a unique feature there because of our connectivity, because of the fact that we are completely connected to the latest, most modern internet connections. It is really three times more modern than in Germany or France.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u546	I couldn't agree more, but this has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u547	I'm gonna finish this. Plus the culture of course and the interesting appeal of Amsterdam as a place to live for young people. Those companies are about to make their choice. What is Amsterdam's biggest competitor? Not Paris, not Barcelona, not Frankfurt or Berlin. Amsterdam's main competitor is London, because London next to Amsterdam is currently one of the hippest, funniest cities in Europe to live in. So that's what you're dealing with. And so these companies are going to see what the fiscal climate is. That was one of the reasons, not in the cause perhaps, but in the cause, for taking this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u548	I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u549	I am pleased that the Prime Minister at least recognises that Brexit will not be a reason for international companies not to settle in London, on the contrary, and that all his doom scenarios about how bad it will be in the UK may have served his personal career interests in the EU rather than being a real analysis of the economic prospects of the United Kingdom. Well, that turned out to be the case today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u550	I suggest you answer the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u551	Mr. Chairman. The last question I have is about the session last week with the blinded vans. I didn't order those vans. You should ask VNO or whoever organized it, why they came in those vans. I was a little late myself, and I saw them leave in those vans but I didn't get there. It was a good conversation. We have talked about the European Union and we have talked about the wider locational environment in the Netherlands. We have not talked about taxation nor about dividend taxation. We have mainly talked about the relationship between companies, politics and government. I've made a few suggestions on my part. I said I think they should be more visible. If there's a hearing here with ING, the President-in-Office should go to the Chamber and not the Chief Risk Officer. That's the kind of groceries I've been giving you. I understand that Mr Wijers has now told the Chamber not to be able to do so on the date invested, but to be there when the date is set. So that is already a concrete outcome. I'm happy about that. So I said that they should become more visible. I have outlined that in the eighties there were people like Maljers and Wagner. Well, of course you had the remains of real socialism in the Netherlands then, so I understand that companies were perhaps more active in the media for that reason. I'm glad that's over now. But despite the fact that we are now a more liberal country, I think they should be more visible in society. We need to be more visible on television. Must explain what they're doing. If ING is confronted with what they are facing, they have to explain. If Shell and Unilever and other companies find out everything about the locational climate, they must speak actively on television. Secondly, they must also seek much broader contact with you, the Chamber, with you, so in society seek the debate. Then the tables, as they are called nowadays, are often a wonderful instrument in all these talk programmes. But also to the chamber. I also hope, of course, that you, as a Chamber of Commerce, if I may say so, are available to receive them when they call. I say this in all modesty, because I'm not going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u552	One question at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u553	One more question. Unilever said: because the debate in the Chamber was so disappointing, so difficult, so uncertain, we decided to call it off. Suppose tonight or tomorrow morning you get a second text message, in the vein of: we have seen the debate in the Chamber and are going to settle in the Netherlands anyway. Are you going to try to abolish the dividend tax again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u554	Well, Mr. President... How that contact went that morning: I never talk about those kinds of confidential contacts. There's been so much writing about it. I am not saying that it is all true, there is really much more to be said about it, namely. Anyway, regardless of how it went that Friday morning, this is one of those like-dan questions. This decision is now before us and I do not go into all sorts of completely theoretical...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u555	Then I'm going to see Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u556	First of all... As a multinational, Panasonic simply came to the Netherlands from England. So there really are more considerations to come to the Netherlands. In addition, the Prime Minister did not answer my questions. So I'd like to mark that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u557	I'm sorry, what question was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u558	The Prime Minister himself said that the Netherlands stands for a strong and safe economy. Anyway, the Monitor Brede Prosperity has shown that it is not sustainable. So, as the minister gambled and lost with the dividend tax, he can do that for reasons that he now gambles a little with the climate. At least that was our position. Is he prepared to take the necessary measures to curb that danger with the space that has been released by not abolishing the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u559	I say to Mr Van Raan that I, also encouraged by Mr Buma during the General Reviews, have been renewed in recent weeks, together with Stef Blok and other colleagues in the Cabinet, such as Sigrid Kaag and Eric Wiebes in Europe, I have been carrying out the Dutch climate objectives. As you know, we are looking at 49% and we would like Europe to go to 55%. But in the end, Europe will decide and what it will become will become our final point of reference. Of course, we want that to be as high as possible. At the moment, I can really see that we are among the most ambitious Member States in Europe. I need you all to do that. I do not believe that the problem at the moment is that the Netherlands has too soft climate targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u560	I don't agree with the Prime Minister. What he describes is the outcome of a political trial that apparently represents what can be politically and not what is necessary at the moment, as the IPCC says and as the court found in the Urgenda case. So there really is a big difference between that and I hope that the Prime Minister is aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u561	We have said specifically about the Urgenda statement that we are carrying it out of course. We're considering cassation. That is not because we would like to be right in terms of content, but because we have a view on where decisions of this kind should be taken. Is that with the judge or, as we find, in politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u562	Short question at this point, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u563	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have the political question of not including the reduction of the tax on profits in the 2019 Tax Plan, in order to ensure that we can look next year, including with the opposition, in what way we can spend that money at the very best. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so? I ask the Prime Minister because it is not so much a technical question to the Secretary of State as a political question. This is about the outstretched hand of the opposition to see how you get on with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u564	But he's also political. He's not a civil servant. He's a secretary of state. We'd have done it in the role-sharing now. I suggest that this be done by the Secretary of State. And perhaps we can make an appointment in case Mr Klaver wants to have an overall political judgement on it after that. I will go along with what the Secretary of State has said, but I could say that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u565	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u566	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I realize that I will probably take care of the dessert of this debate. I'll try to serve a modest dessert, with some questions. They're technical. I love to give a lot of technical answers. I'm from Finance, so if it's okay, I'm gonna play them with a lot of numbers. But if there are political questions, as I say in the direction of Mr Klaver, I am also welcome. Let me start by answering a question that came along a few times, but was never asked specifically and constantly sketching the picture that the cabinet would give 4 billion in gifts to large business through a Vpb reduction. That came back a few times. The Prime Minister briefly mentioned it, but I would also like to do it because it is important that that image does not linger. In addition to the reduction in corporate tax, there are also a considerable number of basic measures in the package. So where you could say that the rates are down by 4 billion, you could also say that the base is widened by 3.6 billion. On balance, that is indeed a reduction. It alone is not 4 billion, but only 0.5 billion. This is important, also in the discussion we had on nominal rates and effective rates. I shall come back to that in a moment in response to Mr Van Raan. The Dutch effective rate is only going down by 0.5 billion, and not by 4 billion as suggested in the questions asked and the comments made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u567	The broadening of the basis is due to the fact that agreements have finally been reached in Europe on tackling tax avoidance. So we are going to broaden the base because too little tax was paid by large companies. And now we say "yes, we did it, we closed the holes in the profit tax" and then we say, "Well, that's super bullshit, now those companies have to pay a $3 billion more, so we lower the tax.'. Isn't that what's happening? We wanted more revenue from the income tax because those companies were systematically paying too little tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u568	I think Mr Klaver is confusing two things here. First of all, I think that Mr Klaver still supports the agenda of tax avoidance and does not see it as a failure to reduce the VAT rate. Moreover, we are not only reducing the burden because Europe wants us to do so. Many of our basic measures are also in measures that the Netherlands itself chooses. In this way, we reduce the write-off of buildings, we have a minimum capital regime, we reduce the loss regime and indeed we also implement the European ATAD 1 Directive. I can mention one more: higher rate innovation box. These are all measures taken explicitly by the Netherlands and this cabinet itself, which are fundamental.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u569	If you speak neatly, you may speak again, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u570	I always choose my own words, Mr. Chairman. The whole point is not who chose it, whether it be Europe or the Netherlands. It's very good that we stop the base erosion. I've always complimented you for that. The point is, if you stop that base erosion, you don't have to give it back on the other side with a tariff cut, because then it doesn't matter that much. It is about ensuring that this basis is not further undermined and that companies pay their fair share in our society, their fair share in care, education and the roads we drive. Then it is simply returned with a tariff reduction. That's what happens. That is why we can certainly talk about 4 billion that business gets as a gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u571	That's incorrect. Businesses do not get a gift of 4 billion, because it also pays the basic broadening of 3.6 billion itself. So that we would give a gift of 4 billion is simply wrong. I'll stick with that. That is also apparent from the figures. Moreover, I would like to point out to Mr Klaver that the idea that it does not matter whether something is broadening the basis or reducing the rate is also incorrect. Generally speaking, the lower your rate and the wider your base, the greater the economic growth. If that is not believed from the GroenLinks group, then they will read the planning agency's report nicely. At least I believe in it. This cabinet strongly believes in it. We choose to lower the rates and broaden the base because we know that this is more effective than very high rates with many base narrowers, as a country like France does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u572	Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State on nominal rates versus effective rates. Those were absolute figures, but I actually asked for percentages. The theorem was: we know the nominal figures of corporation tax, but we don't really know the effective figures because a lot of corporate tax, which is paid, is sometimes hidden in rulings, which are not public. So we cannot know what the final effective corporate tax rate was there. Could the Secretary of State still reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u573	Sure. Thank you for asking Mr Van Raan to do so. I had him in my set a little later, but I can do it right now. It is indeed easy to compare statutory rates. That's right. We can just publish it. We do that a lot. It has just been suggested that we in Europe would have the second lowest rate. That's not true. We're about number 10. But more important, of course, is the effective pressure. Only the problem of effective pressure is that it often depends on the individual company. What about it? What kind of deductions do they have? How do they deal with loss relief? That is difficult, so the maximum you can do is to depict a fictional effective tax burden; that is what the European Commission and the OECD are doing for us. By doing so, they try to capture the average of base narrowers. Those lists also show that the Netherlands has a relatively small difference between the nominal rate and the effective rate. We can make an estimate of this and that can be found in all kinds of publications, but it is a matter of the Netherlands deliberately choosing to reduce tariffs and broaden the basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u574	I understand. If I have listened to the Secretary of State correctly, he is actually saying that the difference between the nominal rate and the statutory rate, as he calls it, and the fictitious, effective rate is very small.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u575	In the Netherlands relatively small, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u576	Thank you. Then I got that right. But the Secretary of State probably agrees with us that we cannot know the situation for the Netherlands because we do not know the rulings. Well, that's true, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u577	No, that's also a misunderstanding. In rulings, no agreement is made on a rate. They cannot therefore lead to a lower effective rate than has been agreed. A ruling is not a deal with which you can negotiate the price. A ruling is nothing more than a laying down of the existing laws and regulations for a company. Therefore, a ruling cannot lead to a lower effective rate than you would otherwise have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u578	Finally, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u579	That is then important to mark, because then the Secretary of State says: a ruling cannot lead to a lower effective tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u580	No, the ruling leads to an exactly as high an effective tax as if you had not given a ruling. For the ruling is simply the explanation of existing laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u581	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u582	Mr. Chairman. Mr Klaver asked why the reduction of the Vpb is actually now regulated in the Tax Plan. There are a few reasons for that. The main reason, of course, lies in the fact that we like to give business security in terms of economic growth and employment, so that they know where they stand. The long-term fixing of proposed tariffs is something we always do. That is what we have done in this coalition agreement. In the last Millions note we also showed the annual series for the next four years, so investors know where they stand in the Netherlands. That is extremely important and we want it to be. That's actually the most important reason why we're doing that. There is also a technical reason, namely that we have a trendary fiscal policy and budgetary rules. They indicate that there is a revenue framework that you set out for a multiannual period. There was now an amount of 1.9 billion. Well, that's gonna be a little different now. At the same time, you need to fill in alternative burden-relieving measures, and we do so in the 2019 Tax Plan package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u583	Mr. Klaver wants to interrupt. Secretary of State, how many questions do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u584	Three very little ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u585	Finish it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u586	There was another comment from Mr Wilders: business profits have almost doubled since the turn of the century. That is true in nominal euros. At the same time, we must not forget that the economy has also doubled. So if you look at that percentage based on the whole economy, it's actually surprisingly constant. The same applies to Vpb revenues in the total tax mix or related to revenues. Then you can see that in the last 15 years they have actually been quite consistent about 9% of total tax and contribution receipts. That goes down a little bit in the business cycle, but if you take the 15 years, we're pretty much constant. So the idea that they were going to pay much less compared to the turn of the century or 15 years ago compared to citizens is not entirely justified. Mr Van der Staaij has asked why we do not use the 1.9 billion to reduce public debt. I am from the Ministry of Finance, so I think that is by definition an interesting idea. The same answer applies as I just gave. We have, of course, made an agreement on trendary fiscal policies and rules on the budget, in which a path of reducing burdens was agreed. If we did not comply with that, we would actually have to adapt those agreements. We don't want that. The choice was really to keep the road the same. Hopefully, therefore, I would say to Mr van der Staaij that in the last five years we have managed to reduce the debt from 68% of GDP to 49% of GDP. In itself, therefore, we have already managed to achieve some kind of debt reduction over the past five years. Mr. Chairman. Mr Segers asked me if he could assume that the reduction in employer's labour costs was the package that stood at 200 million in 2021 and would be used to reduce the Aof premiums or to reduce the WW premiums. The answer is that we have not yet completed it. It's an open rule for a reason. We do have a little time to do that, by the way. We do not necessarily have to deal with this now, because it will start in 2021. The cabinet is therefore going to think about the best way to implement this measure and will listen to all the suggestions. So I will also take Mr Segers' suggestions into account in this further consideration. Mr. Chairman. The final question was whether the remaining gap due to the default of the CO-minimum price would be covered under the climate agreement. The short answer to that is yes. Holes must be covered and this will be included in the climate agreement. Mr President, those were the questions I was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u587	Mr Klaver, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u588	The Secretary of State states that it is important to give certainty to companies and therefore to include it in the Tax Plan now. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that there will be elections for the Senate in March. It is very likely that this cabinet will lose its majority. I can tell you in advance that you are dependent on the opposition. I do not know if you have listened carefully if you want a majority for that Tax Plan next year. I can easily imagine that there will then be proposals to simply increase the tax on profits again. How much security do you give companies? It's an outstretched hand from the opposition. Don't put it in the Tax Plan for 2019. It doesn't have to, because it doesn't start until 2020. Give me that space. That way you give much more certainty to companies, because you can bring it down now, but after March it just goes up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u589	I realize that there can always be other political arrangements in this Chamber or in the other Chamber. At the same time, I think it is important that we have a locational climate that is attractive. This includes providing multiannual security on the plans. We have now presented our plan. I think it's wise. Once again, even if we did not agree, we still have the technical regulation. It means that if you move a load shift into your multi-annual framework, it is also neat if you fill in the same load relief in another way. It is the right of your Chamber and everyone else to amend it. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u590	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u591	Mr. Chairman. The final debate on dividend taxation. Fortunately, the abolition of this is not on the table. It is wise for the cabinet to return to it. The way this happens is a mockery. For a year, the Prime Minister shouted, "There are irresponsible risks being taken; we can do nothing but abolish the dividend tax," and now it is not happening. Mr. Chairman. People's confidence in politics in the Netherlands has gotten a huge pinch. It has been a number of times about a motion of censure. I will say in advance that my group will not be submitting it tonight, nor will it support it, because in the end we got what we wanted, namely that the abolition of the dividend tax was cancelled. And yes, the Prime Minister is making a mess of it, but in the end, the most important thing is that this measure should go away. And yes, we fought for it for a year. We have fought for a year for this to go away and we will continue to fight against the reduction of the tax on profits. I think it will take us less than a year to get it off the table in the end. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u592	Before you do that, there is an interruption by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u593	I largely agree with Mr van GroenLinks on this dossier. It's okay to do that sometime. I just don't understand what he's doing with the motion of censure. He says he got what he wanted. You have also said, like me, that the abolition of the dividend tax is not on the table, but that the money is still going to the same companies. So I don't think we got what we wanted here at all. The measure is off the table, but yes, as Mrs Marijnissen rightly said, he went to the same people or companies in a different package. So we didn't get what we wanted after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u594	It's the same gift in another package. It's the ATM. It's the VVD gift certificate we talked about. That is all true, but in the end we are going to fight the cabinet again. I'm confident we're gonna get that off the table, too. The cabinet chooses very unwise not to give it to citizens by, for example, not allowing the VAT increase to continue, as you say, or by investing in the public sector, as we say. That is what we are going to discuss with the cabinet. This doesn't go until 2020, so we have a whole year for that. When I say that we got what we wanted, I am talking about not continuing to abolish the dividend tax. That's in the pocket. You must count your blessings here, too. Next, we are fighting this cabinet to get rid of the reduction in the tax on profits. And, Mr. Wilders, I said we'd get it done with that dividend tax, and that's what's gonna happen with this tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u595	I really disagree with Mr Klaver on that, because we have nothing in the pocket. If only we had something in the pocket, because you want to let it go to the public sector and I want to give it to the citizens, but we don't have that money. We don't have anything in the pocket. Of course, we and the rest of the opposition have done our best and will have played a role, but what did the cabinet ultimately decide to withdraw this measure? That was Unilever's call. That was not a call from you, or from me, or from Mrs Marijnissen, or from Mr Asscher. That was just a phone call from Unilever. And what do they do now? They give the money again to the Unilevers of the Netherlands. So, yes, again, you may believe what you want, but I think you're giving the cabinet too much credit, because they haven't listened to us and they won't listen to us. They're giving the money back to the wrong targets, so they just need to get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u596	If the abolition of the dividend tax does not happen now, then I am pleased, whatever the reason, because I asked for it. And it's because of Polman. It really is not because you have asked so kindly all year round, or because someone else has asked here. That's because of what Unilever did. But this is what we wanted anyway. Whatever the reason, he's going off the table. Next year we'll fight on. And the real reckoning for this cabinet does not come into the 25th motion of distrust voted away; it arrives in March, when this cabinet loses its majority and Rutte gets a punishment in the elections. Then we are ready to ensure that the reduction in the tax on profits does not happen at all. That's when it hits the pocket. You're right, we don't have anything yet. But I'm confident it's gonna be okay. The voter will speak, and he will agree with us. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, a brief one, which I will begin with, and a slightly longer one. I find it really bizarre that the Prime Minister has constantly talked about irresponsible risks. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that not wanting to abolish the dividend tax has never been an irresponsible risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u597	Mr. Chairman. I just had an interrupting debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u598	The motion, because you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u599	Sure. If you hadn't interrupted me, we'd almost be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u600	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u601	I wanted to say that I have a motion on the handling of the tax plan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reduction in the tax on profits for large companies does not start until 2020;]] [[Whereas after spring there is a better picture of the impact of the Brexit on the economy and society;]] [[Whereas the negotiations on the climate agreement have not yet been concluded and the burden-sharing is involved;]] [[Whereas, therefore, more time and space is needed in order to strike a proper balance between the social and economic bottlenecks that need to be resolved;]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to include the tariff reduction of profit tax on large companies in the letter of amendment for the 2019 Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Raan and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u602	I have a question for Mr Klaver. We have seen him in debates in which we have also fought against the abolition of dividend taxes. Now he recognizes that it is not because of the debates in Parliament, but because of something quite different that it seems to be out of the question. Does he still trust the Prime Minister? Does he still trust the Prime Minister when he says first that he takes up our arguments here in the Chamber and secondly that there are millions of jobs at stake in some measure? Does he still trust the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u603	I completely disagree with this Prime Minister on a great many issues. I bring that up here all the time. Do I think this Prime Minister is a good Prime Minister for the Netherlands? No. Do I want to beat him in the next election? Absolutely. But if you ask the question of trust, if you ask me if I am prepared to support a motion of censure at the moment, then the answer is that I am not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u604	One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u605	So the conclusion must be that you trust him. There can be no other conclusion. You trust him when he says he listens to our arguments here in the Chamber. You trust him when he says there are millions of jobs at stake. You trust the Prime Minister's word? Really? Who still trusts Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u606	I do not know whether you have paid any attention to what I have just said. I do not believe him at all when he says 'this is an irresponsible risk' or when he talks about all those jobs that saves. We have always put that forward. This has to do with different views on how to govern the Netherlands. I'm incredibly different from him about that. And we're gonna beat him in the next election. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u607	But we see here...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u608	No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u609	We see here a boy who does very big words, but doesn't dare to catch up. Then pick it up. Support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u610	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u611	Show me you got balls.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u612	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u613	Well, Mr Baudet tried that this summer. I did not really want to do that, and certainly not here in the plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u614	I don't want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u615	Here's what I'd like to say. If we have to guard against something, it is that motions of censure are not subject to huge inflation here, that they are not filed 25 times in a row and are not adopted. We're gonna beat this cabinet in March. Their majority will be gone, and then we'll change things in the Netherlands, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u616	Thank you. Everyone is free to vote for or against that, Mr. Baudet. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u617	Madam President, I can be brief. The PVV has lost all confidence in this Prime Minister. We believe that he has lost all, and indeed all, credibility, as far as he already had it and has it. It's irresponsible what he's done. He has just fooled people, too, because he has said that it would be irresponsible for Dutch society if we did not remove the dividend tax and that it would cost even a million jobs. But it turns out it's all been harassment, and lies, deceit, and bullshit. Unilever serves the Prime Minister, says 'we're not coming' and suddenly it's all no longer irresponsible, it doesn't cost any more jobs and stops the intimidation. Mr. Chairman. The second reason why we are abandoning confidence in the cabinet, particularly in the Prime Minister, is that he refuses to give the money back to the citizens for next year. And, indeed, the representative of 50PLUS is right: before 2019 there is a net burden increase for families of nearly one billion, 800 million euros to be precise, in the books. People will get a crumb of purchasing power next year. As I said in the General Political Reviews, that is on average one euro per day. And then you have to be lucky, because the Nibud also says hundreds of thousands of people are going backwards. They're going backwards, because the cabinet is raising rents and raising the health insurance. And in the energy bill next year, what is it? €150 to €200. And the VAT on groceries just goes up, so not the VAT on crazy things but the VAT on groceries. And then there's two billion to spend and everyone at home thinks, "Okay, that money goes to us, to a measure that really benefits the elderly, the young, the workers, the non-working and also the businesses," and then the Prime Minister doesn't. So, Mr. Prime Minister, because you refuse to give that money to those citizens, because you refuse to allow the VAT increase for those people to continue, because you once again baked the big business and because you have lost every credibility on this file, I shall submit the next motion of censure on behalf of my group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u618	Rather, it was an irresponsible risk that we would take if we did not abolish the dividend tax. And if the opposition said it, we took an irresponsible risk. But after Rutte himself had got away with his former employer, apparently it was no longer so irresponsible. Either it was bluff then, or it's bluff now. Tonight is the time to draw conclusions. And those conclusions are not good. Great resistance in society, a long search by the opposition for alternatives and bookcases to experts: it didn't help anything. What did help? A text from Unilever, from Paul Polman, this time. But maybe tomorrow it'll be Shell's boss or Philip's boss. Who the hell is running this country? In any case, it is not the man who stands here today, who must be the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. It is detrimental to the confidence that people have in politics that big money seems to be pulling the strings here and that big decisions in politics are taken by top men from multinationals, who, as you know, come riding in those blinded vans at the Catshuis, and not by politicians. This is about the credibility of this cabinet tonight. That is why we support the motion of censure. The Prime Minister and his cabinet have gambled and lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u619	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u620	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for the answer. There's been gambling and lost, and the Prime Minister won't admit it. That's childish, but so be it. Whatever he's gambling with, in our opinion, is the climate. It can't be. In 2050 the carbon budget is around 11 megatons. The meat sector alone accounted for 26 megatons in 2016. It is therefore important to remain within the limits of the planet and yet to meet all the necessities of life. Connoisseurs recognize Kate Raworth's doughnut economy. That's why the next doughnut motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proceeds from the non-disposal of the dividend tax are fully used for a generic reduction in the burden on business;]] [[noting that the publication of the IPCC report and the ruling in the Urgenda case have very recently revealed two really important new facts;]] [[Whereas a fully climate-resistant and strong social location climate is crucial for the future of the Netherlands, in such a way that we meet all living needs within the planet's borders;]] [[noting that, according to the United Nations, meat is the most urgent problem of our time;]] [[noting that the livestock sector is likely to swallow up most of the Dutch carbon budget;]] [[calls on the government to use the proceeds of non-disposal of the dividend tax for measures so that, within the limits of the planet, we meet all living needs, such as stimulating the crucial transition from animal to plant proteins,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u622	Thank you. Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u623	Mr. Chairman. We have seen a smug coalition this evening and this afternoon, which does not understand that there are not many more compliments and that we do not count the blessings of this package, which is even smarter than the previous package. Mr. Chairman. With this huge reduction in the tax on profits, the coalition ignores the call in society to really do what is important for our future: education, teachers, lack of teachers, safety in the streets and the people who take care of it and not increase VAT. That battle hasn't been fought yet. The coalition may agree, but laughing will ruin them. They seem to be making the mistake of thinking that, because they don't do something that was even stupider, everyone will be very excited. That is not the case. Mr. Chairman. In this debate, I have asked the Prime Minister several times to come back to how he did it himself, to take away the accusation to anyone who disagreed with him that they were taking an irresponsible risk. I am not satisfied with the Prime Minister's response, so I would like to give him the opportunity to answer my question in the second term. And that is a very serious question. If you accuse this House of taking an irresponsible risk and then you do it yourself, then there are two possibilities. Or you say it wasn't irresponsible. Or you say I'll make another decision. I don't want to hear a twist and no things around it, but an ordinary, normal, honest answer from the Prime Minister. I'll wait for that in second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u624	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u625	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. I took the word "whore vote" in my first term. I believe that this was not entirely the atmosphere of the entire debate, but as far as the SGP is concerned, it is a good thing that the decision to abolish the dividend tax is off the table. The package that is now in place is much better and regulates load relief in a smarter way. So we do feel addressed by the words "count your blessings," but that is perhaps because we have listened to The Musical Fruitmand more often in the past, so I say for those who still know that program. So yes, indeed, progress has been made. We'd like to talk about that further. As far as public debt is concerned, it was not an alternative plan that we put on the table tonight. I would just like to point out that, because sometimes it seems to be very far out of sight and every windfall is made of every windfall, a little bit of money to participate in new things could also be useful for future windfalls to see how public finances can be further improved in the long term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u626	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma. No? He doesn't use his term. Then I will go to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u627	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I taste a little melancholy after all. This is about the last debate on dividend taxation. Only the Prime Minister is laughing at this. Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank the rulers for their reply. DENK welcomes the decision not to abolish the dividend tax. Here's what I need to get off my chest. I believe that a number of colleagues, at least Mr Jetten and Mr Segers, said: you should be happy! You! You must be happy! I thought, "That's not very empathetic either." For a year as an opposition, we have thrown everything, but also everything, into battle here. We've had hearings. We talked to economists. We have almost invited everyone to explain to the people who tell us that we should be happy that what they did was not wise. And indeed, the Prime Minister mentioned an irresponsible risk. Apparently, he's taking that risk on his own right now. I don't know how that risk really works. So I will leave the verdict of the group of DENK to the answer. In particular, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to take a closer look at the risks that are being irresponsible. Is that really true or is he using those big words to justify being the only one who knows exactly how to do it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u628	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u629	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I asked the Prime Minister whether he recognised that, on balance, there would be a burden increase of 1 billion for citizens in 2019. Mr Wilders also pointed out just now what this clip-and-ready is all about. Maybe I can get a clasp-and-ready answer after all. In view of the answer so far, at least I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government intends to implement major fiscal reforms in 2019;]] [[Whereas, according to the policy developments of the CPB next year, on balance, there is a charge increase of EUR 800 million for households;]] [[Whereas purchasing power development has been disappointing for several years;]] [[Whereas increases in taxes in fiscal reform years are extremely unusual because there is no "lubrication" on balance;]] [[calls on the government to extend the compensation for the VAT increase generically by at least EUR 800 million in 2019, so that there is no longer an increase in charges for households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u630	Mr President, a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas maintaining the dividend tax is a good first step;]] [[Whereas a second step should be the use of the funds released;]] [[present a motion to encourage the cabinet to be open to good suggestions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u631	Madam President. The Prime Minister's explanation of the no longer continuing abolition of tonight's dividend tax is totally unconvincing. It's a bit like someone who says he wants to go to a party, not to see that secret mistress at all, but who, at the moment he hears that she's not coming, suddenly has no interest in going to that party and at high and low against his rightful wife claims that it was never him to do a slip. Mark Rutte has shown that his interests lie elsewhere and that he is actually engaged in completely different alliances and affairs than serving the Dutch interests. That is why we will support the motion of censure. The Prime Minister has really lost all his credibility. The 2 billion a year he wanted to give to foreign investors, which was not based on anything, was already a very bad measure. Once again, there has been a complete loss of confidence. Those two things put together, so first of all, there are wrong financial assessments, and secondly, there are lies and mistakes, which mean that we no longer have confidence in this Prime Minister and will support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u632	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u633	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u634	Mr. Chairman. There was one more question, and I am referring to the first deadline. We have discussed in detail what has been said in previous debates on the abolition of dividend taxation. Of course, with this package we no longer have the solution aimed at the specific problem. This means that there is still a serious risk. From the question of whether that is unacceptable or whatever that is, we say: listen, about its irresponsibility, we think that this package of material is in the hands of us to mitigate risks in the broadest possible way, because this package is no longer specifically aimed at this problem. But there are risks and they remain. That's in response to those questions. Mr. Chairman. Then a few motions. From the motion in part No. 73 reads the operative part:'says that not wanting to abolish the dividend tax has never been an irresponsible risk'. I would then like to advise against it, with reference to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u635	I heard the Prime Minister say there are risks not to implement that abolition. I think that's true, because we don't know exactly what its effect would have been. What I asked him to do is to take it off the table that it's an "unresponsible risk." Because it is very difficult to reconcile that the Prime Minister here would suggest something that he calls "unresponsible" to this day. He doesn't do things that are irresponsible when it's right. I asked him to take that off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u636	Quite simply: if you do not abolish the dividend tax and you do nothing else, the risk is irresponsible. We believe, with the package now in place, that there is still a risk, but not an irresponsible risk. I have argued this over and over again, but I am not convinced by Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u637	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u638	Should I take it in such a way that when you called it an "unaccountable risk," you didn't mean it was an irresponsible risk if you didn't abolish the dividend tax? No, you meant: it is an irresponsible risk if you do not abolish the dividend tax and do not take any other mitigating measures, as perhaps we will consider later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u639	That's not how the discussion went, is it? The discussion, with a whole range of left-wing plans to spend it all on the table here, wasn't it about consumer spending? Those are the facts. But we discussed that extensively in the first term, so it's a bit of a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u640	Yeah, this is the second term. We're not going to repeat the discussion, Mr. Asscher. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u641	The Prime Minister says here: "These are the facts." Then he has to stick to the facts. The facts are not that he used the word "unaccountable" in the opposition package. The facts are not that he used that word in a counter-budget. The facts aren't that he was talking about "a risk." He said if you don't do this and if you don't follow me, you're taking an irresponsible risk. And now he's doing it himself. For this reason, for the last time, I would like to ask him to remove the word 'unresponsible' about this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u642	It is exactly as Mr Asscher says: then you are taking an irresponsible risk. Because Mr Asscher's alternative to other left-wing parties here was to put together a budget to spend the money that was released on consumer spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u643	Mr. Baudet, this is the second term, so we're not going to do the discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u644	But this is important!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u645	Everything we discuss here is important. You will have the opportunity to ask a question, but not to have the debate again. We just had that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u646	I would like to remind the Prime Minister that there are not only left-wing parties, i.e. clumsy and sinister parties, in this Parliament, but also right-wing parties, sensible parties, including FvD, who have repeatedly proposed that instead of abolishing the dividend tax, VPB rates should be relaxed, the box 2 tariff reduced and business should be allowed to make room. They are measures in the direction you are now taking. So your argument towards Mr Asscher may perhaps be that you say: I would not have liked to do any left-wing alternatives to abolishing the dividend tax. But there have indeed been other measures on the table, which are much more similar to the alternatives you are now considering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u647	Then I am counting on Mr Baudet's support for the package that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u648	No, because you're still not going far enough. There are still many other possibilities that would be much better. But it is not the case that the only alternative to abolishing the dividend tax was a left-wing plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u649	You made that clear, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u650	Has Mr Baudet submitted a counter-budget to the General Reviews?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u651	We have submitted counter-motions at a very large number of times, which provided an alternative use of those 2 billion of dividend tax abolition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u652	Well, I'm counting on support, but in this business, you'll never get 100% what you want. Neither do I; that turns out to be today. I therefore hope that Mr Baudet will come my way and put his two seats behind this package. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 74, in which the government is asked not to include the reduction in the tax rate for large companies in the letter of amendment to the 2019 Tax Plan, we advise against. The necessary tax measures must now be clarified. This is also necessary for the climate of establishment. The motion in part No. Seventy-five, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u653	That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u654	Oh, sorry. I thought I could find something. Conjecture: Maybe I should keep my mouth shut about that. But if I could have said anything about it, I would have advised her not to. Then the Van Raan motion to part No. 76. I think there is now a balanced package for our location and investment environment. For that reason, I advise against this motion. The Van Rooijen motion in part No. 77 I advise against referring to the debate we have had on this subject. What in the Van Rooijen motion in part No. 78 states, always applies. I dissuade her, because she's unnecessary. Of course, we await Mr Van Rooijen's suggestions in the debate on the letter of amendment to the Tax Plan. But yes, this is what we defend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u655	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-18.u656	It is customary to vote directly, or at least the same day or evening, on a motion of censure. One group has indicated the need for a twenty-minute suspension. There is also a legislative consultation on Home Affairs and it is important that the other colleagues also have the opportunity to come to the Chamber.
