ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Medical Care. Mrs Ellemeet asks a question about the message that sometimes less than half of the care is reimbursed. I call Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Many people in the Netherlands struggle with high care costs. They now calculate as precisely as possible what the care will cost them, so that, if necessary, they can put aside enough money to pay the bill. There is therefore a great responsibility on the shoulders of health insurers to indicate in their policies as precisely as possible how high the reimbursement rate is for non-contracted care and, of course, to comply with it. GroenLinks is shocked by the report that health insurers pay less care than agreed in the policy. People who receive care from a non-contracted healthcare provider face unexpectedly high own contributions, for example in mental health care. In practice, fees appear to have nothing to do with the average rate and are not market-based. People get tricked like that and get into trouble. GroenLinks wants to address this as soon as possible. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that people should not be confronted with unexpectedly high healthcare costs due to misleading healthcare policies? The Healthcare Authority has launched a wide-ranging investigation into these abuses. When are the results expected? Why hasn't the Healthcare Authority intervened recently? Which areas of care are included in the research? Is sufficient priority given to the ggz? Can the Minister guarantee us that free choice of doctors will not be put under pressure? How is he going to make sure that people can continue to choose the care that suits them? How are insured persons compensated for the compensation they have missed in the past period? What interim solution is the Minister looking for until the investigation of the Healthcare Authority is completed? Finally, how will the Minister address health insurers on their responsibility? Is he going to make firm agreements on this in the main line agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say this to Mrs Ellemeet. I read the message in yesterday's paper. I also lit my light at the NZa. It wasn't a new message to them. The NZa has already received this signal from the Zorghuis Foundation and started its research on this basis. Even before the summer, she wants to come up with a rash. I think that should be said first. I am not ready for the definition of misleading policies. We are talking about natural policies here. In doing so, approximately 75% of the account will be reimbursed in accordance with the obstacle criterion. In general, the health insurance provider does not send an additional account to the consumer. This 75% is a practical experience based on case law. In general, that will be enough. In some cases it may be too high and in others perhaps too low. I therefore need more facts and figures to follow Mrs Ellemeet's reasoning that there are misleading policies. For the moment, I am far from saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister says it's not news to the Healthcare Authority. I am even more concerned about this because until now there has been no active intervention or intervention by the Healthcare Authority. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he looks at the active role that the Healthcare Authority should play in the event of abuses or unexpectedly high personal contributions to people based on their natural policy. How does the Minister see this role of the Healthcare Authority? Does he want this in consultation with the Healthcare Authority? The research of Zorghuis shows that there is higher own contributions and that people are unexpectedly confronted with high care costs. These are people who are already struggling with the cost of care and who are sometimes awake from it, and then that bill appears to be even higher for themselves. What does the Minister intend to do about it in the meantime? We can wait until the summer for the Healthcare Authority's report, but this problem is now affecting people. What responsibility does the Minister see for himself? The research carried out by Zorghuis also shows that, in this sense, there is deception in the healthcare policy because there is often talk of compensation up to 100% of the average rate. Practice shows that, in most cases, the lowest rate that insurers agree to with healthcare providers is calculated, i.e. not with the average rate. Therefore, there is no market-based tariff. How does the Minister intend to stop this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	Here we come a little bit on the subject of research: what is the average rate? Should this be taken from a basic policy, or should a higher rate than that of a basic quality policy be calculated? How can that be combined? Do all insurance companies do that the same way? My first impression is that this is not the case and that different insurers use different calculation methods. I think we should have the facts on the table before we can have a further debate on this. Before the summer, the NZa can do that research. This does not happen on the initiative of me; it is done on the initiative of the Health Care House. Once again, that signal did not come through the newspaper yesterday; it came in January. I think it is very thoughtful and also clear, clear and good of the NZa that it is taking action on this point. First, we need to get the facts straight and then on, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	We already have a number of facts thanks to the research that Zorghuis has done. I would very much like the Minister to start working on these facts now so that we can solve the problems for all those people who can't afford their care right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	Laws without effect are worthless. This also applies to agreements, because the conclusion is that this has apparently not been monitored in the past. How does the Minister intend to ensure that this can no longer happen in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	The current method is as follows. We have set an obstacle criterion in the law and the definition of this obstacle criterion has been given an increasingly concrete interpretation by case law in recent years. So we arrive at that percentage of 75 of the average contracted rate. I actually think that is a good way of doing things. There's nothing weird about that. The question is, of course, whether the health insurance company properly implements the policy arrangements he makes year after year. We have the NZa to see to that. So I think that is actually a well-functioning system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Minister does react very casually to the fact that people simply no longer get the care they need. Does he not think that the health insurance company can easily take advantage of the enormous power it has acquired within the current healthcare system? It seems to me that this is the case. The Minister seems to me to be getting his shoulders up a little bit, but of course they are charging rates that the average health care provider can't work for at all. Does he not agree with the SP that people who want to go to the doctor of their choice should also be able to receive health care and not face huge bills?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	We are talking here about an obstacle standard that is mentioned in a natural policy. People may want to have even more clarity about their health care expenses. I would say that this is also well organised in this kind of policy, but consumers can also opt for another insurance policy, namely the so-called restitution policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Minister says: I'm not actually doing anything until I have control of the Dutch Healthcare Authority's investigation. He doesn't have that before the summer anyway. Meanwhile, the Minister is going to have a number of very difficult debates with the health insurers about, for example, the main agreements. Should I now assume that the problem that is being investigated will actually be frozen from the Minister's side until then and will not be mentioned at all, even if he is sitting at the table personally with the health insurers? That can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	I would like to remind you that we have already made a commitment to this Chamber. In this case, we are Mr De Jonge and I shall be sending a letter to your Chamber at the end of March, beginning of April, on the investigation into uncontracted care, specifically in the neighbourhood care. That's one point. The other point is that we will be coming to the Chamber this spring with proposals to promote contracting. Those are two concrete actions which stand out for the coming period, so it has not been said that they are on their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mrs Dijksma, your second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	However, the Minister has not yet answered the question as to what he will do with the information that came out at least yesterday, although via the newspaper, where it seems that insured people do not always get what they are entitled to. You're just talking about these kinds of topics...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	... make arrangements with the health insurance companies in the coming months. Does this mean seriously that you just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	That's the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	Does this seriously mean that the Minister will only be able to take a follow-up step at the time when the NZa comes out with her report? That would be mustard after the meal for the major negotiations he is currently conducting with the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	You're only rubbing it in me a little bit. Those main line chords are very firm. That's gonna take a lot of energy. I think good care for everyone in this country is very important. Whether or not there are misleading policies or not, these are not my words, but Mrs Ellemeet's. I really want to know exactly what's going on before I go there using a newspaper article... If we had already had a whole series of newspaper articles or other signals about this, I might have had a different view on this, but I do not have a whole list or a book in the closet with previous signals about abuses. So I want to take this seriously and say that this did not start with yesterday's newspaper article, but with the signal that Zorghuis gave to the NZa at the beginning of this year. That first conversation between Zorghuis and NZa also took place in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u21	I was a little shocked when the Minister said: I think the system works well, so I don't have to do so much. If there hadn't been that independent investigation from Zorghuis and that signal, wouldn't the Minister be ignoring what's going on here? Only now the NZa is going to do something. So the system isn't working properly after all? Can the Minister reflect on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u22	I actually think that the inclusion of such an obstacle criterion in Dutch legislation has a good effect. Where that wrings, the hallway to the judge is open. This is also being used. I think that's a good way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u23	My colleague just asked questions. The Minister indicated that he would like to await the investigation first. But Mrs Ellemeet also asked about mental health care. Is it included in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u24	I should check it out. I failed to answer that question; that is correct. In the speed of the many questions within one minute, I have not answered that question. But I will ask the Dutch Healthcare Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you.
