ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66 for his question to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport about children with sick parents, young carers. It's also the Week of the Mantelzorg, I understand. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We often see the Secretary of State of the United States of America these days. Last Thursday we had a debate on the lack of appropriate youth aid. Very often, in this Chamber, we have the discussion of whether we have too much or too little youth aid, whether youth aid is not timely or inappropriate. Now the Children's Ombudswoman, the Children's Ombudsman, points to the problem of children who do not receive youth aid at all, children who are completely out of the picture of youth care. Those children are out of the picture because not themselves but their parents are sick, addicted or intellectually limited. But that's not a new problem. I looked it up. In recent years it has been very, very often about young carers. A solution still doesn't seem to be in sight. This group of children falls between shore and ship. Do the children with sick parents fall under the Youth Act? Do they fall under the Wmo? Are they among the health insurers whose parents are reimbursed for their care? We also have different groups. That makes it difficult, as the Children's Ombudsman's report teaches us. We have KOPP children, Children of Parents with Psychiatric Problems. We have KVO children, Children of Addicted Parents. We have KVBO children, Children of Intelligible Limited Parents. And so we have young carers, children who care for a sick or disabled parent. This all sounds very technical, but behind every child is a story. A child wants to be helped: where can I ask with my help, who can I contact, someone sees me and do you hear me? I have the following questions for the Minister. How is the Minister finally going to solve this problem in its entirety? Does the Minister think that the Empire has a responsibility here, or does he want to encourage municipalities? Should these children be approached via the district team and are all sick parents in the picture with the district team? Finally. The Minister makes many action plans, such as an action plan for elderly care and an action plan for youth care. Does the Minister also see an opportunity to make an action plan for children of sick parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It is good to reflect on the important report of the Kinderombudsman this afternoon. We are not talking about young carers for the first time, but it is true that children who have a long-term sick parent need more support. It is true that these children themselves often do not come into this picture because they do not themselves express a very strong concern or cause problems themselves. They are children who, at a much too young age, have far too much adult care and tasks and are far too expected of them. In some cases they are not so much the child who is being cared for as they are mostly taking care of their parents themselves. This means that we have a number of steps to take both in terms of the alert and in terms of support and assistance. The first step is that these children are often best represented through the treating professional of the parents, especially in the case of children of parents who have a psychiatric disorder and who are being treated. Then it is really important that the child check as it has been agreed is actually carried out. This is one of the measures in the Youth Care Programme. We also invest heavily in this to ensure that the child check is actually carried out. In addition, it is important that children who come into the picture actually receive the support they need. One of the measures in the Care for Youth programme is, for example, to intensify mentoring. That means that you always have someone next to a younger person to think with him and help him. With regard to the help that is needed, you have already mentioned an impressive number of abbreviations, but it is indeed about the help needed for children of parents with psychiatric problems, of parents with disabilities or of parents who have addiction. This aid is part of the total package of youth assistance provided by the municipality. So the answer to the question of which law is this, is that it is essentially the Youth Act. In addition, there is the ggz, the Health Insurance Act, where parents are treated and some of them are also funded by system therapy that can help in this, but mainly the Youth Act. What are we gonna do with it? From the Care for the Youth programme and from the programme Approach domestic violence and child abuse, especially from those two programmes, our efforts are being made. Then who's next? You ask: is that a neighborhood team and are all sick parents in the picture with a district team? No, not all of them. Sometimes it will be. Very often it also starts in school. School social work, for example, plays a very important role in this, and then organises the help that is needed. So you can't say that the neighborhood team is always on. In any case, the caretaker of the parents is called upon to initiate such help as is necessary for children.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am also very pleased with the suggestion that the JIM, the Mentor you brought in, should play a role here. It is also mentioned in the Youth Care Action Programme. I wonder how we're going to shape that, because those kids must be in the picture before they can get a mentor. So I wonder if that's going through the district teams, because the Youth Act is also the most appropriate law here. In addition, I have also briefly explored the Action Programme on Care for Youth. It is a pity, however, that the terms 'children of sick parents' and 'young carers' are not very well mentioned in the Action Programme. I understand that there are different groups and that it is difficult to take one approach. But the evaluation of the Youth Act does not really address this problem either. So isn't it an idea to take a broader look, to do a quick study of which different groups are there and how exactly we help them? Such an action programme can therefore be drawn up. I would also like to point out the duty of youth aid. The Minister writes in the Youth Care Action Programme that within each region it is clear what to expect from basic youth assistance. Can this help be included? Finally, the Minister mentioned the child check. I am curious to see to what extent the reporting code can play a role in this. I am also thinking of agencies such as the Child Phone and the trust work. How can the Minister better facilitate these bodies so that these children come into the picture sooner and better?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	I understand Mr Raemakers' quest. He wonders what policy commitment, in which programmes, we can better support this group of children than we have done so far. What actions are actually being taken? I understand that. I just sketched some of them. In the area of alerts, for example, such as improving compliance with the child check. That is a very important phenomenon. As regards the support provided and the subsequent assistance, numerous measures are being taken on a number of programmes. But I could, for example, do this. On 21 June, I believe, we have an AO on the Youth Care Action Programme. I will outline our commitment to the various programmes in relation to the young carers. Let us then continue with each other the discussion as to whether that is sufficient, or perhaps even more effort is needed in order to actually answer the questions raised by the Children's Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	And an AO is a committee debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I believe that the AO of 21 June is mainly about child abuse and family situations in the broad sense, and that we should once again take part in the debate on the Youth Action Programme and on the evaluation of the Youth Act. But I would suggest that we, as a Chamber, receive another letter for this plenary debate, because I think that is the best way to take this issue with us. Furthermore, I am very pleased that this issue will receive more attention in this Week of the Young Carers, so that we as politicians also see these children better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	For many years I have been angry in this house about the fact that children from 5 years of age are required to be cared for. All these years it was always D66 who did not support the proposal to extend that age of 5 to 15 years. Children who are dealing with a parent who is ill or a parent who is disabled are already doing so many extra hand and tension services: they pick up the mail, they indicate something, you name it. The mere fact that a child aged 5 years or older is living in the house provides a discount on the indication for both care and help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to raise that age of 5 to 15 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	I honestly do not understand exactly what Mrs Agema means. You don't choose to be a caretaker. When you're a kid, you don't choose to be a caretaker one day. It is about parents who have a complicated picture of illness, in which children are forced to jump in, often in such a way that the outside world does not realize that children take on much too adult responsibilities or tasks at all. The argument of the Children's Ombudsman and, in my opinion, Raemakers is about how we can make sure that we know that much sooner and much better, so that we can support those children.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have to interrupt you. You began by saying that you did not understand Mrs Agema's question. Maybe it's a good thing that Mrs. Agema briefly explains it, otherwise you'll be talking past each other. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	At the moment we have a directive on indication advice for helping the household. It states that the presence of children from 5 years of age in the household is a cause for shortening hours of care, for example, of neighbourhood care and care services, and for shortening hours of domestic help. This means that there is a need for compulsory family care. My question to the Minister is whether he can replace that age of 5 with the age of 15, because children in that intermediate period already do a lot more for their parents when they are dealing with illness or disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	Obviously. A specific question and a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u17	I'll just have to do it this way. I'm gonna take a look at it. I thought this was about whether you can expect kids in a family to help me clean up the dishwasher. The answer is, of course, yes. But that is not the issue here. The issue here concerns seriously ill parents, parents with severe psychiatric disabilities, and the question of whether we also have an eye for the children. The Kinderombudsman's answer is: insufficient. I agree with her on this and I'd like to get on with it. Let me take your specific question with you to get back to you exactly. You're standing in front of you with a whole pile of paper I don't know. So I'm gonna have to take a look at that just to make sense of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u18	Good. No, Mrs. Agema. I would ask the Minister to comment on this in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u19	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u20	That's a commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u22	Then that's what happened. No, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u23	I can still ask my second question, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u24	Sorry. I thought the PVV had already been for the second time. You may ask a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In itself, I welcome this commitment from the Minister. It puts us in the right direction a little faster than Van Rijn, who promised in his very last debate on this matter that he had asked the health offices to clarify what can and can't be done. So I ask the Minister to make this clear, not just the directive and the question of how we can influence it nationally. My proposal is to raise the age of 5 to 15 years so that children are not burdened with compulsory care if they are already dealing with a parent with disabilities or illness. If he can tell us clearly what is and what is not allowed, then I know how many years we have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u26	I think you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u27	I shall return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u28	I will now go to Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr. Chairman. One of the worst things that I think you can say as a politician/politician is: we are not about that. I think the same applies to the Minister in this case. The Minister says: I acknowledge that we have arranged it fairly well on paper when it comes to the child check, and I also see that it is a problem and that we have to get to work on it. Then there will be a whole bunch of policy proposals and action programmes, etc. My specific question is when and when we can check the Minister that this has actually been improved, otherwise it will be empty words and even more paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u30	You did not hear me say, I say through the President: I am not about that. You will never hear me say that either, because I know that you always talk to me about all things, and I also like to fill that in that way. Even if you don't go about it in a formal sense, you'll still be able to see what you can do to make sure you get on with it. That's how I'm in there. I have promised Mr Raemakers that I would like to see in what programmes we are taking in the coming period the steps necessary to get a better picture of this issue not only of young carers, but also of helping young carers to get started. I'd like to get back to that. I have mentioned a number of examples. I have certainly not been exhaustive in this, because fortunately much more is happening not only to improve the signaling, but also to help and support. So I'd like to come and talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u32	This is, of course, a very serious problem: children who are young, sometimes very young, and have to take some of the care for their sick parents. What I run into, and we discussed this last week with Secretary of State Blokhuis, is, of course, that in some respects professional care is not in order either. If you look at mental health care, you can see that the ggz at home is just not in order. The Cabinet recognizes that, too. If you look at the district care, you can see that the workload is so enormous that you can hardly expect more from professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u33	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u34	The question is who is ultimately responsible for tackling this problem. Does the Cabinet also recognise that if the professional care is inadequate, the problem of these children is only getting worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u35	Then we are going to make it too big and too difficult to solve. Can I make it smaller? Suppose a mother with a firm borderline disorder is being treated. But the psychiatrist doesn't ask if she's gonna have any babies waiting for her and whether she's gonna be able to do it while he sees that she's not gonna be a good mom, like she's in his treatment room right now. That has nothing to do with any system or form of financing. That's just a question of asking the right question and broadening the scope. That's what needs to be done. That's also what was agreed in the child check. The question is whether that child check is done everywhere. The answer is no. So we did not leave it to others to take the measure to check whether that child check is being carried out everywhere. This is one of the measures in our programme of domestic violence and child abuse which we are discussing in general consultation on 21 June. In my opinion, this is how concrete we need to get to work on it. Of course, there's always a shortage of money. That happens everywhere, but that's never an excuse not to do the good things you can just do when you're treating someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am very curious about the Minister's answers to Mrs Agema's questions. Those answers will come in writing. Then the child check. It is clear that it is being done far too little. I ask the Minister, before he pulls off all those boats, to draw further attention to that. My big concerns really go out to the children of parents who are not being treated. Is there any way to get more attention to that before we get back into all kinds of research circles?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u38	The answer is yes, only the point is right: you don't know what you don't know. That is one of the reasons why very actively the signaling brings to the attention of all professionals who work with children and families. The signaling is an important step in the Meldcode domestic violence and child abuse. In every class, attention must be paid to it. Children often know a lot about themselves and each other. Kids about who it is often don't say on their retina that what they're going through at home isn't normal at all. That conversation must be held in every classroom, and that must be more than just a conversation. In short, that is a core of our approach to domestic violence and child abuse. It is incredibly important to signal those things that only come to you through very subtle signals. Parents who are being treated can at least be reported. Especially in the case of young carers, parents are often treated. Let us take the necessary steps there, but let us also focus on the alerting of domestic violence and child abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mr President. The Children's Ombudsman has given an opinion in a report. Fortunately, this report is not a hundred pages thick but only eight pages with very clear recommendations. These recommendations are addressed to municipalities and different bodies. How does the Minister see his role in this? Is he willing to look together with the Children's Ombudsman to see how we can ensure that the advice from this report and other reports are put in the right place and that the right people are working on it as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u41	I'd like to go into that in the letter I promised. They are recommendations to professionals, to municipalities and to many parties. I think you should always look at the goal you want to achieve. Saying your side of the boat is leaking never helps. That is not helpful for the solution of any problem. So what you have to do is direct the approach in such a way that all parties do what can be expected of them. This is how the approach is based on domestic violence and child abuse. This is also the case with the Youth Care Action Programme. We must do justice to the responsibilities of the various parties, but we do want to direct that from our ministry. That is how I intend to set up this approach and that is how I will work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you.
