ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Medical Care. Welcome to the Members of Parliament and, of course, welcome to the people in the public gallery and to the people who follow this debate in a different way. I suggest that we start with the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u2	I am happy to give the floor first to Mr Van Gerven. Mr Van Gerven speaks on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. An implant is an object placed in your body. If you have to rely on something, then it's that these implants are safe and reliable. And you should be able to trust that, if anything is wrong with it, it will be detected as soon as possible and all persons with that implant will be detected as soon as possible, the errors will be repaired and health damage will be prevented as much as possible. We don't want any more improper breast implants and turnips. Nobody can disagree with that, right? A uniform coding with a unique identification code of all implants in a complete and clear register is indispensable. It is also essential to know who has received which and which type of implant. For this purpose, a fully reliable registration is of great importance. That is why we are also in favour of the implant register. It may contribute to the traceability of the implant. Furthermore, it is important that the person who received the implant is fully aware of the situation. Good registration contributes to patient safety, whether cardiological, orthopaedic or gynecological implants or breast implants. We also had another goal when it comes to implants: to eliminate financial conflicts of interest between medical specialists or healthcare institutions. We do not want a particular implant to be chosen because it makes a medical specialist financially better, while it may not be the best option for the patient or even dangerous. It must be the implant that's best for the patient. The only thing that should be decided for medical specialists in that choice for hip A or hip B is which implant is best for a particular person. Can the Minister guarantee that the financial conflict of interest between medical specialists, healthcare institutions and the implant industry is now over? I know that rules have been laid down for this, but can the Minister say again what the current state of affairs is on that point? Then there's the PVV amendment. Last year, or two years ago, as SP, we supported Mrs Agema's and Mrs Gerbrands' amendments. The Minister now states that it is in breach of European law and too little delineated. In failing to follow up or not to implement that amendment, the Minister is disregarding a mandate from the Chamber. The Minister says: yes, I am going to do it in a different way and I guarantee that the effect will be exactly the same as the amendment adopted. Can the Minister please explain again whether there are differences between what the amendment intended and what the Minister is proposing, particularly in the area of patient safety? Is it just as secure with the route the Minister now wants to take? According to the Minister, the amendment is contrary to European law because it hinders approved medical devices. I would like to see that explained, because in the end it all has to be recorded in this way. So I do not understand why this would be contrary to European law. The legislative proposal in question concerns the implementation of the European Regulation on medical devices and in vitro diagnostics. It's still in preparation, I understand. I read that it includes provisions on traceability and unique identification codes. That's what the SP wants. Another element of dissuading it was that it was not sufficiently defined. It would also cover staples, sutures, screws, plates and so on. Will they then be excluded from the European regulation? I'd like an explanation. Isn't it true that the system will not enter into force until 26 May 2021 for all implantable devices? That's pretty far away. Of course, this should have been done more quickly in the interests of patient safety, but how is safety guaranteed in the intervening years? Is that only the agreement document between the industrial parties? Until 26 May 2021, we will have to deal with this agreement document. Isn't that too non-committal, the industry's self-regulation? Moreover, the agreements are not enforceable by the inspection. So it is an agreement document without guarantee, while the Minister says he has every confidence in it. If certain manufacturers do not or do not comply with the agreements in good time, according to the Minister, the Dutch healthcare providers can try to enforce that these manufacturers also comply with the agreements. Does the Minister really believe that? Does he believe that the Dutch healthcare providers can actually make such an impression with their threats during the care purchase? They're international manufacturers, so there's a huge market. Would those manufacturers be impressed? We have doubts about this, all the more so when we look at the argument put forward by the Minister in the amendment tabled by Mrs Agema and Mrs Gerbrands. If the Netherlands wanted to introduce a ban on applying to uncoded implants, the Minister considered that manufacturers could decide not to offer these implants on the relatively small Dutch market. Isn't that what he's talking about? So I wonder how valid the argument is. Isn't it a bit of an opportunity argument? Then there is the debate on the feasibility of the starting date. The implant register will be introduced on 1 July. In fact, all parties already admit that 1 July is not a realistic date. The Nederlandse Vereniging van Ziekenhuizen, NVZ, even states that virtually no hospital is able to deliver data on 1 July without double administrative burden. What does the Minister think of this observation? What is his response to the request to postpone the introduction of the legal obligation and thus the request to link this trajectory to programs such as Registration at the source and the Versnellprogram information exchange patient and professional? It is, of course, a question of which option, according to the Minister, is the most patient-safe and the most careful. What are the consequences if these projects do not connect, both for the healthcare provider and for the patient? What about next to hospitals with the other relevant parties that are required to provide information? What part of the parties concerned is going to meet the deadline of 1 July? The Minister himself states that it is unrealistic. Otherwise, he would not have proposed a transitional period of one year. The question is, of course, whether that year will be enough. The Minister is confident that the parties are sufficiently motivated, but what evidence is there for that motivation? What part of the organizations is that gonna make it? The Federation of Medical Specialists has serious doubts about the transition period of one year. There is also a lot of work to be done for the software. The question is whether double administrations, just to comply with the law, are desirable. Actually, you don't. This question again arises because the Federation of Medical Specialists indicates that the transmission of data from the electronic patient file to the implant registers of the scientific associations is not regulated and that no agreement has been reached with institutions on the continued existence of these registrations. Can the Minister guarantee these registrations of the scientific associations? And will the Minister ensure that the implants introduced into the existing implant registers of the scientific associations are transmitted from these registers to the National Implant Register, in order to avoid as many double registrations as possible? What has now been created through the scientific associations can count on support. I understand that these associations have 99% coverage. We are going to hear that from the Minister, he says: I did not think so, but we would like to hear it from him. In any case, the SP Group does not want the work of the scientific associations to be frustrated by the introduction of the implant register. That work has to go on. My request is whether the Minister wishes to give the firm guarantee that the institutions that should facilitate this will ensure that this data is simply passed on to the scientific associations. The Health and Youth Inspectorate does not maintain in the transition year, while the law already applies. Of course, that's a strange construction. How does the Minister see that in practice? The SP Group is also concerned about the situation at private clinics. They are an additional risk factor. Is the inspection not going to be checked and we are just waiting and waiting for it to happen, at least in this way we understand whether something is happening somewhere? Finally, the general measure of governance. The implants to which the register is to apply are listed in consultation with the Federation of Medical Specialists and the inspection. The list will be anchored in a general measure of governance in order to implement the legislative proposal. Can the Minister tell us exactly what will happen if there are health damage or other problems with implants that are not included in the general measure of governance? I imagine the list can be modified, but what happens if someone with an implant gets into trouble when the implant is not on the list? How do we track other people with the same implant, especially now that the Dutch Association of Hospitals and the medical specialists say that maintaining two registers is far too time-consuming? In the note following the report, the Minister states that the intention is to inform the Chamber in spring of the content of the general measure of governance. We're already in the middle of May. The register will start on 1 July next, so that's very close. However, we have not yet seen the general measure of governance. My question to the Minister is whether that is true. If so, when can we expect the general measure of governance? I assume that the Minister acknowledges that the general measure of governance should have been available in today's legal proceedings so that we could have involved the measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs De Vries. She speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Patient safety is the heart of the quality of care. That is why it is crucial for the VVD. The VVD has therefore previously agreed to the proposal to create an implant register, in anticipation of the European obligation from 2020. Too often there were reports of leaking breast implants or inadequate pelvic floor mats, with all the harmful consequences for the patient. As a patient, you can expect implants to be safe and to be detected quickly if something is wrong, so that action can be taken quickly. In fact, this legislative proposal is merely a reversal of an amendment previously adopted, which was already dissuaded from conflicting with European law and possible lack of feasibility. The VVD was against that amendment for that reason. The VVD therefore supports the legislative amendment to reverse this amendment, even since there is now a new framework for agreements agreed with the most concerned parties. However, despite this consultation, there is still strong criticism from parties such as the Dutch Association of Hospitals, the Federation of Medical Specialists and the Dutch Federation of University Medical Centres. They call for the introduction of the law to be postponed. It is even said that patient safety would be at stake. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister to the letter from these parties addressed to the Minister, but which was also sent to the House of Representatives. How is it that the parties involved in the agreement document still have such serious criticism? What consultations has been held between the parties concerned and the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America? What was picked up and executed from that? In terms of patient safety, it is crucial that patients are soon able and easily traceable, even when the patient is being treated in another hospital. Can the Minister guarantee that this is the case? What are the consequences of the SP on the existing quality registers? What impact will it have on patient safety if they may no longer be available or if double registers may need to be kept? Furthermore, regulation pressure is a critical point. Reducing the control pressure in the care is an important point for the VVD. That is why scrapings are included in the coalition agreement. The proposals for the implant register increase the administrative burden. Is it true that this will also be the case in the future with the EU regulation and that health care institutions will only have to deal with this earlier? Or does it also create additional administrative burdens? Is it true that the agreement document does not require anything other than the EU regulation that will enter into force shortly? However, these administrative burdens are still subject to constant criticism. There is talk of double administrative burdens and manual imports. The latter would, of course, be completely prehistoric. Can the Minister respond to that? What are the possibilities, according to the Minister, for reducing these administrative burdens? What arrangements have been made in the information board to ensure that timely and automatic data exchange is possible from the electronic patient files and the registry? Is it true that the VWS Department would take the lead in making agreements with the EPD and software providers? What is the state of play? Is this even possible and feasible before 1 July 2019? How are implants that cannot be directly scanned in the electronic patient file? NVZ, FMS and FNU argue for a postponement of the introduction of the law. The Minister says that there is an ingrowth period of one year, until 1 July 2019. Can the Minister guarantee that all parties will be able to comply with the legal obligation as of 1 July 2019, without any administrative burden or manual import? The Minister states that, in the period up to 1 July 2019, the inspection will exercise the possibility of enforcement and will not impose any measures. What does that mean with restraint in this case? Is the Minister prepared to go round the table again with NVZ, FMS and FNU and in consultation on in particular the guarantee of patient safety, the exchange of data and the reduction of administrative burdens, and to inform the House of Representatives before 1 July 2018 when the law enters into force? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than a year ago, we spoke here about the legislative proposal relating to the creation of the implant register. There was and is a broad consensus on the need to establish an implant register. As my colleague Mr De Vries pointed out, we have to solve problems such as the PIP affair, which revealed that the more than 24,000 breast implants that are implanted every year are not registered as quickly as possible. This requires the law that was dealt with last year, but it must also be enforceable. First of all, the reason for this novelle itself. The amendment tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Gerbrands, which was adopted last year, has our sympathy with the substance. The CDA also believes that the introduction of a unified identification code has been delayed for far too long. However, last year we also understood the government's reasoning that this amendment is not now feasible, because it is contrary to European law. Meanwhile, the state's attorney has confirmed this. The CDA therefore supports this novelle to remove this amendment from the legislative proposal. Instead, the Minister has adopted an agreement document with the organisations concerned. Field parties are encouraged to prepare themselves as soon as possible and in anticipation of the EU obligation for the said Regulation. My question to the Minister is: why is he confident that this form of self-regulation will work, and why didn't these agreements have to do with the field parties before? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my second point: the feasibility of the implant register. As mentioned earlier, a number of organisations, including the Dutch Association of Hospitals, the NFU and the Federation of Medical Specialists have drawn attention to potentially unintended negative effects of the bill. In his letter of 20 April, the Minister acknowledges that sustainable implementation for the field is not easy. Therefore, it has been agreed that the field will be allowed another year as a growth period from the date of 1 July 2018. Can the Minister explain why, unlike the medical specialists, he is convinced that this is enough? Can he explain why he thinks the planning of the implementation of the Implant Register does not unnecessarily interfere with the planning of essential programs such as Registration at source and the VIPP programme? What does the Minister think about the fact that the software providers of the SPD indicate that they will only be able to build in the required health information building blocks in the sofware releases at the earliest end of 2018, while the Implant Register has been known for a long time? What about the talks between the Ministry and the EPD suppliers to reach the desired agreements? Can the Minister explain why the use of the web portal provided by the CIB, which small institutions can use, is discouraged? Is the Minister convinced that this portal is no longer necessary and that the administration will become simpler if the source is properly registered and there is an automatic link? If so, by when does the Minister consider that the institutions are sufficiently capable of registering at source with an automatic link? The Minister also writes that he understands the concerns about the continued existence of the quality registers. However, he does not want to address these concerns in the context of the National Implant Register, but wants to conduct this discussion in a broader discussion about the landscape of quality registrations, the increasing administrative burden and the outcome transparency. We can understand that, but can the Minister indicate how he not only organises this process by means of a process, but will also take the lead in it? Mr. Chairman. For the safety of patients it is very important that a well-functioning implant register is introduced. It has taken far too long as far as the CDA is concerned. I hope, therefore, that this Minister will be able to come up with feasible and workable agreements with all the parties in the field in the short term. Is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber of the progress of implementation every six months? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet, and she is speaking on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already heard all my colleagues say that the introduction of this implant register is extremely important, and I can only agree with that. This afternoon, we are talking mainly about the novelle in order to get the amendment out of the legislative proposal. My group had supported the amendment, because it is indeed extremely important to monitor this uniformity. So we also regret that it has been reversed. At the same time, we understand that this is necessary at the moment, and that we can actually implement the amendment with the European regulation in 2020, especially since the Minister states that he supports the aim of the amendment and would like to work in the spirit of the amendment already. However, we still have a number of questions on how to ensure the scope of the amendment in the period before the European regulation will apply in the Netherlands. Before I come to those questions, I also have a trial question. I am curious to see what is currently the status of the legislative preparation of the EU Regulation on medical devices. Mr. Chairman. The Minister had an agreement document drawn up with the parties concerned to replace the amendment. To what extent does this document differ from the substance of the amendment, except that, of course, no fines can be imposed and there is no legal basis? Can he clarify that a little bit? The absence of the possibility to issue fines if manufacturers do not comply with the agreement document makes it, of course, a weaker document. After all, it is possible not to participate. Or are there sanctions if a party fails to comply with the agreements, I ask the Minister. He has indicated that healthcare providers can enforce by purchasing that manufacturers comply with the agreement document. Has this happened before? Are there already manufacturers who do not comply with the agreements? Do we have any information on this? And are these manufacturers still buying in? Mr. Chairman. As regards the coverage of the participating parties in this agreement document, it is stated that it is possible that participants will be missing if the list of implants has been extended. Have the calls to expand the list started yet? Is the contestant's field still covering? And who's actually in charge of this? Are missing participants proactively approached by the Minister? Or should other participating parties do so? In addition, only Dutch interested parties have signed this covenant. To what extent are foreign suppliers actually involved? Mr. Chairman. The Minister has already given these signals and we have once again received these signals that hospitals are not yet ready for the introduction date of 1 July 2018 because of the unnecessary double administrative burden. In my view, this is one of the objectives of this minister, which has already been mentioned, to completely eliminate unnecessary administrative burdens. So I wonder what he'll do with these signals. How's he gonna pick this up and how's he gonna take care of the problems? Previously, the Minister indicated that only with a legal obligation will the parties take effective action, but that he does not want to place unnecessary administrative burdens on the parties. That's why he's talking about an ingrowth model. Can he explain this model further? How does that relate to the complaints of the hospitals? Is that what he's taking them away with? Are the hospitals well informed about the possibilities of the model? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra. She speaks on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been said by everyone, but the proposed amendment to the law that we passed in Chambers over a year ago, together with all of us, indicates how important we think it is to have that implant register. However, this amendment removes an amendment which was tabled by the PVV and which D66 also voted for. The amendment wanted to make it legally mandatory for each implant to have a uniform identification code with the aim of better protecting patients. In the Netherlands, we would take the lead instead of waiting for the European regulation. We have been talking about uniform bar coding for years and this seemed to be a very good opportunity to regulate this legally, although we were warned that it might not be possible. But we wanted to settle this as quickly as possible without having to wait for the European Union. Unfortunately, it turns out that there is no other way. In the meantime, the warning given by the previous Secretary of State that this might be contrary to current European regulations has been confirmed by the national attorney. If a device meets all the essential requirements, it shall qualify for a CE marking and be admitted to the market. Adding an additional requirement is not now possible. Whatever weighs heavily on me and why I do understand that we have to do this is that if you stick to this, the consequence may be that implants without code will not remain on the market here and are therefore no longer available to the patient. But, Mr President, the objective of providing implants with a unique code is widely shared. Is it true that what the amendment asks will apply from 2020? From that year on, do all implants actually have a unique code? I'd like a response from the Minister. The previous Secretary of State has indicated that the Ministry wants to encourage national agreements on uniform coding for medical devices. I'd like to hear from the Minister about this. We are talking about that amendment and that amendment, but this debate will of course also give us an opportunity to discuss the implementation of the legislative proposal. Colleagues have already done so. I have a few more questions about that. D66 considers it important to have a nationwide network to track implants, but we also consider it important to be connected to the existing practice. A number of occupational groups using implants already record this excellently and have already set up a system of information about the implants themselves. My question to the Minister is whether this new National Implant Register, as laid down by law, is in line with these existing initiatives. The Dutch Association of Hospitals, the Federation of Medical Specialists and the Dutch Federation of University Medical Centres have already been mentioned. In a letter they expressed their concerns about the unnecessary administrative burden. I also assume that this Minister does not want any increase in the administrative burden. In fact, that is an important agreement in the coalition agreement. Can the Minister tell me how double and/or manual imports are avoided when the new law is introduced? I agree with the questions that have already been raised by other speakers. The Minister states that the legal obligation must be implemented sustainably. That also means, I quote, "that the implants are scanable and are recorded once in the client file and that the recorded data are then provided to the national implant registry via an automatic link." I ask the Minister whether it is true that this is not possible at the moment and that, as long as this is not possible, there is still a double administrative burden. The field parties indicate that VWS would take the lead in reaching the desired agreements with software providers of the electronic patient file. Can the Minister confirm this and give the state of play? The field parties also indicate that the central data pool, of which I will spare you the English name, is not yet operational. In that database, manufacturers must provide the product information. My question is: who is ultimately responsible for this? Finally, Mr President. There will be a growth period in which healthcare institutions are expected to be able to demonstrate that they have taken the necessary steps to comply with legal obligations as of 1 July 2019. As has already been mentioned by others, the inspection will use the possibility of imposing an enforcement measure with restraint during that period. I wonder what this means for the care institutions. What do you have to take into account? What guarantee do they have that they won't get the inspection on their roof if they haven't taken care of it all in a good way? Or maybe the inspection will let things go that you don't want? I would therefore like a reflection from the Minister. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Agema. Mrs Agema speaks on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tracking a pack of milk takes four hours; tracking a medical device takes days, if not weeks. There's no such thing, is there? In this time of year, recall actions must be able to proceed better. That is why we put forward a proposal last year to provide all implants with a barcode. Such a unique barcoding ensures that medical implants are traceable, prevents errors and forgeries, improves patient safety and saves costs. A majority in the House of Representatives supported this proposal and our amendment was adopted, but that was against the sore foot of former Minister Schippers. That is why we are now talking about a legislative amendment which is intended to undo our amendment to the mandatory barcoding of implants. Although barcoding is already mandatory in America and will be mandatory in England next year, Minister Bruins for Medical Care would prefer to wait for a European regulation that will become mandatory in 2021. The purpose of that Regulation is the same, only the date of entry into force is different. Of course, let us not anticipate patient safety. Let us draw up a smokescreen with legal terms and European gibberish. The arguments are sometimes quite laughable. If the amendment was adopted, even staples, sutures and clips would have to be barcoded. I've rarely seen such a laughable argument. We've just heard the debate here, haven't we? Everyone understands that you can't put barcode on a wire, can you? It's true. It's true. It's true. And that while the scandals of recent years with the PIP breast implants and hip prostheses have clearly shown that there is quite a problem with detecting patients with defective implants. The fact that we do not have to wait for Europe is also reflected in the initiative of the Bernhoven hospital, which itself started the coding process. It is quite unclear to me why the obligation to provide implants with a barcode, as already laid down in a new European regulation, cannot enter into force in the Netherlands. When it comes to consumer protection or privacy issues such as Google, the Netherlands is all too happy to be at the forefront of European regulation. But when it comes to patient safety, our government doesn't give at home. Why not show Europe that we take patient safety seriously in the Netherlands and make it a top priority? Because the advantage of barcoding can hardly be denied, Minister Bruins replaces our amendment with an agreement document. Through non-binding agreements with the field, he thinks he can achieve the same thing. What a missed opportunity! After all, we agreed last year, after so many years since 2010, we have been discussing that we cannot leave it to the field, but that we now need legislation at last. This whole exercise, this whole bill is redundant. Just let the government implement our amendment. Make barcode mandatory. Dare to opt for patient safety, as we did at the time in matters of food safety. Not tomorrow, not 2021, but today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting for fifteen minutes and then give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u15	We will continue with the debate on the amendment of the legislative proposal relating to the establishment of the implant register. We've had the input from the Chamber. I am happy to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing a novelle, an amendment to the bill adopted last year on the National Implant Register. I'm gonna go into the purpose of that bill first. Incidents with implants, such as the PIP breast implants in 2012, have shown that it is difficult to track patients who have been implanted with defective implants. This sometimes prevents them from being dealt with in a timely manner. The problem is that the registration of the implants is not happening everywhere. We consider traceability of implants essential for patient safety. You actually named all of that. It is therefore very important that the registration of implants actually improves. The sooner we arrange that improvement, the better. That's the reason for this novelle. So we are not waiting for the European regulation. Any implant that is now on the market can cause problems in the future, although fortunately it is unlikely. But if there are problems, you want to be able to be approached as a patient quickly by your treating doctor. That's what the original bill is for. Then why is there this novelle now? The basic point is that this novelle will undo the amendment on unique barcoding that was adopted in the legislative proposal. That sounds a bit unkind in the direction of the proposers and those who voted for it. The amendment makes a unique barcode mandatory, with a line under which it is mandatory. Although we agree that unique barcoding of implants should be a reality earlier yesterday than today, a legal obligation causes delays because it is contrary to European law. I find this delay unnecessary. We would then have to start a time-consuming European notification procedure with an uncertain outcome. And that while the obligation to place the unique barcode is already in place. The European Regulation on medical devices will become applicable from May 2020 and the requirement for unique barcoding of implants in May 2021, i.e. three years from now. We have always said to you on your side and to me on mine that we do not want to wait for Europe. Patient safety is too important for that. That is why, in anticipation of that regulation, which will enter into force in three years' time, the field itself makes agreements on unique barcoding of implants. So that document on self-regulation is not a document in which the Dutch Government or the Ministry of VWS is party, because otherwise we would be back in the line that we would have entered into such a ratification procedure. The Chamber and the government did not want to wait three years for European legislation. So what can you do in advance? That has come to that document in which those self-agreements of the field have been made. Those agreements are about the barcoding of implants. If the field itself makes these agreements, this is not contrary to European law. So we can make meters in the next few years. Thanks to the agreements, the implants that have to be registered because of the National Implant Register are provided with a unique and unambiguous coding. This takes a step to register an implant in the patient file. A scan will do. Healthcare institutions should then provide the National Implant Register with the data on implants that have been included in a patient file by a healthcare professional. So one more time: from the patient's file that's the registration at the source goes, if it goes well later, the information automatically and without double administrative burden to that Rural Implant Register, that's LIR. That's what we want: to register once in the patient file and then pass it on towards the LIR. In order to do this as low as possible, read: automatic, it will take some time. I understand that there are concerns on this point about the date of entry into force. You have also expressed them, and I have also received a few letters about them. In my written response to the letter from the Federation of Medical Specialists, I indicated at an earlier point that I wanted to stick to the date of July 1, 2018 because I see that this pressure is moving parties. That's a cure I have. The patient's had to wait long enough for that. In the meantime, given the further legal treatment still needed in the Upper Chamber, it is no longer realistic to assume 1 July next. That is why I am prepared to allow the law to enter into force on 1 January 2019. I will continue to assume an ingrowth period of one year. So until 1 January 2020, the inspection will in principle not take enforcement action. This means that from now on parties will have more than a year and a half to comply with the law in a sustainable way. And I think that's enough time. Mr. Chairman. That was a general introduction because it came back to many of the questions raised by your Chamber. I would now like to comment more precisely on the questions that have been asked. I shall begin with the first speaker, Mr Van Gerven. Mr Van Gerven first raised the question of whether the Minister can guarantee that there is no financial conflict of interest. A guarantee is difficult to give. This is especially true through the band of the subject we are discussing today, namely the novella that leads to the National Implant Register. Another register has been set up that provides insight into financial interests. In addition, last year there were already legal obligations regarding favors adopted and incorporated into the Medical Devices Act. They asked about the state of play. This is the current state of affairs. Mr. Chairman. I come to another question from Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u17	I see that Mr Van Gerven has a question, I think about the previous point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u18	It's about the potential financial conflict of interest. The Minister describes the procedural side, or the laws and regulations that exist. One of the reasons why the implant registry came in was obviously conflict of interest. In the past, specialists had an interest in reducing certain implants, the quality of which was under discussion. That has also been regulated. In view of what we are discussing, I would like to ask the Minister again what the state of affairs is now. I understand, for example, that you need to be at the inspection or other bodies to see if there is any conflict of interest that we do not consider acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u19	That is not the subject we are discussing today. I would like to point out that the National Implant Register is only created to properly organise the traceability of implants. So this is not about financial conflicts of interest. This isn't about grace. It's in different rules. If Mr Van Gerven has a question on that, I would like to try to answer it, but that is really another subject. In any case, this is not arranged for the novella which is before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u20	In conclusion, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u21	Okay, I get that. I understand from the Minister's words that he still wants to respond through the band I play to the state of play regarding potential conflicts of interest and medical devices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u22	Well, the minister didn't understand that from his own mouth. There is a transparency register and a legal regime around favor. This may lead to a more specific question, but the question "How does the law work?" I think it's a little too general to answer. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Gerven asked if the Minister could explain what the amendment is about to do and what the Minister is about to do. I think I've tried to put that in the introductory words. In doing so, I am right in front of the subject of patient safety and I am not waiting for the European regulation. I am using the possibility of self-regulation in the healthcare sector to start the registration of implants in advance. Mr Van Gerven asked why the amendment is contrary to European law. In another way, Mrs Agema asked the same question. I thought Mr Van Gerven's way of asking was a little more friendly, so I will start with Mr Van Gerven in the answer. The amended bill contains a technical regulation. A technical regulation is a requirement imposed on a product. A technical regulation should be notified to the European Commission and other Member States. I think I've already used the word "identified." This will lead to a standstill period of six months to one year. During that period Member States and the Commission will be given the opportunity to comment on the amended legislative proposal. These comments must be taken into account by the Netherlands. During this period we cannot adopt the amended legislative proposal. In addition, the Commission may block the amended legislative proposal for 12 to 18 months if harmonisation work is carried out at European level on the same subject. There is a good chance that the Commission will block the amended bill, because new European regulations on medical devices have recently been adopted, including the regulation that will enter into force in 2021 on the subject we are discussing today. Then Mr Van Gerven asked whether sutures and staples are excluded in the European regulation. No, there are no barcodes in the European regulation for staples and sutures. Next question from Mr Van Gerven: How is security guaranteed in the years until the EU regulation enters into force? For the Dutch situation, we have the instrument of self-regulation through the document agreed between the parties on 22 June last year. At European level, I have just looked into an action plan containing elements on additional monitoring, additional requirements for inspection bodies, increased transparency in assessments and increased international cooperation and coordination. There is also a European toolbox alongside the Dutch instruments. The European regulation that has been adopted and which will be applicable in 2021 is much more important and concrete for us as regards implants as of May 2021. We and your room think it takes too long, and that is why we are bringing this novel. Mr Van Gerven's next question has also been asked by others. In the meantime, used by a self-regulation document of the sector, is sufficient? Does the Minister really think that healthcare providers can enforce compliance by manufacturers? Perhaps an agreement document drawn up and signed by the parties themselves is the most powerful document. That is a document to which the parties wish to keep themselves. Those parties have come to the table at an intercession from the department. Let me just say homely: we donated the coffee. We're not a party that forces anything. It is the parties who make agreements among themselves. It is a motivation for the parties to prepare themselves for the Regulation as soon as possible and in anticipation of the EU obligation. If manufacturers fail to comply with the agreements, healthcare providers can try to enforce compliance by purchasing. That is the situation we have now reached. I spoke today to one of the experts on this subject at our department and he said: I got an e-mail today from a manufacturer who was a little angry because a hospital suddenly started demanding barcodes. Is that okay with you? Yeah, it's okay, and it's gonna happen. I like that message and that's why I call it here. What does the Minister think of the request to postpone the date of entry into force? You have all received the letter, so have I, and many of you have asked this question. On the one hand, I think it helps by announcing that the date of entry into force should not be postponed. Keeping a little pressure on helps parties move towards a more concrete form of cooperation and progress. On the other hand, given that the proposal is still in the First Chamber, I do not think it is realistic to assume that it was all settled on 1 July. That is why we are moving towards the date of 1 January next year plus a year of growth, where the inspection will not proceed to the imposition of fines but will be able to have the conversation. This means that there is de facto a year and a half. Parties indicate that this should be feasible. The evidence lies in the future, but if parties say it themselves, I'll repeat it to them. Are double records desirable? That was another question from Mr Van Gerven. No, and they're not necessary either. From now on there is enough time to arrange implementation without double load, at least for the implants with a bar encoding. There may still be implants in the next few years that have no barcode on them. In that case, a form of double registration will be created temporarily. We hope, of course, that with this method we will be able to deal with and avoid the double administrative burden very quickly, at least until 2021. Another question from Mr Van Gerven: can the Minister guarantee the registration of scientific associations? If I understand correctly, this is about the next point. A patient file needs to be loaded. That's the registration at the source. It's already taking time and energy. In addition, you have quality registers of specialists. They need to be loaded, too. You're gonna have the National Implant Register, too. Isn't that a bit much? I don't think it's much. It is of course best if final agreements have been made on the transmission of data from the patient file, i.e. the source register, the registration at the source, to the quality register. In the broad agreement that I am concluding with the medical specialist sector, you will find a passage on this. Soon, I thought in June, there will be administrative consultation with specialists and care institutions on the transmission of data, which will ensure that the quality registers remain well-stocked. Another question from Mr Van Gerven: does the Minister want to ensure that data from the quality register are delivered to the implant register, in order to avoid duplication of administration? Yeah, I'd really like that. I think it is an important responsibility for parties to make good agreements on this. I will continue to facilitate that administrative consultation. I want to guard that, don't turn me away from it, but bow to it, but it's the parties that are going to make agreements about it. A single question from Mr Van Gerven. Can the Minister guarantee that data will be transmitted from the EPD to the scientific associations? I find it difficult to give that guarantee as a minister, which is really up to the field itself. You should also bear in mind that the quality registers have a different purpose than the National Implant Register, which is to measure the quality of implants. The National Implant Register is intended to ensure traceability and is not an instrument to measure the quality of care of implants. It is important, however, that this quality is measured and that the quality registers remain filled with data. As I said, I am pleased that this has been agreed in the recent agreement on medical-specialist care. It agreed that existing quality registers should be filled automatically from the patient file by 2020. Then there is the issue of the restraining action by the inspection. Does that mean, asked Mr Van Gerven, that they do not maintain at all, or does that mean anything else...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u23	I'll wait for that answer. But now that the Minister has stopped speaking, Mr Van Gerven has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u24	Let's talk about the previous point. It's all quite technical, but let me give you an example. The Orthopaedic Association receives almost 100% of all implants that are implanted for scientific purposes, the scientific association for orthopedics. Apparently that's going well now. Specialists ask that this should not be affected by the National Implant Register, which will soon be a legal obligation. Can the Minister guarantee that that won't happen? That is what they are asking for. I understand he's not the director of a hospital, but he is, with a bit of a modern word, system responsible for everything. It would be a shame, of course, if the quality registration were to suffer for scientific purposes because traceability must be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u25	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u26	I actually agree with Mr Van Gerven. We don't want double administrative burdens. We attach great importance to maintaining these quality registers of specialists. The situation we want to achieve, perhaps I can describe it a little plastically, is that registration at the source is the client file in the hospital. From that client file, in the ideal situation we hope to achieve in 2021, we will be handed over to the quality register of the specialists and the National Implant Register. That is what good agreements are made for the coming period, the time is there, the mindset is there for, so nothing stands in the way. Then there are no double charges and both registers are transmitted from the source, the client file.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u27	In conclusion, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think we agree that that would be the right situation, but there are concerns about it. I've been looking at what it's all going to cost to put that in. The Sira report is a spicy report. The administrative burden is spicy. But I am glad that the Minister says that the quality register of scientific associations should not suffer. The care institutions have the task of ensuring that this does not suffer from the introduction of the National Implant Register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u29	I understand that there is still some work to be done, but it may also be a bit of a choice between waiting three years and bumping into this European regulation or doing the most in the meantime. I feel supported by the comments you have made here today, which have also been made to my predecessor, in the belief that we must look as quickly as possible to see whether we can regulate these implants and the proper traceability of implants. If one can't do it, you're gonna do the other. I understand the reservations on the part of specialists and I am pleased that these specialists signed that document in their umbrella organisations on 22 June last year. Then why are they writing a letter? Because they're not all without worries. I understand that very well. That is why I think it is important for us on the one hand to say that we consider patient safety to be important and that we want to make a move in this respect. If we then make some extra time available, an active attitude and a facilitating role from the department ensure that these parties are brought together, I think we are on the right track. I would have stayed with Mr Van Gerven's question as to what exactly is meant by the cautious action by the inspection. Does this mean that they do not maintain at all or does it mean something else? The inspection will not use its legal capacity to impose an administrative measure, i.e. the imposition of a fine or a penalty charge for the first year. In addition to administrative measures, the inspection includes other measures, such as corrective measures, such as an interview with the driver. An improvement plan with deadlines can also be requested. I think it is in line with the growth year that such measures can be used. Then the point of the AMvB. Mr Van Gerven has asked: can the Minister indicate what is happening to this AMvB? The AMvB applies initially to all high risk implants. This list of implants has been carefully established, again in conversation with the field. The most important thing for these implants is traceability. The aim is to gradually expand the list, but in order to reduce administrative burdens, at least those high risk implants will soon be covered. Mr Van Gerven asked whether it was true that the Chamber has not yet seen the AMvB on the same subject. That's right. The procedural phase in which the AMvB is currently in the process stands in the way of this. The Council of State has now advised on the concept of the AMvB. It should now be made public by means of a further report. However, the legal basis of the AMvB, the underlying bill, is still in the Upper House. Therefore, the AMvB cannot be established. Adoption can only take place after the bill and the novelle have been adopted by the Upper Chamber. "What's our advantage?" The contents of the AMvB are largely already known to your Chamber. This concerns the categories of implants mentioned in the agreement document and the data set that has already been largely mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. De facto you have a lot of information about the AMvB. A lot of questions from Mr Van Gerven have also been asked by some others. I now come to the questions raised by Mrs De Vries of the VVD Group. Her first question was: how can the NVZ, FMS and NVU be critical, while they were involved in drawing up the agreement document? Indeed, these parties have been involved from the outset at both administrative and administrative levels. In order to speed things up, VWS has appointed at the request of these parties a driver or quarter-minute-maker, an independent person from the field who acted as an intermediary. Nevertheless, it is striking that parties have often taken a stand-by stance. Of course, a lot of things are connected. Healthcare institutions depend on the cooperation of manufacturers of implants or software suppliers. On the other hand, care institutions as market players, i.e. as customers, could have taken more active steps themselves, in my opinion, for example by forcing cooperation through purchasing conditions or by asking for a good and timely offer. I am glad that we are making progress on this point. Finally, the domes could have been more active in informing their own supporters, as agreed by the government. Let me end positively on this point: I expect that the postponement of the date of entry into force will also remove the criticism of the parties. Then there is Mrs De Vries' next question. Are you familiar with the possible problems if an implant is removed by another healthcare provider? The answer is yes, I am familiar with that. The cases of removal of an implant from another healthcare provider are known, including the parties in the field. In consultation with these field parties, a workable and logical solution is sought. It's not that easy. The Ministry of VWS is in talks with the Ministry of BZK about adapting the Basic Registration Persons Decision. This enables healthcare providers to automatically receive changes through the basic registration, for example about the death. Then there is a question from Mrs De Vries about the novella at the National Implant Register: what do you think of the concerns about the increase in administrative burdens caused by manual imports? I believe that the additional administrative burden should at least be temporary. I acknowledge that the web portal represents an additional, albeit minimal, administrative burden. Therefore, this web portal for the upcoming period, based on that document that field parties themselves have agreed, is meant as a temporary bridge for healthcare institutions, which also after the ingrowth period have not arranged for the data to be delivered automatically from the patient file to the National Implant Register. If care institutions have regulated the automatic provision of data before the end of the growth period, this is quite possible, because they have one and a half years to do so if you include the growth year.The web portal and the additional administrative burden are not necessary. The following question from Mrs De Vries: how is implants that cannot be directly scanned in the EPD, the patient file? At the end of the growth period, all implants to which the bill applies should therefore be scanable, not all implants, but all implants to which the bill applies. Old implants that do not have a barcode must still be registered manually. As long as implants are registered, whether manually or automatically, the healthcare institution complies with its legal obligation. If the implants are not registered, the Inspection may take enforcement action. Mrs Dijkstra also asked the following question. Does the agreement document of the field parties not impose requirements other than the European regulation which will enter into force in three years' time? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The only difference is in the date of entry into force. Is it true that VWS would take the lead in the direction of the EPD suppliers and software providers? No, there's a difference of opinion on that. VWS has not said that it will take the lead, but VWS has said that it wants to facilitate dialogue between the parties. I remain willing to facilitate the dialogue. This also fits within the arrangements of the information board. It also fits within the framework of European legislation that I mentioned earlier. Once again, VWS is not a legal party between suppliers and healthcare providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u30	A question from Mrs Van den Berg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u31	We get reports from the field that some pressure from the Ministry would help to achieve such a nationwide software system and adaptations. Now it is very difficult. I understand the Minister's saying that he should not play a role legally, but I was wondering if he might be able to look up the boundaries there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u32	It takes very little to organize the next table and bring the parties to the table. The parties must, of course, be prepared to come to the table. If they express concerns in the direction of the Chamber, they may also express them in our direction. Again, it takes very little. There is a lot of enthusiasm on our side to achieve that facilitating role to the maximum. We also serve the second cup of coffee. Mrs De Vries asked a question about the entry into force versus the administrative burden. If all the parties now get to work properly and we ensure that we are ready by 1 January next, including the period of growth, then that seems to me to be the best guarantee of avoiding a double administrative burden. Mrs De Vries also asks if I am prepared to table with NVZ, FMS and NFU and to report to the House before 1 July. Yeah, I'm gonna go round the table with those parties. There's an administrative meeting scheduled for June. I will see how I can inform the Chamber of Progress. Perhaps a report or a brief report could be drawn up. I'd be happy to inform the Chamber about that. I have now addressed Mrs De Vries' question on the cautious conduct of the inspection. Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA faction has also asked some questions, which I would like to answer. First of all, she asks why the Minister is confident that this form of self-regulation is working and why it has not been done before. I have just argued that this form of self-regulation is perhaps the strongest form, because the parties then regulate it among themselves. Why wasn't it done before? I think that's a good question, but I wouldn't know the answer. All I can see now is that the parties are finding each other ever better, that an active role of the department can be requested and that it is going to work. I always find the word "guarantee" difficult, but I am convinced that industry associations and manufacturers also see the importance of the traceability of implants. Asked what the Minister thinks about the fact that EPD suppliers could only deliver the necessary software elements by the end of 2018. Those suppliers are often international companies, which also have international planning. I am not sure whether the end of 2018 is too late, given the later date of entry into force and the period of growth. Again, should there be a desire to facilitate the conversation, including with these parties, I am happy to do so. Mrs Van den Berg also asked about the state of play regarding the talks between the Ministry and the EPD suppliers. It's like this. Last December a conversation took place between the domes of healthcare institutions and the software providers. That conversation was initiated at the request of the NVZ and the NFU. That was a good discussion, in which common principles were formulated. The outcome was that, on the basis of that discussion, parties will develop joint roadmaps for implementation. Meanwhile, VWS has received several versions of this. That's evidence of progress. If there is a need for a new conversation, people know that I am willing to do so. I have spoken about the temporary necessity of the web portal. The question has been asked whether I can inform the Chamber half-yearly about the progress of the implementation of the implant register. I'd like to be willing to do that. The subject also lends itself well to that. Both the Dutch Association of Hospitals and the independent clinics monitor the progress made by their supporters. Other interested parties can access VWS for an update themselves. I'd like to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u33	A question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u34	I am pleased that the Minister is putting these actions into effect. I understand that committee is going to look into that, too. But will that committee also see how things can be simpler and with fewer registrations? That is the complaint we hear from the field. The trees have gradually stopped seeing the forest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u35	Fortunately, the Minister has a nice piece of paper and also a piece of himself drawn over the last few days in preparation for this issue. I can imagine institutions finding it complicated. In the end, we want a registration at the source. That's the client file that gets drawn up in the hospital of the client, or patient, whatever you want to call it. The transfer in different directions will have to take place automatically, at the latest in three years. What we're doing now with that document is speeding up. Linking and finding each other still brings together all kinds of strong debates and also with us, but we should not avoid that. This is because of the objective we are working on: patient safety. We will have that registration at the source from the client file, to the implant register, to the quality register and, to complete the circle, also to the personal health environment. But then it has to be an automatism. Then we come back to another category of debate: what data should be transmitted from this unique source to the various other registers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u36	In conclusion, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u37	It is not quite clear to me whether the amount of quality registrations can be reduced. It is very nice that we get that automatic clutch, because that saves a lot of work. But still, it's a forest of quality registers. We hear that it would help if there were a few fewer numbers and there was a little more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u38	They're not my quality records. We have taken the issue of regulatory pressure, regulation pressure, together with the other colleagues on VWS intensively. But the quality records are from the specialists and not mine. Of course, it contains important data, such as blood types and side effects. That's not entirely useless. I find it difficult to say now with a big gesture: can it be a little easier? Then I would like to say: 'Dear specialist group, industry organisation of specialists, what rules do you mean?' Aren't they necessary anymore? Often they come from the need of your own profession. Without wanting to play back the ball completely now, because I feel very strongly about the subject of regulation, I do think that we should be a little more specific about this and see where which rules or data would no longer be needed. I have one more question to answer from Mrs van den Berg: by when is it realistic to expect small institutions to be able to register at source with automatic coupling? So I think that should be at the end of 2019, after the growth year. During that period up to one year after entry into force, the inspection will not use its legal capacity to impose the administrative measure. Let me repeat this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions asked by Mrs Ellemeet. What is the status of the legislation related to that EU regulation? The draft law implementing that regulation has now been dealt with by the Council of Ministers and will shortly be sent to the Council of State for advice. So this is the translation of the regulation adopted in Europe. It shall enter into force in 2020 for the devices and for the implants in 2021. A certain translation must be given, and that is the Council of State. Mrs Ellemeet also asked whether sanctions would be possible if the parties failed to comply with the agreement document. No, because that's not what the inspection can maintain. So this really is a mutual document, i.e. self-regulation. Of course, it is possible, and I understand that the NFU is already working on this, to include that theme of barcoding in purchasing terms. I think that is a very useful way of working, because that of course greatly encourages that bar coding to come and be available. Indeed, healthcare providers can try to force manufacturers to comply with rules, in anticipation of this EU regulation. Are there already manufacturers who do not comply with the agreements? Are they buying in? I'm not familiar with those signals. However, I have already mentioned the point that health care institutions have included uniform barcoding in the purchasing conditions. What does the Minister do with signals about the date of entry into force? I've already talked about that. To what extent are foreign suppliers involved? In the conversations we conduct and in the agreement document, all suppliers who are active on the Dutch market are actually involved, namely through their umbrella organisations. Are the hospitals well informed about the growth model? After this debate, too, extra attention will be needed, for example to the question of what the date of entry into force and the date of growth will mean for a hospital. No fine, no penalty, but then what? That monitoring policy is going to put the inspection on paper very quickly, as far as it is not yet on paper, and it will discuss it in the administrative consultation scheduled for 14 June. Finally. Are the calls to expand the list already planned? So this is about the list of groups of implants that can be placed in such an AMvB. The answer is negative. First, the focus is on the implementation of this bill. A working group on uniform barcoding has already been set up, with the industry associations, with the NFU and the hospitals. So there is work going on. It's not like there's a standstill. However, the emphasis is now first on the list you know from the legislative proposal that was pending in this Chamber last year. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm almost through it, at least because of the questions asked. Mrs Dijkstra of D66 asked whether it was true that what the amendment is asking for will also apply from 2020 or 2021. Well, not exactly. The amendment asked for "all implants" and the regulation will not apply to all implants. It is perhaps a bit unfriendly towards Mrs Agema, because it is as if sutures and staples do not matter. But here I have to be precise, because it is not about sutures and staples. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dijkstra's follow-up question was whether the new implant register is in line with existing initiatives. I have argued that this is the case, but a little water will go to the sea. I am well aware that Registration at the source and the flowing out, preferably automatically, to those different sub-systems with the guarantees involved, is not easy and that this requires some attention. But we do not want to get rid of these principles: Registration at source, EU standards and VIPP. We will continue to work with that, but it must end up in the same pattern. I believe that there should also be an active role of the Ministry. Hence the importance I attach to the information consultation, which I have mentioned before and which will shortly be the subject of a technical briefing. What is the situation with regard to the fulfilment of the agreements contained in the agreement document by the parties concerned? That is what I have been talking about. Can the Minister tell us what is going on with double or manual input? That's what I've been working on. Can the Minister confirm that the VWS Ministry is leading the way in coordinating with the EPD suppliers? I have indicated that we do not have the lead, but facilitate the talks. That's another part. I think it is important to emphasise this issue of self-regulation. Mrs. Dijksma asked who is ultimately responsible for the database. I assume she means the database associated with the National Implant Register. As a minister of medical care, I am responsible for that. Finally, Mrs Dijkstra's question is whether it is true that scanning and the like of implants is currently not possible and now leads to double administrative burdens. More than half of them already have a uniform code. So I expect to have achieved this by the end of 2019 for all implants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u39	Thank you. A question from Mrs Dijkstra. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u40	I'm going to go into that central data pool, the GS1 Data Source Healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u41	Yes, sir. Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u42	I'm just gonna say it in full anyway. The Minister is responsible for this, but we hear the sound that this data pool is not operational.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u43	Sorry, we're talking about two things. There is, of course, that agreement document between the parties and they work with that GS1. That is a supplier and I understand that there are other suppliers and that there is discussion between the parties whether GS1 meets all the needs. I don't know exactly where that criticism came from. I don't know if that's gonna get blown up by other parties, and I don't want to suspect anyone either. But that is a matter for the parties. What I think is important is that data is collected in what is now called GS1 and that it is conveniently transferred into that National Implant Register. I'm not responsible for GS1, but I'm going to be responsible for that National Implant Register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u44	Finalizing, Mrs. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u45	The minister says that that central data pool doesn't have to be that "GS-One" or, to put it mildly, that GS1 has to be. It is therefore no wonder that it is not yet operational.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u46	It's part of that timely...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u47	But when does it have to be operational?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mrs Dijkstra, please finish your question. Or was this it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u49	That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u50	The entry into force of that National Implant Register is foreseen for 2019. That is also the moment I am focusing on. And that is a different system than "GS-One." That is a source, a supplier, which the private parties have jointly used and selected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u51	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr. Chairman. Actually, I've run out of questions. In Mrs Agema's speech there was not so much a question as an apple, namely: implement the amendment. I think it took me about an hour and a half to answer that I don't think that's a good idea, because that doesn't serve patient safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u53	Good. Then we have come to the end of the Minister's response. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed and thorough answer in what is actually a tough, technical matter. I have two more questions. First of all, can he say anything about the concerns that the SP Group has about how private clinics are going, so in 'non-hospitals', let me put it this way. We've had inspection reports and they're not encouraging. There's still a lot of work to be done. How is the inspection going to ensure that things are going well, as we want? The second point is the discussion on the registers of scientific associations. I had a motion in preparation. I'm just saying the operative part here. In the operative part of the document, I had it stated that, when the law was introduced, the health care institutions would be obliged to forward the data from the electronic patient files to the implant registers of the scientific associations. The Minister said that the introduction of the National Implantation Register should not bring about the scientific work of the associations. We have once again noted that this is not the intention, and I think that this message has come across well, including in the care institutions and in the administrations of the healthcare institutions. So I would like to leave it at this repetition of my opinion and I assume that the Minister agrees with that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs De Vries for her second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Minister's reply. Good thing it's being postponed by six months, so there's more time to inventory. I still have a few questions for the Minister. It has been said that the General Measure of Governance can only go outside after the adoption of the law. We understand that. However, we would like the House of Representatives to be informed of this at least. I also think it is important that we as the House of Representatives be informed by extending the list that may be included in the AMvB. My final point. I still have a problem with how the Minister indicates what his role is. It almost looks like that's just a cup of coffee. Everything has, of course, started with a law that this minister or the minister's predecessor has submitted. The agreement document came into being after an amendment was adopted in this Chamber. As a VVD, we consider it important to register once, to avoid duplication of administrative burdens and to avoid any additional administrative burden temporarily. We believe that a little more effort by the Ministry is really needed to bring the parties together, because the National Implant Register is something of this Minister. He also said: 'I am responsible for this'. Then I do not think he can say that it is only up to the parties in the field to ensure that the proper transmission of that data is possible. We consider them necessary for the sake of acceptance, but also for the sake of patient safety, because I think that is what we are all doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Van den Berg, your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer in this technical dossier. In addition to what Mrs De Vries has already called for and what I mentioned earlier in an interruption, I ask the Minister if he can look up the borders. The only call that we are going to get out of the field every time is whether the Ministry can take more direction to ensure that all the institutions and stakeholders come to a greater degree of clarity. Not only with this file, but also with other files. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u59	Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet for her second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Minister for answering the questions. I agree wholeheartedly with what Mrs De Vries has said. I think it is important that the Minister takes the responsibility here to remove the confusion and unrest that exist in the field as much as possible. He also mentioned the administrative consultation on 14 June. I think we should see what questions remain in the field. Then, as far as I am concerned, it is up to the Minister to look at what still needs to be clearly communicated, so that everyone knows exactly what he is up to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. I'll do it with interruption, if you don't mind. I agree with the questions that have been raised, in particular on the regulatory burden. I don't think it's necessary to have a whole story about that, but I do think it's important to let you know that I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u63	Good. Thank you. Then we'll take it that way. Mrs Agema does not use the second term. Then I'll look in the direction of the minister. He says he needs a single moment to prepare the answer, so I shall suspend the sitting for a single minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u64	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for his answer in the second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u65	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Gerven asked first of all how the private clinics are doing. I did not go into that in detail in the first period. I understand that they are also involved in making agreements, that June document last year. The inspection can also supervise independent clinics, so if that implant register is in place soon then there is also a role for inspection. I also find it interesting to report that the dome organisation of the private clinics has put together a special team that supports the implementation of the registry by their members. Mrs De Vries asked me to inform the Chamber when the AMvB arrives. Well, I'd be happy to. It was a bit of a long process answer that I had to give in the first term; so are the rules of the game. I think the most important thing is that list of categories of implants; you also referred to them. You can find that list on last year's bill. If that list is extended, you also want to be informed. That is fine with me, but I think that by then the EU regulation has laid down the rules for this, so that may not happen as soon as possible. Mrs De Vries, Mrs Van den Berg, Mrs Dijkstra, Mrs Ellemeet and, in fact, all the spokesmen have asked whether the call has been made not to make my role too small. It is not true that it is just a question of drinking coffee. We are making a novelle here today, and I am responsible for that. I'll bring him to you. There is a role for the inspection, so it is a role for me that from now on it is properly recorded and that progress is monitored. There is also a role for the parties themselves, which I would like to emphasise. The responsibility for recording, and for monitoring, lies with me. But in the question of how this happens, there is also a role for the parties in the field. And if there are any doubts about it or if it needs to be chased, then I can very well use the active role that you encourage me to do, and I will use it. Perhaps that was not necessary, because that is how I feel. That is what I want to say in the direction of both Mrs van den Berg and Mrs De Vries and Mrs Ellemeet. Finally, I would like to say that we are preparing a policy document on regulation and reducing it. "We" are the colleagues De Jonge, Blokhuis and I. This regulatory burden remains a very important issue for us. In addition, the desire and need for the professional to notice that there is less regulation and that he has to deal with it. I think we are going to have a debate on this before the summer holidays. This will raise the question of whether it is always the rules of the government that are at issue, or whether they are sometimes also rules of the profession or of the trade association.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you. That raises a number of questions. First of all, Mrs De Vries has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u67	It is fine that the Minister does not want to make his role too small, but I do want to see that role wider than just monitoring progress. I also think his role is important when it comes to the administrative burden and the exchange of information. I am certainly saying this in order to keep that regulatory pressure as low as possible, for which I also feel a responsibility. I hope the Minister feels it, too. We need to make sure that there is a real one-off registration. In any case, I would also like to call on the Minister to take up this role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u68	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u69	The Minister fully agrees with that. That is why I am referring to that separate document that we are making. My signature is also here, and I feel obliged to do so. Remarkably less rules in care; that is the adadium and we have to work towards them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u70	My question follows on from that. We're going to talk about this. This includes the question of how to get past the slogan and how to turn it into action. The same applies, of course, to the subject we are discussing today. The Minister says: of course, I am actively committed to this. But I'd like to ask him to be proactive. Anyway, I understand from the Minister that he's willing to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u71	That's how I see the part. That is why I see the importance of this information consultation. That is indeed not to follow, but that is sometimes also to hunt or drive and therefore proactively. So I agree, Mr President. I think I have come to the end of the answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u72	I look around and I do not see anyone who wants to ask any further questions. This means that we have come to the end of the discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-9.u73	The vote on the bill will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for his contribution to the debate. I thank the Members of Parliament. I would also like to thank those who are interested, both those sitting here in the gallery and those who have followed this debate in a different way.
