ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u1	The next item is the debate on the protection and preservation of heritage. It is a special debate. All the debates in our Chamber are special, but today one of the Members is making her maiden speech. However, she is the second speaker, because the first speaker is the applicant for the debate, Mrs Bergkamp of D66. I therefore give her the opportunity to speak first. Then we will listen with attention to the maiden speech. Mrs. Bergkamp, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good to see that there is so much interest in the subject of heritage in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the Heritage Act, my group argued that it is not the end point, but the starting point to better take care of our heritage. Together, we must protect our heritage, the tangible past, from future generations, because our heritage shows what binds us, what distinguishes us and how we have become as we are. Moreover, heritage can also show us how we don't want to be. That way we can learn from our history. The vision of Heritage Counts with an integral approach is therefore of great value to my group. We support the commitment to sustainable, re-voting, making the heritage accessible and preparing it for an uncertain future, for example due to climate change. We are also pleased that considerable investment is being made in our heritage: 325 million. I do have a few more questions. King Willem Alexander wanted to make Huis ten Bosch more sustainable with solar panels, but he was not allowed because of the monumental status of the palace. Now my party believes that rules should be the same for everyone, even for the king of England, there should be no misunderstanding about this, but I would like to see the Minister examine again what rules are hampering sustainability. Would the Minister like to look together with municipalities to see what bottlenecks are experienced in our current legislation and regulations? Dan Drenthe. Heritage can show you where you're from. The same applies to the Colonies of Welfare in Drenthe. No less than one in sixteen Dutch ancestors live there. I look very quickly into the room; I see that at least a number of people have ancestors there. Poor people could work there voluntarily, but there were also forced recordings in the compulsion colonies. It's a very special story. A world heritage nomination is therefore being developed. However, it has not yet been honoured. Will the Minister make an effort to increase the protection of this heritage? Can she include in the Dutch-Flemish steering committee that there should be attention to protection, so that this beautiful nomination gets closer? Very technical: it has to do with the planning assurance, I understand. Then there's the monument scheme. There is also a concept subsidy scheme for individuals today. My group believes that it is a good thing that we have looked at how we can achieve an effective settlement. Control by the Tax Administration was not possible, but the RCE has the required knowledge. However, I think it is important that the scheme remains accessible and ensures that the owners have as little control pressure as possible. My question is therefore: what has been the consultation with all those involved? Because I have received a lot of e-mails and I think that is true of all the culture spokesmen. There's quite a bit of commotion. I think it's also important that people have a point of contact when they have questions, because I saw in all those e-mails some things that I thought were: I don't think that's quite right. But I also saw some legitimate questions. I believe that this debate should also clarify a number of issues. Does the target group of this scheme consist of all natural owners who have a commercial right to a national monument with a living function? I think it is important for the Minister to clarify this. For example, if you rent out a national monument, are you also covered by this arrangement? I hope so, I say. It is very important, I think, for the Court to see this regulation again when it comes to changing the rules in the future. Especially in view of all the discussion, we want to know as a Chamber if anything changes. Will the Minister thoroughly evaluate the Sim scheme in consultation with the owners? Mr. Chairman. Another subject is disputed heritage. There are good examples of how we can deal with disputed heritage. For example, think of the Rijksmuseum, which has looked critically at descriptions of paintings. It is, I think, an issue on which the debate should take place in society, but where it is also important to look at a piece of expertise. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she would like to consult with UNESCO in order to reflect on that. Mr President, I will conclude. This summer the giants of Royal de Luxe walked through Leeuwarden, our cultural capital. A feather for how it was organized this year. I think we've been able to enjoy that very much. Last weekend was Open Monument Day. These, according to all, are very nice examples of heritage that connects culturally. To be honest, I can't come up with any more beautiful examples. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you. There is another question for you from Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The representative of D66 has already pointed it out, the Rijksmuseum. This is becoming more politically correct every day. There's all these signs of "this is a disgrace" and "that can't happen anymore." The last action of these people is that all kinds of words are suddenly deleted. "Eskimo" is offensive, "Hottentot" was already blacklisted and "nigger" is no longer allowed. How does D66, as a liberal party, feel that such a cultural-maxist ideology is actually being rammed into the hands of Dutch people? Taxpayers are not waiting for it, as is clear from nowhere, and yet that ideology is being rammed through through such a museum. What does D66 think of that as a liberal party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u5	I think it is very good that there is a discussion in our society, because when it comes to heritage, the context sometimes changes, and that is what you have to talk about. An example is indeed the Rijksmuseum, which has looked critically at all names. By the way, that is the responsibility of the Rijksmuseum itself, but I think it is a good thing that we have this discussion together as a society. You can see that in countries around us. My question to the Minister is therefore to have a look at an organisation such as UNESCO to see how to deal with it in a good way. Not to impose it from top to bottom, but to give room for discussion, locally, in museums, in schools. I don't find anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u6	No. Of course, everyone agrees that there is a discussion. That's not an answer. I'll ask what D66 thinks of that. Then the representative of that party says that it is fun and that it is happening from within society. No, not at all. Another member has just been added to the Supervisory Board or the Board of Directors of the Rijksmuseum, a former Member of the Parliament of GroenLinks. So that becomes even more politically correct, that becomes even more shame, that becomes even more anti-Dutch in its essence, that becomes even more "Look at us being bad," that becomes even more the "way with us" culture. What does D66 think of that being pushed through and that the Netherlands has not been asked at all, but that all kinds of people are in those positions and ram that ideology right through?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u7	What I consider to be social-liberal is that it would not be good if we were to impose what a museum should do from The Hague. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u8	Thank you. There's one more question for you, Mrs. Dik, and she has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Bergkamp for walking back a little bit. I was looking. Mrs Bergkamp was right to draw attention to the heritage that could be a loaded part of history. Of course, it's always looking for how we deal with it. There must be an appropriate destination. I am reminded that there is a bunker in the vicinity of The Hague that was used by the occupying forces in World War II and that it is sold by the Empire. The question now is what will happen to it. My question to Mrs Bergkamp is whether we can ask the Minister together whether there can be a suitable destination and whether she shares my view that it is not entirely appropriate if there is perhaps a brothel in that loaded place or a tasty table, because that is the function, the destination, which is feared.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u10	Thank you for the question. It fits in very nicely with the subject I just had an interrupting debate on with the PVV. It also indicates that it is good to have that discussion with each other. It is sometimes a real sin, I say that, looking at the example you mentioned, perhaps a destination that we do not consider desirable from the point of view of cultural history. But of course there are always parties who have the responsibility, for example the municipality of Amsterdam or the owner. So I think it is a fair question, but I think it would be a good idea to reflect a little more broadly on that. For now you are talking about a bunker, but not so long ago there was also a discussion about the Wall of Mussert. There were pros and cons too. In my view, you confirm what I just said, namely that it is good to look at it in a broad sense and get advice from UNESCO. Perhaps we should organise a wider debate or a hearing on this as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u11	Do you have another question, Mrs. Dik-Faber? No? Fine. Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Laan-Selschap. She'll make her maiden speech here. Let me also say that I warmly welcome her husband, the three children and her brother. Those involved in the Chamber are going to listen to you with great interest. No one should interrupt you and you will have ample speaking time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u12	I'm gonna enjoy that. Madam President, thank you very much. A debate on the protection and preservation of the Dutch heritage, which is almost the most beautiful subject you can talk about, because heritage makes our country. A nice side effect is that I rise again in the ranking of EenVandaag with this debate. That's always nice. Mr. Chairman. In 1979, I was allowed to go on a teenage tour with a girlfriend. In addition to visiting the Efteling of course, and my hometown of Enschede, we also visited The Hague, with the main aim of visiting the House of Representatives. I really liked that. My girlfriend was a little less. A look in the old hall with the then still green benches was interesting, but today it is much more fun to be here in the famous blue chairs. Having a look at parliament buildings has since expanded, because I have been in a lot of countries. I have seen the Parliament buildings of Bucharest, London, Washington, Paris and Cape Town, each with its own dynamism and political energy. A separate hobby of mine, which I share with my husband. The political virus, as we call it at home. However, my main motivation for contributing to society in everyday life and here is the phenomenon of freedom. Freedom, with the additional responsibility for your own actions, but also responsibility for each other. From home I got these values with one big addition: respect. Respect for other people and for other opinions. I certainly do not agree with many, many things being said, and I am not the worst one to find any of them. My facial expression often speaks volumes. Ask my colleagues! I'm a big supporter of expressing your thoughts. Perhaps my political roots are in Rotterdam. The city where you think what you say, where it's about what lives on the street and decorum probably matters less. The city that taught me how to debate and where I meet people every day, whether or not along the line of a football field or rugby field, for which we work here every day. Discuss and debate together. It'll make you both better. That's how we did it at home in our family, at dinner. That's how both my parents were put together, and that's how my brothers and I were raised. A liberal defense family with appreciation for the spoken word, living in many places in the Netherlands, but also in Germany, where humour caused the relativizing factor. Today, Madam President, I am standing here with the second maiden speech within my own family. Quite a unique situation. My husband, Jock Geselschap, was behind this chair almost two years ago. What a hell of a man that man is! What support and desperation over the years. Together we've had a lot of choice, but together we're still looking at the future through optimistic glasses. Thank you. To a future for this country and for our kids. Three tough guys who hope to live, live, study and work in this country. In that freedom I was just talking about. Freedom to be who you want to be and to say what you want and what you think. Freedom to love who they want to love later, without anyone trying to limit it for any reason. With that basic attitude and thanks to the VVD that I may be a representative of the most beautiful party in the Netherlands, I go on to the agenda item for which we are actually here. Mr. Chairman. Heritage. A subject where my affinity lies. Not just mine, but many Dutch. Last weekend was Monumentendag and 80% of the municipalities in the Netherlands participate in this. Almost a million people have visited a monument on his or her corner. Isn't that great? Heritage keeps our history alive. Heritage is important. It gives character to our country. It is not for nothing that it is explicitly stated in the coalition agreement, which we as VVD are very pleased with. Unfortunately, speaking time is too short to cover all monuments and all aspects of them. We have about 62,000 national monuments in the Netherlands. However, there is also a group of monuments that do not meet the criteria of national monument, but do have a monumental status. In the VVD's view, it would encourage the development of national monuments that have been restored and exploited well, as a token of recognition and appreciation for the building and the volunteers working to make history part of our daily lives. I'm filing a motion for this later. Mr. Chairman. The visibility of heritage is important for support and brings with it an economic opportunity for the VVD. Why don't we make it clear where these gems are in our country? The brown signs along the French highways on which chateaus are marked, who doesn't know them? We can use such referees in the Netherlands. I shall be tabling a motion for this later. Mobile heritage is not explicitly mentioned in the vision letter and is not specifically found in the state budget either. The previous cabinet has taken a major step by recognising mobile heritage in the Heritage Act. Mobile heritage, which is largely managed and maintained by volunteers in the Netherlands, is important for the VVD. Filling the National Register Mobile Heritage must also be done by these volunteers. Can the Minister ensure that some of the extra funds she has made available to support volunteers end up with the group of people involved in the maintenance of aircraft, ships and cars, among other things? My colleague has already asked questions about this this summer. This heritage is closely linked to the past and people are working on it with their whole soul and salvation every weekend. Then last but not least, a system change of the monument deduction. Monuments are important to our society, not only to look at but in many cases also to live in. This is a special group of people involved who make the combination of living in a special building with the preservation of our history. Given the positive tone, text and title of the policy vision Heritage Count, it is logical for the VVD that we continue to support these residents and that they can continue to live in these monuments. For users, however, the conversion of the system does not make any sense at all. Because why would you want a system change? The change creates financial uncertainty for the owners. The available budget is apparently reduced and as owner/rentor you are no longer eligible for subsidy. The rules are actually changed during the game, because you can't just leave your home. The VVD doesn't want that. We are therefore tabling a motion stating that the owners/rentors are also eligible for the conservation grant and that a subsidy threshold for maintenance work is deleted. In short, we want residents who now care for our heritage to continue to do so in the future. So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u13	I know everyone would like to congratulate you very much. Thank God I'm the first. I should like to congratulate you on this beautiful and moving maiden speech. We look forward to all the debates with you. I'm sure there'll be flowers. The family can go downstairs. They can sit there after that. Happy birthday! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u14	We'll have another speaker. That is not the speaker on the list, but it is Mr Bosma, who is given the room by the Chamber to make his contribution now because he then goes to the Language Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u15	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Ellemeet, both of whom were kind enough to hurry up. Thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a history to be proud of. Our heritage plays an important role in that. According to the French historian Ernest Renan, the nation is a "spiritual principle, grown in a long history of common struggle and sacrifice. It manifests itself in the will of destiny in present and future." Mr. Chairman. Let us therefore be proud of our history and our VOC mentality, and not let us be pushed into the defense by the minions of May 1968, who see our history mainly as a source of shame. History is rewritten by the left elite, a characteristic of a totalitarian ideology. "1984." Many museums are now mainly a temple of self-hatred. Our colonial past, which brought modernity all over the world, must always be broken down there. In paintings, politically correct signs hang with raised fingers. The Rijksmuseum is now going to banish all kinds of words. Eskimo, nigger, hottentot; you can't say it anymore, otherwise Sylvana Simons gets angry. The museums only want to tell one side about slavery: the side that puts the West in the dock. How much attention will the new Slavery Museum in Amsterdam devote to the slavery committed by Muslims with white Europeans as victims? This happened for centuries with Muslim raids from Iceland to Italy. Millions of white people were robbed like this. It was much bigger than the transatlantic slave trade. But that doesn't fit in with the May 1968 picture. The D66 alderman of Amsterdam has already told us that the museum is built from a "black perspective," but certainly not from the perspective of blacks who were robbed by Muslims in Africa. Also, we probably won't hear about blacks captured by other blacks. Is that correct, Minister? Mr President, will the Minister, with 80 million for what is then called 'historical-democratic consciousness', also provoke children against our dear Black Piet, who is often and completely wrongly associated with colonialism by black racists and their left-wing advocates? That would be a great scandal and again a victory of the anti-Dutch forces. I hope not. Can the Minister assure me that? Black Piet is and remains black and is an unnegotiable part of our heritage. The left footage storm must stop. Removing street signs and statues is a sign of self-loathing, a sign that our culture is sick. Witte de With, Jan Pieterszoon Coen, Jan van Riebeeck, they all have to stay. Mr. Chairman. Our magnificent colonial heritage must be defended, even abroad, also across our borders. See South Africa, Brazil, Ceylon and India. Something big was done there. Does the Minister intend to preserve and defend our heritage in the foreign world? Mr. Chairman. Look at the city centre of Amsterdam in terms of heritage. Under D66-alderman Ollongren that has become an urban jungle, full of vomiting British tourists and smoking spanjos. What a disgrace, what a mockery! The Dutch flee from the city centre of Amsterdam and move elsewhere. Saturday in Het Parool: "The tourism crap wins, I leave"; ethnic cleaning. The open border hell of D66, the cramped tendency to tolerate and the love of that party for drugs mean the unbearable downfall of our beautiful historical heritage. Today Amsterdam city centre, tomorrow Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u16	Then, as the fourth speaker of the Chamber... I am looking at Mrs Dik-Faber, but she points to Mrs Ellemeet. There's some consternation about the order, but it's gonna be okay. It will still be Mrs Dik-Faber, speaking on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to give room for other obligations if colleagues have them, but I think they will be fine. The Minister's letter of heritage is a feast to read. There is considerable investment in the maintenance of our heritage. That's not money for rocks. It's about keeping our history alive. Buildings tell the history of our country and are therefore cultural carriers that we want to pass on to our children and grandchildren. The Christian Union has made a successful effort to preserve church heritage, and the Minister also elaborates on this in her letter. There is money available for restoration of monumental churches, and municipalities are encouraged to draw up church visions. In the meantime, how many municipalities are in the process of drawing up church visions? How are municipalities and church owners informed? How are the additional resources deployed for this purpose? And how can we ensure that involvement in church buildings does not arise only when a building is in danger of being sold and re-destined or demolished? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is concerned about the preservation of the interior, which is an integral part of a church building. Continue use offers the best guarantee of maintaining the interior, but that is not always possible. That's why it would be good if the interior would have a place in the church visions, which would be set up by the municipal authorities. Will the Minister take this with her in consultation with municipalities? Mr. Chairman. Previously, the Chamber incorporated the amendment that I co-signed into the Heritage Act in order to protect ensembles. The Minister can work actively on this by identifying top ensembles for churches and interiors. Is she willing to do this? And does she see the possibility of financing restoration and preservation of interior parts that are not possible under monument financing but which are an integral part of the ensemble? Think, for example, of pulpits or retables. Mr. Chairman. Not everything can be saved. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u18	An interruption at the previous point. Mrs. Laan-Selschap, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u19	How does CU weigh sticking to those ensembles in relation to giving churches new destiny to preserve them for society? A church in which you keep everything, you can't dedicate to anything else and then it might be very difficult to just leave those things in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u20	I can understand the question very well. It is indeed a tension field. If you go to re-destination, it will have consequences for the building, which is inevitable. At the same time, I see examples in practice showing that there is too rigorous, ill-thought-out, and I want to avoid that. On my desk is a book of 100 valuable church interiors. That book is only a few years old. So there's 100 in there, and five of them are already re-destined. The interior is simply gone, irreparably damaged and also unrecoverable. I think that is bad examples, and I would very much like us to take a good look at them. That is why I ask the Minister to designate top ensembles so that we can get direction from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u21	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u22	Mr. Chairman. Not everything can be saved, but now it's not going well. For example, the municipality of Delft might be a good example for Mrs Laan-Geselschap, which has far-reaching plans for a large-scale renovation of the Walloon church, which is part of the Prinsenhof complex. In these plans the pulpit and the organ must disappear and even an inner wall is largely demolished. My appeal: let us make sure that the 21st century does not become a time that will later be known as a new image storm. Mr. Chairman. Sustainability of monuments is customization. Restoration or re-destination is a logical moment to make a sustainable stroke. Would the Minister like to examine the possibilities of making sustainability part of plans for restoration or redevelopment in the short term? The Christian Union has always worked for the green monuments. Following an earlier motion, this is now also subject to structural additional funding, and I welcome that. Is it also sufficient to restore the basic structure of the green heritage? Will the Minister keep the Chamber informed of progress? Mr. Chairman. Maintaining our heritage cannot be achieved without the unbridled commitment of many volunteers. Can the Minister explain how the investments for volunteers are distributed? What other opportunities does she see to support volunteers? The Christian Union considers it important that there be a right to challenge when it comes to re-destination. How does this materialise in heritage policy? Mr. Chairman. The intention is to replace the tax deduction for the maintenance of monuments with a subsidy. Is it true that owners who rent a monument face a significant deterioration because only owners are eligible for subsidies? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Heritage is, of course, not only about buildings, but also about traditions. It's nice to see how a young generation of traditions keeps alive or breathes new life into it. Think of stippling from Staphorst, the costume that is re-styled and re-weared, as I also put on a skirt from Staphorst today. This year Leeuwarden-Fryslán is the European Capital of Culture. I'm proud of that. The Frisian language is recognized as a state language, accepted in law, administration and education. In doing so, it belongs to our culture and living heritage. However, children speak it less and less, it is the language of their parents. That goes for me, too. Maintaining the Frisian language and culture is a joint responsibility of the Empire and the Province. What possibilities does the Minister see for keeping the Frisian alive from her own authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u23	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Last Thursday afternoon was a special afternoon for the Westergasfabriek. On the roof of the Gashoud, one of Amsterdam's monumental icons, solar panels were unveiled that from now on generate energy for local residents. This festive event was the culmination of a complete sustainability of the former gas plant: from energy-saving measures to energy generation. A project that I started in a previous life as Deputy Director, because I thought it was important that monuments are also a calling card for the transition we want to go through. Mr President, I can tell you: that is not easy. The sustainability of monuments has evolved considerably in recent years. Organisations like the Restoration Fund are indispensable to do this quality well, with the knowledge of monuments. They're not the first buildings you've dealt with. There's a lot involved and the demands are high. That brings me straight to my first question to the Minister. Is it true that she, like GroenLinks, values a high quality standard for the sustainability of monuments? Does she agree with my group that it should be possible to accompany projects from the Restoration Fund aimed at making monuments more sustainable without being linked to a restoration declaration? It also happens that monuments have already been restored, but still need to be preserved. That is not yet possible or hardly possible. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Monuments tell stories. There are also a lot of interesting stories to tell about special buildings built after the Second World War. The post-war period was characterized by reconstruction, strength and the creative ideal. This led to a revolution in architecture. Of the 60,000 national monuments, only 200 are from the period of reconstruction, while the stories of this post-war period are so important to who we are and where we are today as a society. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she also attaches importance to the heritage of this period. Can it reflect on the fact that so few of these buildings are on the national monument list? How does she feel about that? I like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. Heritage helps us reflect on who we are. The same applies to intangible heritage. It is important to pay attention to the diversity that characterizes our history. From the arts we have heard very recently that more attention needs to be paid to diversity. Does the Minister with GroenLinks believe that diversity also deserves more attention within heritage? Think of our history of slavery, a subject that is currently being financially supported by the government, as well as by events from the Dutch East Indies. Can the Minister explain how she sees this and how she would like to link heritage and diversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u25	Mr Bosma has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u26	I do have a question about that. GroenLinks is in power in Amsterdam. We all pay the price for that, but okay. There's gonna be a slavery museum. Now you would think that those left-wing people have a great aversion to slavery, and that's why they have a slavery museum, but probably if I have to believe the messages, only one form of slavery is described in that museum, namely transatlantic slavery, which means slaves were brought from Africa to America. But there is no mention of the slavery that Muslims have been guilty of for centuries, of which white Europeans or blacks have been victims. Why is that? How come left-wing people are always interested in one form of slavery?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u27	I think it is a good thing that we look at our history in its full breadth and that we pay attention to all the elements. We call for attention to be paid to this in the House of Representatives. Municipalities are also working on this, including the municipality of Amsterdam. I think it is very good that we highlight various aspects and that each institution chooses its own choice and approach. I am therefore in favour of the broadest possible attention to parts of our own history.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u28	No, that's not your party at all, because your party is only interested in one form of slavery. If you say that it is all facets of history, you must also take with you that all kinds of Dutch people have been robbed. Michiel de Ruyter fought against the Muslim lavs. The Dutch army, I believe, went to Algeria in 1830 to clean up such a slavery nest. But left-wing people are never interested in that. That's a form of slavery they don't find interesting. Shall I help you with an answer then? I think I understand left-wing people. You're only interested in slavery if you can put Europeans on the suspect's bench. If Muslims are the culprits, you don't want to talk about it. You're not interested in slavery. You are simply concerned with the ideals of the Netherlands on the left, the ideals of May 1968. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u29	I'm repeating myself, Mr. Chairman. I am concerned that we should not close our eyes to unpleasant pages from our own history either. We've been doing that too much for years. It is good that we open our eyes to this and that we have an eye for all aspects of our history, including the past of slavery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u30	No, Mr. Bosman, you're not getting the floor. We're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u31	Can I just say something for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u32	No, we're doing interrupts in half. Please continue your speech, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u33	Mr. Chairman. As I indicated, heritage helps us reflect on who we are. My question was to also pay attention to the relationship between heritage and diversity. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the transformation of the tax regime into a subsidy scheme. It is a good thing that the abolition of tax deductions, unlike the previous cabinet's proposal, is not accompanied by austerity. The EUR 57 million that is involved in the current tax deduction remains available for heritage. However, only EUR 40 million per year is available for the new subsidy scheme. The remaining EUR 17 million will be paid into the Grant Scheme conservation monuments. How can the Minister guarantee that the EUR 40 million will be sufficient to accommodate the owners/residents of state monuments in the costly maintenance? Is the Minister going to evaluate this? Is it prepared to look again at the budget if there is a threat of underexhaustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u35	When I was 11, for the first time, I climbed on a dough bed. I was thrilled and already knew that I wanted to be an archaeologist later. Luckily, I'm not the only one. Many Dutch people are very involved in our heritage. Heritage asks us questions and gives us answers. It's a mirror for our society. The SP is pleased that this cabinet is paying extra money for its heritage. A good example to involve residents in heritage is Heerlen. An archaeological excavation for children and adults from the district was organized in an open area in the Lotbroek district, where miners had previously lived. The finds that were made were used in a conversation with the residents about the identity of the popular neighbourhood in the past and in the future. However, here immediately wrings the shoe. These archaeology projects are now mainly in spite of the government and not thanks to them. In 1992, the Netherlands signed a legally binding treaty in Valletta on how to protect and use archaeology. However, an important article of this agreement never entered our law, namely Article 9, which states that each country is committed to involving a broad public in archaeology. In that letter, you say you want to involve more people, but it doesn't say how you want to do it. Are you going to include this article from the Malta Agreement? How are you going to get more money to involve a wide audience? Are you willing to set up a public fund? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has decentralised archaeology, left excavations to the market and introduced self-regulation. The SP is concerned about this and is also concerned about quality and supervision in archaeology. In the 2017 Heritage Review, the Minister notes: "As a result of market forces, the quality of archaeological research may be under pressure." However, in the new programme we do not see any research into this quality, let alone an approach. What's the Minister gonna do? The Heritage Inspection Monitor, which presented yourself in 2018, shows that only 60% of the municipalities have sufficient staff to carry out their duties in the field of archaeology. What are you going to do about this? Archaeologists often earn badly. There are many temporary jobs due to cyclical sensitivity. Is archaeology also part of the action plan to improve the position of workers in the sector? Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister is spending money on monitoring, evaluating and protecting maritime heritage. But is it enough? Will you also provide more research so that special ships and their inventory do not perish twice? In its annual report 2013-2014, the Heritage Inspectorate found that the problems of illegal excavation in underwater archaeology are major. Both in Germany and in England there are concerns about illegal Dutch diving in war graves. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. Heritage also confronts us with black pages from our history. We are concerned about the painful heritage of the Second World War. My colleague Peter Kwint has previously drawn attention to the preservation of the wall of Mussert. Now we would like to draw attention to the Seyss-Inquart bunker. Does the Minister consider the sale by the National Real Estate Company desirable? How does the Minister ensure that a buyer is forced to ensure that the national monument receives a destination that does justice to this heritage? Is it not time for an action programme on heritage and archaeology of the Second World War?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u36	You are the second speaker to bring this up. The VVD has already asked written questions about this before the summer. Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u37	Yeah, but? What can I say about that? This is the first debate we have with the new cabinet on heritage. I think that's a good time. We wanted to take it a little wider. That is why I ask the Minister whether it is not time for a broader plan of action on heritage from the Second World War. Perhaps you know that many finds are not yet under monument guidelines. Just now that a generation is disappearing that has experienced the war itself, we need to find ways to involve children in this period of our history. I think we have a lot of heritage and archaeology for that, so I thought this was a nice debate to draw attention to. Of course it's a good thing you asked questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u38	Thank you. I believe that the D66 colleague had already drawn attention to this. I think there is indeed broad support to investigate this. But I think that sometimes we may be able to raise unnecessary issues in a different way. Then perhaps the answer to those written questions is the right time to refer to it in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u39	Oh. I regret, however, that you call this an unnecessary matter. I have just argued that, just as there are fewer and fewer eyewitnesses to the Second World War, it is important that we pay attention to this heritage and its possible disappearance. I see this wider than, for example, the Wall of Mussert and the bunker of Seyss-Inquart. This is also about other heritage and other archaeological finds. I thought it would be nice to think about how we can come up with a broad approach to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u40	You may say more, because Mrs Bergkamp also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u41	It is perhaps also good to know that the Minister has announced that she will come at the end of this year with a vision piece specifically focused on war heritage. If I listen to the speech of the SP in this way, I think it might also be good to devote a specific AO or debate to it, because I think there is a broad interest in this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u42	Yeah, I think we're gonna find each other. It is indeed not an unnecessary matter. It seems very good to talk about this in an AO and to take it very widely, because too much is still going wrong now. Then I'm not just referring to this sale; I mean it wider too. For example, more attention could be paid to archaeological research into this type of heritage. So I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u43	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u44	Mr. Chairman. My party is also very concerned about the heritage outside the Randstad and outside the cities. Figures from the Restoration Fund show that not even 1% of the money goes to Drenthe, Groningen and Overijssel, while 54% of the subsidy goes to North and South Holland. It is now promised that more attention will be paid to churches in shrinking areas, but heritage is more. Can the Minister undertake to carry out more research into bottlenecks and to come up with an action programme aimed at rural areas? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It is incredibly painful to watch the heritage in my province, Groningen, literally crumble. Up to 90% of the national monuments have been damaged. I think that this issue deserves a separate debate. But today I would like to ask: how will the Minister ensure that the recovery is speeded up? Is the available budget sufficient? Is the subsidy also for earthquake-damaged monuments outside the ten so-called earthquake communities? And can the Minister undertake an update on the implementation of this programme? I see I've stayed in time and there's one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u45	There is another question from Mr Bosma. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u46	SP politicians and SP leaders are trying to destroy a beautiful piece of heritage everywhere, namely our dear Black Piet. You can name a lot of cities, for example Amsterdam, where the SP rules. There Black Piet can no longer be black on the arrival of Saint Nicholas. SP drivers do that in a lot of places. From above our culture is destroyed by a party that claims to be a popular party, but in practice simply dances after the social justice warriors. What the hell do you SPs have against a wonderful folk figure like our precious Black Pete?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u47	I would actually like to say two things about this. The first is: heritage is not static; heritage changes. Not every tradition we've ever had we keep alive. I know that as an archaeologist all too well. I also think it makes sense that we should have some of them! Stop traditions. For example, we stopped sacrificing people in peat. Not all traditions last forever. I'm not gonna make a strict statement about Black Pete. I do think it is important that there is a broad debate on heritage, on the value that we attach to it at the time, on whether it is painful or not, and that it is a good debate. I am not going to decide whether or not it should be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u48	I am glad that the SP has stopped human sacrifice. This all sounds like a lot of fun. It's a bit of the same talk as that of D66 just now: there has to be a discussion; we have to talk about it nicely, whether it's hurtful, blah, blah, blah. But the practice is very different. The practice is that this tradition is destroyed from above by Stalinist SP leaders. The Netherlands loves Black Piet. The Netherlands wants Black Piet black. Black Piet is black and Black Piet remains black. But in Amsterdam, and in many other places where the SP unfortunately rules, Black Piet is destroyed by you, the SP, the party of the people. How is that possible? Then you can't say, "traditions change"? No, traditions are destroyed from above by SP drivers. So if we want to fight for our traditions and our heritage, I think we should fight the SP first. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u49	There were quite a few reproaches and strange caricatures, such as Stalinism. I think the SP is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u50	Well, Stalin was on the front of your magazine until 1976.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u51	The question has been asked. The answer follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u52	If the SP has a nuanced position on something, then it's on these kinds of issues. Then we are not imposing from above. We welcome the fact that heritage is always part of a debate. We cannot simply preserve everything in the same form. We need to keep thinking about how it fits into this time of year. I think that's something you should also find.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u53	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u54	I don't have a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u55	Fine. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u56	Thank you, Mr President. In preparing this debate, I took a walk through Leiden on the Minister's side. The minister didn't know about that yet, but I admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u57	Some kind of "I've been sneaking around with you"!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u58	Well, dancing's a little less on us, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u59	The minister said, "I've been sneaking around with you."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u60	Yeah, I could, but I didn't know anything about that. Mr. Chairman. We walked over the Rapenburg in Leiden and saw that beautiful building at Leiden University. That's a wonderful example of very early re-destination. It was a monastery. In 1575 Willem van Oranje Leiden granted the right to establish a university and the building was put into use by the university. As we walked through Leiden, that city center roared from the activities, from student life. We noticed that a lot of students live in these monumental buildings. Then I thought to myself: I am going to ask the Minister a question about that. How is it possible that those students, who are now driven by the loan system into a financial trap, can live in these magnificent monumental buildings? The Minister's answer will have to be: that is because the owners of these buildings are, among other things, supported by tax for a scheme to maintain that monument. Let's face it, that's very welcome in a time of roomlessness among students. With this tax support, we're going to hit three birds with one stone: we're going to avoid impoverishment of the city center, we're going to enjoy the historical heritage, which remains in good condition, and we're going to provide extra rooms for students. But who amazes me when I read the cabinet's heritage plans? The government wants to continue to abolish this tax deduction. In addition, if I have read it correctly, I would very much like to correct on this point that the alternative subsidy scheme is only for owners who own the property. So I interpreted it in such a way that not only the Leiden landlord but also the landlord of a monumental farm goes fishing next to the net. And then I would like to say nothing about the fact that the new regulation has a ceiling, which can reduce amounts afterwards. Mr. Chairman. The SGP understands the need for austerity on the one hand; on the other hand, there is 325 million extra available on the other, but why should this be achieved by a system change? How does the Minister respond to all kinds of practical experiences from the world of monuments that indicate that the implementation of such a subsidy scheme leads to inequality, uncertainty and unnecessary delay? The SGP attaches importance to a solid basic provision, which can benefit as many citizens as possible. These monuments also have a public function, which benefits the whole community. Walk through an old town and I don't have to explain it anymore. Madam President. The SGP calls for particular attention to be paid to the war heritage. It is tempting to care especially for the gems in history, but we also need to pay attention to heritage that raises awareness of guilt and shame. The Hollandsche Schouwburg in Amsterdam is a well-known example of this. The realization that we have to deal with such places in a particularly careful way does not seem self-evident. I do recall the wall of Mussert, as it is called. I also refer to the bunker in which an Anne Frank escapoma is realized. How is that possible, you wonder? And yet last year that was allowed by the municipality of Valkenswaard in a national monument. I agree with the comments on the Seyss-Inquart bunker. Madam President. I look forward to the Minister's plans to promote a careful handling of our war history, and I would like to hear the state of play in the preparation of the plan. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u61	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, the Open Monument Days attracted more than a million visitors. Heritage counts, the Minister writes, and I say heritage lives. It is a good thing that this cabinet will invest 325 million more in cultural heritage in the coming years. The CDA considers this investment of great importance to preserve valuable monuments, works of art and archives and to make them accessible to future generations. Owners have a crucial position in monument care. Nothing is more important for the preservation of a monument than an owner with passion. For private owners, the tax deduction is a simple and effective scheme. Then why is the Minister proposing a subsidy scheme? Tax deduction gives owners of state monuments certainty about the percentage of maintenance expenses they get back from the Tax Administration. Under the proposed subsidy scheme, that percentage depends on the total number of applications. How can an owner make plans like that? Uncertainty also arises for owners about the eligible costs. The Eligible Maintenance Costs Guidelines are subject to different explanations and thus the outcome will depend on the evaluator's insights. Is there any possibility of consultation and ex-ante scrutiny, such as in the case of tax deductions? The Minister proposes to grant subsidies only to private owners who live in the monument in question. Why does the Minister make that difference compared to the tax deduction? The Minister states that the 57 million euros that the tax deduction cost in 2017 remains fully available for monument care. Then why not put the whole amount into the subsidy scheme? What do the owners who now use the tax deduction to add 17 million to the Sim scheme? The CDA Group is not positive about abolishing the tax deduction. We want to consider these because of the feasibility of the Tax Administration, but only if the following conditions are met. Monument owners who are now entitled to tax deductions will receive subsidies without exception. The amount of the tax deduction, which is EUR 57 million, remains available to monument owners who are now using the tax deduction. There must be no thresholds in the scheme and the pot must not be empty by the end of the year. Mr Laan and I will put these conditions to the Chamber in two motions. In addition, the CDA Group will look very critically at the implementation costs of the subsidy scheme. Nor should the scheme be undressed at a later date. Is the Minister prepared to submit subsequent amendments to the decision, if any, to the Chamber? Furthermore, I refer to the presentation of the Christian Union when it comes to monumental church interiors. I also support GroenLinks' call to pay attention to new monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u63	I now hear a lot of conditions about the deduction of monuments, and I think they are well thought out. But you would actually ask the question: should you want this? When I hear the terms of the CDA, does the CDA actually say that this subsidy scheme cannot be successful, especially for the money that the cabinet has made available in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u64	I have made it very clear in my speech that the CDA is not in favour of a different system for the deduction of monuments. But under certain conditions, we want to consider this in the context of the fact that it may be more workable for the new tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u65	Yes, so the CDA Group is actually against it, but has now set a number of conditions for the cabinet. If the cabinet meets this requirement, the CDA Group may be able to agree to this. My impression is that these conditions together are so many that it never really comes of it. That's not that far from the truth, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u66	In my input, I said what I think. I think you felt that right. It is essential that the conditions are met. If that's the case, we think it should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u67	I still have one question, so I fully understand the contribution of the CDA. I understand that the Minister has done research to arrive at an effective arrangement, because the money has to be spent on monumental parts. Research would show that a considerable amount is being spent on non-monumental parts, such as plumbing, insulation and so on. I wonder if the CDA also believes that this money, which you can only spend once, should be spent on monumental parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u68	That's what we're gonna assume about this deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u69	That's clear. If the Minister's estimate is that you can meet 40 million, would that be a reason for the CDA to agree a little more easily to this arrangement? I do not like saying that we are going to table a motion, because I would like to wait for the Minister's response. But I do agree with the CDA that this should remain part of this scheme for the owners of today, even if they are renting it out for example. If the amount of 40 million is sufficient, can the CDA still weigh to get a little closer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u70	For us, that 57 million is still standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u71	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague Kirsten van den Hul from the PvdA in this debate. Let me say first of all that the Heritage Note which the Cabinet has shown the light of day can, in general, bear the support of the PvdA Group. There is extra investment in cultural heritage, and that is just a good thing, whether it be mills, churches or important cultural heritage in cities or villages. This is an important matter, and it is also heavily funded. I don't want to patronize or scorn about that. The government has taken this seriously, and that is what the PvdA Group supports. That's a good choice. It's important to the country. There are a lot of monuments that still need some maintenance and investment in the coming years. I do have a question about the investments. Where do they mainly end up? Some of my colleagues have already spoken about this. I would like to argue that there should be enough money in the regions, because in almost every village in the Netherlands there are monuments worth investing in. Of course, we also have the Rijksmuseum. We've got some really big things. That's very important. We need to invest heavily in that too. It's a lot of money, too. It's serious money. The cabinet makes a few hundred million available, but it's just as up when you spend it on a few big things. So I would also like to have more insight into and feel more about the distribution between the Netherlands. Is the region getting away from this sufficiently well? In particular, I refer to Groningen. I call on the Minister to take a look in Groningen if she hasn't done so yet. The monuments are in a dramatic state. Mrs Beckerman and I often talk about it with Minister Wiebes, but now that I have the opportunity to talk to the Minister for Culture about it, I do not want to leave it unnamed. It's really tearing and it's ticking on all sides. There's not much to do about it. It's not easy to do those things, either. But it really takes a big investment program. Is the Minister willing to do that? Is that enough in the plans now? There are large sums, but how exactly are they distributed? I think it will take a lot of investment in Groningen in the near future. Is the Minister prepared to draw up a separate programme for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u73	The documents specifically mention an amount for Groningen, don't they? You're aware of that, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u74	Yes, of course, but it is really a question of whether that is enough to solve the problems there. So what exactly can happen? I can tell you there's a monastery church in Ten Boer. There's a church in Bedum. It's a little crooked. He is called the tower of Pisa. There are plenty of mills in that landscape. 10 or 20 million really isn't that terrible. There's got to be a huge sting with the NAM about who's paying. But I'm afraid it's gonna take a lot more than that. That is why I would like to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u75	You're calling attention to it. You then mention the region. Can you tell us what the region is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u76	Yes. Groningen and the head of Drenthe. There's the earthquakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u77	And the rest of the Netherlands is not a region?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u78	I was talking about the earthquakes. No, of course not. Sorry, I thought you were asking about the program in my story, about Groningen, the earthquake damage and the monuments that suffer from it. The region means of course Friesland, Drenthe, Limburg, Zeeland, Gelderland, Overijssel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u79	Brabant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u80	Parts of North Brabant, Chairman. Not Zuid- en Noord-Holland and not Utrecht. That's not the region, that's the Randstad and its surroundings. I don't think what I'm saying here is anything new. Frankly, the CDA and the Christian Union are always on that side. You can see that on other parts of the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the monument deduction. Actually, I think there's only one argument that's really relevant that would make you go to a grant. That's also the only argument the CDA kept. Namely: the Tax Administration is not really made to provide grants for monuments. We didn't set up that service. It's stuck on all kinds of things, too. He's worried about it now. We've arranged a lot of things for tax purposes, but this is kind of clumsy. A lot of other arguments also cited by the government make me a little afraid. There's got to be more control. Reports need to be made, especially if you're making bigger investments. We have a law on monuments, don't we? Anyone who wants to remodel a monument and has done it once, or has visited people before, already knows how difficult this is. Then why does a separate report have to be submitted in the case of a grant application? Why does all this need to be checked? Why should the government define exactly in advance what can or cannot be done? Let me give you a practical example. Mrs Bergkamp spoke just now in an interruption about plumbing, but it is also about heating. Many monuments should not be double glazing, because of their appearance, but they do need substantial investments in heating. When we find those monuments of great value, it is not surprising that you also support the investments that are needed for them. Of course you have to contribute yourself. This is also the case in the current tax deduction. You're jerking off a little, and you have to pay 80% of your own. It's not unreasonable for this to happen. So I find it very oppressive how this is dressed. The cabinet says that the amount of macro remains the same, but that's what I'm an economist from home from... micro never the same. Monument owners are therefore very concerned. This Minister cannot guarantee that anyone who is now entitled to deduct will be able to do so again. The question is really whether you can transform it without extra money, for the people in a village I call Baflo or other villages that provide monuments and otherwise fish behind the net. That would be a bad thing, and it would not be in line with the government's policy to invest extra in the maintenance of monuments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u81	The speech of the PvdA does surprise me, to be honest. During the previous period there was a PvdA Minister who had the same idea: converting taxation into a subsidy scheme, with a cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u82	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u83	So now I'd expect the PvdA to be happy. There will be a subsidy scheme, while the austerity is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u84	Yes, that is what the Minister proposed and then the PvdA Group said: that is not how we are going to do it. That was not such a pleasant debate in the Chamber either, but the group still thinks the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u85	The PvdA had to be put under enormous pressure in the Chamber debate, so I find it strange. You can also stay a little closer to your input from not even that long ago. So, frankly, I find it a little unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u86	Well, that's wrong. I saw that cabinet proposal myself. In fact, half of them were cut. That's not the way it's done here. The PvdA Group was against it and the cabinet then withdrew that proposal. That's the way it's supposed to be. I would advise you to go against the cabinet once in a while if you disagree with anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u87	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's speaking time. The Minister asked for 15 minutes to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u88	I would like to give the Minister the floor to answer the first-term questions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mrs. Laan-Selship on her maiden speech. We knew each other and then, at the time when we were both aldermen, we were talking about culture among other things. I recognize her sober, clumsy, Rotterdam approach again. I hope that we can still spend a lot of time here together. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for its contribution in the first term. Mrs. Dik-Faber said the Heritage Note Count is a celebration to read. I think that is a great compliment to the staff in my department who wrote to that note, so I will pass on that compliment. I'll do my best to keep bringing in notes that are a party to read. Mrs Geluk said: the Minister says heritage counts, but I say heritage lives. Perhaps that would have been a better title, because heritage indeed lives hugely in the Netherlands. I think we should nurture that. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet considers heritage very important. That is why we invest not only in it: no less than 325 million. In the letters Culture in an open society and Heritage Count together this heritage policy is presented. The emphasis is on the preservation of monuments, sustainability, and I am pleased that some of you have discussed this in more detail, namely the environment in which the heritage is located, and the binding force that the heritage has in our society. Mr. Chairman. I read earlier this year the book War and Turpentine by the Belgian writer Stefan Hertmans. When you read that book, you get a huge visual description of historical buildings, for example from the factories in Flanders, where workers had to work 100 years ago. If you look at those buildings right now, those stories and that history will resurrect. Such a book also shows how important heritage conservation is to continue to connect with where we come from. One of you said very strikingly: perhaps that history was sometimes difficult, but now we know very well what we do not want anymore. A factory like this with these working conditions, we're sure we don't want it anymore. Our history, not only in buildings, but also in our landscapes, is still readable. The stories that are told are part of our collective memories. It's important to cherish those memories. We can actually make better use of this binding force of heritage. Heritage is valuable to everyone in the Netherlands. It is important that as many people as possible experience the heritage from an early age and are involved in it. Mr Nijboer asked: does this not only apply to the Randstad, but also to the region? Yeah, that goes for everyone. Every region, province and municipality of this country should be able to enjoy that heritage and embrace its history. The investments we make show that we are investing in Groningen and I will come back to this later in a church in Nijmegen, in mills in Zeeland, in a church in Oss. We now have a list of at least 100 buildings for next year and that really covers the whole region. We have a huge wealth of heritage in our country, above and below ground. I will be speaking later on, following a question from Mrs Beckerman, about archaeology, including underwater archaeology. It is also very important. But our intangible heritage, too, Mrs Dik-Faber referred to it as part of it, and she said it was very striking that it should also be kept alive. For example, it is very nice to stamp in the Staphorster costume. That's what we, the Netherlands, stood with this year at the design fair in Milan, where new designers use that art to make things. The Zomercarnival in Rotterdam is also such a beautiful example of intangible heritage, where many cultures come together. And look at the Elfstedentocht, for example. Dutch intangible heritage, which was recently given a whole new dimension thanks to Maarten van der Weijden. It is very important that we also keep that intangible heritage alive. Mr. Chairman. We have thousands of farms that tell the history of our country. Churches, mills, castles and historic houses give colour and depth to our villages and cities. I believe it was Mr Bishop who said that that history is really told when you walk through such a village or city. We also have a very nice tradition in the mobile heritage: special train sets, boats, planes and cars that are kept mobile with the help of many volunteers. I will say something to Mrs Laan-Geselschap about voluntary policy in the general sense, but we certainly also pay attention to the volunteers who keep that mobile heritage mobile and really maintain it well. September is a special month for Dutch heritage. This month, the Cultural Heritage Agency issued 100 million grant decisions for the maintenance of monuments throughout the country, for example at Castle de Haar and the Berlage Stock Exchange. Those are big monuments and they can go forward six years with their maintenance. Thirty monuments have now received a subsidy for restoration from the government agreement funds. For example, this will restore part of the Waterloopbos in Flevoland, but also the barracks in Grave, castle Groot Bijstervelt in Oirschot and some farms. This also applies to the Duyschot organ in the Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam, dating from 1702. It is important that these projects focus on sustainability and that socio-cultural functions are also given scope. In an earlier debate, this was a question on the part of the Labour Party and D66, or on the part of restoration and re-destination that socio-cultural function can continue to pay attention. Yeah, you can. Mrs Bergkamp also had a question about this sustainability. She asked me: do you want to look at the bottlenecks that may still exist around sustainability, for example in municipalities? Yeah, I'd like to take stock of that. Because sometimes it is also a complex task. We are also, together with the Cultural Heritage Agency and the Province of Groningen, busy preserving monuments in the earthquake area. We have set up a special approach, which is really different from the approach to non-monumental homes and buildings, also in close consultation with residents. Owners can get away with that approach. It is important, for example, that you ensure that monuments are in such a good condition that they can survive as the earth trembles. So it's really about making sure they're very well maintained. 17 million is now available for this. Mr Nijboer asked if that was enough. We do not yet have a view on the exhaustion of these resources, so we can get out of our way with this 17 million for the time being. And of course, if there comes a time when we say that there really needs to be more around those monuments, then I'm going to look again at what I can do. At the moment, however, there is no indication of the exhaustion of these resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u90	This subsidy scheme is only available for ten earthquake communities, while we know that there are also national monuments with earthquake damage outside those ten municipalities. Does the Minister still believe that these ten municipalities should be the only ones involved, or does the Minister also wish to make this grant available to monuments in other municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u91	We now have the arrangement for these ten municipalities, because we have actually made the administrative agreement in the North that we are doing it with those ten municipalities. Of course, in other municipalities the normal arrangements for the maintenance and restoration of monuments as we have them apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u92	I find that very painful, because the Minister is right to acknowledge that the State has helped to damage our monuments, which really are the souls of Groningen. The State acknowledges that guilt, but then says: we are only going to do it in ten municipalities. While we know that the State also damages national monuments in other municipalities. Those arrangements are simply inadequate. That's why the minister invests extra in ten municipalities. But I think that's really too limited. I just don't get it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u93	We have now chosen to make this specific scheme available to these municipalities. That has also been done in good consultation with the North. For the other municipalities, of course, the normal approach is the one we have with monuments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u94	I think it's a little weird that ten municipalities are appointed. It's like an earthquake is sticking to municipal boundaries. That is actually what the Minister for Economic Affairs came back from. He said: if there is damage, regardless of the municipality, it must be compensated. That should apply to monuments, shouldn't it? So such an arrangement should not really concern itself with municipal boundaries, but have the basis in earthquake damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u95	I think we should take two things apart here. That's damage recovery on the one hand. The normal arrangements apply, as the NAM pays for. The arrangement we have made for this 17 million is precisely about the strengthening of monuments, so that they can, to say the least, take a hit. Of these, the agreement is now that these ten municipalities are covered. That's what we're gonna do. This does not mean that the damage will not be repaired in those other municipalities. You really need to take these things apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u96	I know exactly what that is about, but it is often the case that if there is damage, there is also need for reinforcement. As it seems now, reinforcement is not only needed in those ten municipalities, but it depends on the building, the type of land and I don't know what else. Mr President, I actually came here for another question. Why has so little use been made of the budget? When I look in Groningen, I see numerous monuments that can use reinforcements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u97	We can simply apply for it, but we must get an application from the owner to make sure that we can get started there. Then a plan must also be made. The money is available, we can work with it, but there must be an application. I don't think there's anything on our side that can't be done at a fast pace. As far as I am concerned, we can get to work on it as soon as possible, but we must have the applications first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u98	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u99	Mr. Chairman. We started the process around the Erfgoed Telt memo by speaking with as many parties as possible. As I said, heritage is in this country from and for everyone. That's why it's great that so many people have spoken in round tables and in panel discussions and shared their views with us. Organisations like the Federation Conservation Monuments, De Hollandsche Molen, Heemschut, the Department of Restoration, all have made their voice heard. I also hope that they will see that voice in the note. Of course, I have also received their vision of heritage from municipalities and provinces. This has also been taken into account. Recently, the Network Support Points Cultural Heritage has also informed me to be enthusiastic about the plans and to participate in their elaboration. As Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet said, heritage lives. I am very pleased that a lot of you pointed out the importance of the hundreds of thousands of volunteers who are active in keeping monuments open, telling their story, showing visitors around and managing and maintaining cultural landscapes and archaeological sites. Some of you have asked if we are going to do some extras for those volunteers. From the organisations and groups of volunteers we understood that they mainly need material support and professionalisation, so that they can do their job even better. Through regional heritage houses we start working with some kind of flying keeps to ensure that volunteers can get the support they need. We are going to support them in professionalisation and we are also going to create a volunteer prize. Of course, I say to Mrs Laan-Selschap, volunteers working in the mobile heritage can also benefit from this, because they also do this important work. So, yeah, we're gonna give extra support to volunteers. For example, the expansion from the Sim from 50% to 60% could increase the scope for organisations to support their volunteers well. It would also be very good if that were to happen. The financial support of the Empire and other governments is at least double the own financial effort of all the owners of monuments, and with result, because our historic towns and villages are very well placed. Almost 90% of the monuments are in good condition and our heritage attracts visitors from home and abroad. That is where the Netherlands is really at the forefront in Europe. I have also had a number of studies carried out, for example on the financial system for national monuments. It appears that the current system is working well, but that there are bottlenecks in the long-term conservation of large monuments and in owners who are increasingly struggling to earn their own share. This often involves important iconic buildings. Hence increasing the fee in the Sim from 50% to 60%, but also working with a current account. If you want to restore a very large iconic building and you start it once, you have to have the long-term assurance that you can go through. For example, the Grote Kerk here in The Hague could be such a historic building where that can provide a solution. The Environment and Infrastructure Council and the Culture Council together gave an important opinion on our system. The core of this opinion is that heritage has a broad social significance, that many things are going well, but that the field itself can become more active and respond more to the new challenge. Major transitions are coming towards us in areas such as climate and sustainability. Mrs Bergkamp asked for that. And yes, so we're going to take stock of the bottlenecks, but we're also going to have a lot of trouble when it comes to re-destination. I should also like to speak in a moment about the vision of the Church that we are trying to shape in that context. For example, through a heritage deal, the cabinet wants to strengthen the contribution of heritage to the changes in the living environment. In doing so, we want to promote new practices and connections between designers and heritage. In many areas, in landscapes where new design assignments lie, you should immediately consider how this new task can play a role in preserving and improving the function of that heritage. A very good example of this is the re-destination of the old Stork factory, which now houses the ROC of Twente. This has produced a very good result through a joint effort. This preserves important industrial heritage, but also the ROC of Twente is now in a fantastic building. This is the result of meeting a spatial challenge and a different societal question. More attention should also be paid to the social significance of our heritage. We are therefore also working on the Faro Convention to better appreciate and use the opinions and knowledge of directly involved people, residents of a city or village, in dealing with the heritage. This involvement is very important and, of course, I shall be speaking about this shortly. The conversion of the tax deduction to the subsidy scheme is an important pillar in this note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u100	Minister, a lot of specific questions have been asked. Can I ask you to answer the questions on the part of the Chamber, even a little in view of the time? I'm sure you still have a lot of generalities, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u101	I was just browsing it. I think I've already answered a lot of those questions. Let me do it this way: I will answer a number of specific questions about the binding power of heritage, about the conservation of monuments and about the deduction of monuments. Finally, I will answer a number of questions on individual subjects. In those cubes I will try to keep the order of speakers as much as possible. Mrs Bergkamp had a question about the Colonies of Mercy. That's what we're working on. Under the chairmanship of the province of Drenthe, the Flemish-Dutch steering committee is now working on the adaptation of the nomination dossier. We strive to offer additional protection to the Colonies of Beneficentness through the instruments of the Environment Act. This month, a Dutch-Flemish delegation will review this section at ICOMOS, the permanent advisor of UNESCO. We're on top of adjusting that file so that the success rate for the award of that nomination increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u102	Of course, it's nice news that the minister is on top of it. However, I do get some signals that an additional effort is needed for protection, in particular the planning assurance. I understand that the Environment Act plays a very important role in this, but I would also like to ask the Dutch government to take part in this steering committee to bring this to the fore. For it would be a shame if that nomination did not go through precisely because of things that we can best determine with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u103	We're on top of that. I also have close contact with the province of Drenthe, which is its chairman. I assure you that we will also look closely at the planning aspects. We'll do everything we can to make sure we get the list in the next round. We're very busy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u104	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister at some point inform us about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u105	As soon as there is news, we will report on its progress. Of course we will let you know if there is anything new to report on this dossier, because I think that will be welcomed with great joy in many places in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u106	Do you have any time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u107	No, I don't have a target time right now. That depends on when the nominations are discussed again, but as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u108	Okay, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u109	Mrs Bergkamp also asked if I am prepared to discuss with UNESCO how to deal with disputed heritage. The answer to that is a definite yes. We are already discussing this issue in several places, and this is also being discussed in various UNESCO contexts. Our national UNESCO committee is also working very actively on this issue. The Knowledge Centre Immaterial Heritage Netherlands has a knowledge agenda, of which controversial heritage is a special programme line. It has discussions on this issue in several places. The theme of loaded heritage is also at the heart of the European Heritage Year this month. On September 20th an expert meeting will take place in the Dutch Open Air Museum around this theme. So, yes, there's plenty of talk about that. Mrs Dik-Faber asked what opportunities I see to keep the Frisian language alive. The Frisian has an official status as our second state language. Frisian citizens also have the right to use their own language. That's a very good tool to keep that alive. That's all regulated by the law. The Empire and the province of Friesland have a joint responsibility and duty of care for the Frisian language and culture. Through a board agreement, we jointly shape that responsibility. That board meeting ends in 2018. New agreements for the period 2019-2023 are currently under way. There is also a delta plan about the Frisian language, which the province of Friesland gives full support to. I warmly welcome that. But we are very much in the process of putting this into practice in new administrative arrangements. In addition to the questions about the volunteers, Mrs Dik-Faber had a question about the right to challenge. It is very important for citizens to be able to put their own ideas into practice when it comes to re-destination. That does indeed play very often at re-destination. You can already see that around empty churches. There really are communities formed that are trying to ensure that that church retains a socio-cultural function there. In the context of research into the ratification of the Faro Convention, we are also organising pilot gardens, identifying projects in which we can promote heritage participation. We'll also see if we can do that with a right to challenge. That is a very nice way to involve residents in re-destinations in their own environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u110	It's good to hear the Minister's work on a right-to-challenge so quickly. My question concerns the previous point. I understand there will be an administrative agreement with the province of Friesland about the Friesland. Will the Chamber be informed about this? Is education also part of that agreement, for example? I'm getting signals from the province that basically education is also involved in teaching the Frisian, but that it's not feasible everywhere anymore and that it doesn't happen everywhere anymore. Are those things I have to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u111	In my opinion, the administrative agreement also deals with education. The new administrative agreement is still in the pipeline, so I cannot tell you what exactly is going to be in it. Home Affairs is the first responsible department for this, but at least we will ensure that the Chamber is informed about that meeting. Mr. Chairman. Then the block on the conservation of monuments. Mrs Bergkamp referred to House ten Bosch, where that is an issue. That is not only there, but also in many other places. Sustainability measures may indeed be at odds with cultural historical values, but this sustainability is also important for the conservation of monuments and, for example, their habitability or exploitation. It is therefore, on the one hand, sustainable and, on the other hand, paying attention to the specific value of a monument. I can imagine that the owners of monuments sometimes feel hindered in their ambition to make them more sustainable. The Cultural Heritage Agency therefore develops guidelines together with the cultural field so that we can make valuable buildings sustainable and re-use them with regard to their heritage value. This also makes it clear to everyone what can and can't be done and how you do it in a good way. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the church visions. With the resources available, we are now working with six municipalities: Súdwest-Fryslân, Ooststelwerf, Zaanstad, Amersfoort, Rotterdam and Oss. That's nicely spread out in the country. In addition, there are municipalities that are already developing a church vision. For example, I myself visited Kerkrade, where such a vision is being developed for Kerkrade-West to see which churches are to be maintained, which can be demolished and which can be reused. It is a question of involving all those involved in the Church's visions at an early stage so that the visions are borne. For example, initiatives such as Under de Toer ensure that stories of residents can be told in an artistic way, so that there is more support. But that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u112	Will you immediately take the interiors and the Walloon church with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u113	Yeah, I'll get to that, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how municipalities and church owners are informed about the use of additional resources. This is done through the VNG, the IPO, FIM, the Great Church Consultation and the Commission on Church buildings. We do that along all kinds of channels. In this context, Mrs Bergkamp had another question about informing the owners of the Sim. Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. That is planned for 2020. Mrs Dik-Faber did indeed have a large number of questions about the interior of churches. She asked if that would get a place in the church visions and if I'd like to take that with me. Interiors are an integral part of the Church's visions. The importance of the interiors will really be addressed in discussions with municipalities and other stakeholders. That's where you can be reassured. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about the possibility of financing the restoration and preservation of interior parts not covered by the financing of monuments. Real estate interior parts that are part of the national monument, such as organs or pulpits, are eligible. It is therefore possible to grant a subsidy for this purpose. Moving objects of the interior ensemble are not eligible and are not protected. These can be alienated from the ensemble. This creates the risk that objects that we would otherwise have subsidised will disappear. A trade-off was made at the time. It is so difficult to keep an eye on the movable elements and to ensure that they are really preserved there, that the risk of subsidy was found too high. We do, of course, make lists of valuable interiors and what you should be aware of if you want to maintain such an interior. We do spread the knowledge about this so that people can know what is or is not valuable in such an interior. Regardless of whether or not you control that those things do not disappear, designation of them in re-destination could be a major problem. If you have to keep all the movable parts in place when re-voting monuments, it will be very difficult to find a suitable destination for that. A choice has been made. But we do promote knowledge of this. A question has also been asked about the top ensembles. We'll put it on the display list, as it's formally called. This is the way we promote knowledge about it. We can see that this approach is working well and that the support is growing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u114	Mrs Dik-Faber has a question about this, but she comes from the back of the room. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been running really hard. I'm still getting signals from the field that churches are being redesigned where there is insufficient attention to the interior. Indeed, the display list is also mentioned, but it is not sufficiently known and has too little impact. Now, with an amendment to the Heritage Act tabled by the Labour Party and co-signed by me, the Minister has been given the opportunity to designate top ensembles. And from the field the call is real: Minister, do so, because it would help so much to handle the interior carefully when re-destined. This does not mean that nothing can be done, because I understand that it is complicated, but it guarantees that care, which unfortunately is too much to look for in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u116	You're gonna have to make a good weight on this one. I know there is that possibility, but there are really limitations to it. We also know that we have major re-destinations. The designation of this is really going to lead to great restrictions in the re-destination. And who's gonna make sure that what's moving really stays there? Because if you subsidise it, you don't want it to go away. That is why we have chosen the line of the display list and the promotion of expertise. I also really see your question as an encouragement to make it even more familiar. We also see that different types of interiors are enthusiastically placed on that list. But it would be too complicated in the task we have now to point out too many of those topensembles. We've made a weighing and wondering what wisdom is, and this is the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u117	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u118	I hear what the Minister says. At the same time: that display list is good, but does not do enough at the moment. There's a book on my table that was published in 2016. I was just talking about it in the interrupting debate with Mrs Laan-Selschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u119	I got it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u120	The Minister has the book, too. There are 100 valuable interiors in there. 5 of those 100 interiors from 2016 are no longer there. They're just not here anymore. I mentioned the example of the Walloon church at the Prinsenhof in Delft. There's a wall going out. The pulpit's coming out. You don't have to do that when you're re-destined. That movable property gets a suitable place, I understand, but not the whole interior needs to be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u121	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u122	So this is an encouragement from me to the Minister: do you want to do something more than just the display list?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u123	But the real estate parts are just part of the national monument. That must be handled with great care. The problem for me is that it's really in the movable parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u124	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u125	Mrs Dik-Faber also had a question about the green monuments. You asked: are there sufficient resources for that? We're now doubling the budget from 5 million to 10 million. Based on the monitoring we have done in recent years within the Sim, this seems to be a real amount of money to meet demand now. We're gonna keep monitoring that, too. If this question should be raised, we will of course look again at that consideration. Mrs Ellemeet asked: can sustainability also be separated from restoration? I know it's complicated to isolate a monument properly when it's still in good condition. Existing schemes therefore focus on support when sustainability interventions can take place at the same time as other construction work. But I am talking to the sector to see if a roadmap can make it more sustainable. This is also happening, among other things, within the framework of the climate agreement. Mrs Beckerman asked me about monitoring the quality of archaeology. We'll follow that closely through the Heritage Monitor. I will also compare reports from before and after the introduction of the Heritage Act. I am also in close contact with the sector to see if we are doing enough with the signals they are receiving and the concerns they are having. I also provide new quality impulses, for example a new programme aimed at the use of new techniques that I am setting up with NWO and the sector. You also asked whether municipalities have sufficient expertise in this area. The fact that some municipalities do not have their own expertise does not mean that they cannot hire them, for example through regional environmental services. This is a very useful way for municipalities to share expertise. It's got my attention. We're talking to the Convent of Municipal Archaeologists about that. The question is also whether this leads to problems in practice. We should not look at whether there are experts, but what is the problem that needs to be solved. I have also mentioned to the Chamber earlier that we are going to deepen some of these cases and then see if there is a problem that calls for a further solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u126	I think I just heard the commitment to report back to the Chamber on this. I would ask the Minister if I have heard that correctly and within what time limit she will do so. I'd still like to tie something to it. We're setting up the Heritage Monitor. You're right to say that. But there are some shocking numbers about how much knowledge is lacking in many municipalities. You say now: yes, but that report is actually wrong, because they do have that knowledge. Then we'll have to report better. But that does scare me. I also know stories where municipalities intervene too late, where builders are still building and where boundaries are stretched. We've been decentralized. That was a political choice. I think the Empire also has a job to do, not only to monitor with reports, but also to take a good look at them. So I hope that I really have that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u127	At the Heritage Monitor, I will report to you on what the concerns are and whether steps should be taken. You also had a question about public participation in archaeology. For the record, the Netherlands has signed the entire Malta Convention. The fact that Article 9 has not been translated into legislation does not mean that we do not consider it important. On the contrary, I believe that there are great opportunities there. That is why, through the Culture Fund, we are also making additional funds available to promote this participation. This allows, for example, the very successful archaeology hotspots, in which volunteers do research themselves, to grow into a nationwide covering structure. You can also see that more and more municipalities have an eye for the value of experience and archaeology and are increasingly doing so. A good example is Leidsche Rijn. So we are doing what we need to do. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to comment on the tax deduction. In my introduction, I said that this month we are giving 100 million in grants to the owners of monuments. The grant decisions shall be subject to a quality check and eligible costs shall be calculated in a uniform and transparent manner. That is precisely what was not secured in the tax deduction: no quality test and no transparency on costs, on whether the costs are actually incurred for the purpose of monument maintenance. We also know that part of the resources from the tax deduction went to non-monumental parts. The main reason to switch from tax deduction to subsidy is to ensure quality for the cabinet and to ensure that subsidies only reach the monumental parts. That can really be secured through that subsidy. I have opted for a system that retains all the current resources of deduction. Again, there will be a test on the quality, only the monumental parts will be subsidised and all financial support for monuments will be done in a uniform and transparent way. This replacement subsidy is the result of many discussions with experts, organisations and private owners of monuments. Our concept scheme, which you have seen, has also served as an example for the province of Groningen. A similar arrangement already exists there. It is also seen there as a simple and quick arrangement. Quality is not just a question of a manual or a directive, with things that need to be ticked off. Quality is also in a conscious attitude of the owners. The Cultural Heritage Agency also has more and more conversations with owners to make them aware of the value of the monument and of the good way to deal with it. The eligible costs guide is then the basis for all grants in monument care, so that we do it in the same way everywhere. Each owner then has the same rights and obligations in dealing with the monuments in a transparent manner. We made this arrangement after discussions with the FIM and the Administrative Platform Erfgoed gemeenten, and after a session with private owners in the municipalities Westerveld, Doesburg, Delft and Zaanstad. This has also been discussed in depth with those involved: how could such a subsidy scheme work for owners? Those parties have also expressed their satisfaction with the adjustments that have been made. On the basis of the new scheme, owners can apply for a grant after they have carried out the maintenance. Owners can therefore themselves assess the eligible costs on the basis of the guidance. The invoices can be sent and within thirteen weeks you will receive 35% subsidy. Only in the case of costs exceeding €70,000 should an architectural inspection report be drawn up. For everything underneath, we're going to check on a sample basis. The atmosphere that Mr Nijboer outlined is thus not mentioned, but at the cost of more than €70,000 you are also really talking about proper interventions, which should usually also be authorised by the municipality. So it makes sense for you to have a structural inspection carried out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u128	I see Mrs Laan-Geselschap standing, but I would actually advise the Minister to finish this block on the subsidy, because many different questions have been asked about it. Otherwise, we will not have other debates tonight. If the Minister has done this block, I will give the Chamber the floor. The Minister continued her speech by answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u129	Yes. I can now say the most about the arrangement. Maybe then I've answered a lot of the questions. The budget remaining in the scheme in any year can be transferred to the following year. That money remains available for the maintenance of monuments. In the case of demand over, the 35% percentage is slightly reduced if necessary, so that each owner can receive a subsidy. And if there was a change in the rules, we will first inform the Chamber of that. There were questions about that. We have chosen to focus the scheme on owner-residents and not on owner-rentors. Why do we do that? Because the Cabinet believes that you provide subsidies mainly in case of market failure. This is actually much less going on with owner-rentors, because the costs can often be taken into account, for example in the rent. A subsidy threshold of €1,000 has been introduced. Our consideration in this respect has been to keep the implementation costs under control. Another choice will obviously lead to more implementation costs. 57 million will be made available from the deduction to the department of OCW. On this basis, a subsidy may be granted. We distribute that money through two schemes, but it is all for the benefit of people who can now also use the deduction. 40 million goes through the grant scheme. 17 million goes through the Sim. Owners of, for example, estates and large monumental farms can also make use of this. Precisely because those owners of large monuments have high costs, the advantage for them is that they are not reimbursed 35% of the costs through the Sim, but 60%. Because we're increasing the Sim from 50% to 60%. So it really benefits them to do it on that route. The 57 million will therefore remain in place for the group that was able to make use of this deduction earlier, but we will do so through two different implementing arrangements, because it will benefit the owners of the major monuments. Recent financial figures show that I can tell you today that the deduction had grown more than we expected. Over the period from 2015 to 2018, the Ministry of Finance expects an additional growth. It's estimated at 5 million. That is why we agreed that 57 million would not be available in structural terms, but 62 million in structural terms. So there's gonna be extra money. You will find those figures in the Millions Note next week. So we are going to use 45 million for the subsidy scheme and another 17 million for the reinforcement of the Sim. More resources will therefore be available for the same group of people. I'll see if I've had any questions about the tax deduction now. Mrs Bergkamp asked where people could go with questions about the new regulation. She is absolutely right: it is important that we inform people properly. We're going to actively provide owners with information. By the way, people can always contact the helpdesk of the National Cultural Heritage Agency. The Tax Administration will also provide information on the new scheme. Since this was first an arrangement of the Tax Administration, we can imagine that people end up there with questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u130	I'm looking at the room. There were two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u131	Before we come to the further questions, it might be good to go into the question of why this does not apply to all the owners of national monuments. In box 3 there are different types of owners. These are also developers who want to invest in a monument and use the deduction to build up assets or pass them on to buyers when selling. The other group consists of owners who rent out or who have purchased it as a second home. The category of developers always concerns new entrants on the market who can also benefit from other schemes. As a newcomer, they actually suffer no disadvantage compared to previous years. In addition, they can find other ways, such as the National Restoration Fund, where they can get a cheap loan. Another group includes people engaged in commercial rentals or, for example, holiday rentals. Once again, the government's consideration has been not to provide support by collective means. A low-interest loan facility is therefore available for all these groups at the National Restoration Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u132	Mr President, I have a number of questions. That's tricky. Shall I put it in a row, since I'm only allowed to respond once? My first question concerns something that the Minister mentioned before you said that I was no longer allowed to interrupt, namely participation. The minister says she's spoken to a lot of people, with a number of federations. We've been able to see that again. But the Minister probably got all those e-mails from people who didn't agree at all, including those who united. Some of these institutions have also responded. Then what did the Minister do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u133	I've spoken to as many organizations as I can. My department did, too. I don't think we've spoken to every private person who sent an e-mail. Again, in the preparation not only through the organisations but also in different municipalities with specific owners have been examined which scheme can work for them. We have spoken as carefully as possible with all parties. The fact that there are still people who would have preferred a different choice is true. But I believe that the cabinet has made this assessment on very good grounds. A large part of the field is behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u134	In any case, there are a lot of organisations that have reached us, and I also assume that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not agree. At least we in the VVD have taken these sounds seriously. You too, I understand, but so do we. My next question concerns the regulation that you are proposing and the people you are excluding from 1 January. That's what you've been weighing up. We, the VVD, do not support this balance at all, because we believe that the scheme should go one-on-one from the tax deduction to the subsidy scheme. The same people who are now eligible should therefore be eligible. During the game, the rules are changed. What is a good argument to say to those people that they are now out of play, that they should go shopping in the ways you have just indicated? What is a decisive argument for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u135	I've just tried to explain that to you. For a large part of the owners there is no market failure at all. They can go to the National Restoration Fund. Sometimes it's just investors who buy a property, restore it and then sell it. You can also charge those costs in the selling price. The cabinet has considered the question of what it is going to grant by collective means. That's where you weigh in. I have also seen very well that not everyone in this country is happy with that, but I do think that we have made a very careful assessment of where support from collective means is at stake and where there is no good alternative. For many of those owners who are not residents, there is a very good alternative through a low interest loan from the National Restoration Fund. That is the balance that we have made. Of course, the Court can make a different assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u136	You had another question on this point. Since I've asked you to wait, you can ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u137	Then the phenomenon of "the threshold." As a VVD, we have indicated that, in this type of discussion and in the introduction of such schemes, the importance of the inhabitants is greater than the importance of the system. Is this threshold and the implementation costs which may be increased for the Minister such a heavy argument that she would not want to remove that threshold? Then it can also apply to people with lower costs. We have made a suggestion for saving costs, for example 800 plus 500 is 1.300. You can file that in one go. Well, that's complicated, too. If such a threshold is simply removed, the implementation costs for the Empire are slightly higher, but for the people we do it is better. Is that something for the Minister to consider after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u138	When you make an arrangement, you always make a balance between the scheme, the question of which people you want to meet and the collection costs, the implementation costs at the Empire. In most cases, the Court is also quite critical of the fact that implementation costs are kept within limits. You can always pull out a threshold like that. I will tell you that this increases implementation costs by 3 to 4 tonnes. These are resources which do not benefit the actual work. So we go from 1.6 million to about 1.9 to 2 million. That's a weighting you need to make. The cabinet has made the weighting as it now becomes in the scheme. But of course, those are always choices you make in the weighting: how do you want to deal with such an arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u139	Finally, Mrs Laan-Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u140	Then the VVD still insists on tabling a motion in a moment, in which these things are raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u141	I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u142	What really justifies a government subsidising private owners when it comes to the maintenance and restoration of monuments? It is a question of private property. The justification for this is that it serves a social interest. That was the justification for the tax regime. But that justification doesn't change if we change the system and go to a subsidy system, does it? Then my question is: why is a part of the owners now excluded from this subsidy scheme? The justification or the motivation to grant that subsidy has previously been done through a tax construction and now through a subsidy scheme has not changed in principle? I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u143	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u144	Yes, but I would like to add one more point. We cannot take this off by saying that we can get it on the market or that we can get a low-interest loan through the Restoration Fund. Interest rates are low now, but we don't know what that will be like in the future. This is a bone in the throat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u145	So you're gonna have to include the interest rate. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u146	The justification of why you spend public money on maintaining private monuments is primarily the collective interest we attach to monuments. This concerns the quality of the monuments. And it was precisely the quality of that maintenance that could not be verified through the Tax Administration. You shouldn't want to do that with the IRS. Moreover, we now know that about a quarter of these substances ended up in non-monumental parts. This was the case with parts which mainly concerned the enlargement of the residential enjoyment. The cabinet has weighed up the fact that we are really going to spend the 57 million that is now available, and there will be another 5 million in the budget, on what that money is intended for, namely investing in the quality of monuments, and supporting private owners in doing so. We also checked to see if there's another way. That's what you always look at when you give subsidies. For example, when it comes to private owners who buy a property and then resell it, there is no market failure but it can be included in the price. There are also possibilities through the National Restoration Fund. So you're weighing that up, and I think it's very good to defend it. We look very closely at whether we need collective means to maintain those beautiful monuments or whether other roads are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u147	At this point, the Minister does not convince me. Nor does it do that with regard to the eligible parts. I imagine you're looking at that critically and you want to check it out. Monumentary care could play an excellent role in this, but that is not the issue in this proposal. It is too narrow to say that only the monumental parts are eligible: it is the complex, it is the whole. It may also have something to do with residential pleasure. I fully appreciate the Minister's commitment to the renewal of monument policy as such. I can imagine. However, I believe that the proposed policy on this point is becoming too weak. I would ask the Minister to look seriously at the details of this later on and see whether there is anything to be thought of from the totality of the monument. That's my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u148	This is not the first discussion we have had today. I think this has been discussed much more often in this Chamber over the past period. Over the past period, there has also been a great deal of research into the question: where are the resources from tax deductions coming from? In monuments, of course, you look at the whole thing, but it was also really about a lot of money. We've done some good research on that. About a quarter of these funds came from deductions that had nothing to do with the maintenance of the monument. This was more about the pleasure of living. Why would you put that in the deduction of the one private person and not in the people who don't live in a monument? There's also a point of justice in it. The quality test that we can do with subsidies has also been an important argument. For us, these have been the two main arguments for achieving this arrangement. I say to you quite frankly: we have also made a number of weightings that your Chamber might have made different. But precisely in view of the principle of deduction in addition to subsidy, there are very good substantive arguments for doing so, which have everything to do with the quality of our monuments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u149	I have a lot of things to stuff in one interruption, so I'm gonna do my best. I agree that it is good to have an effective regime, in which there is simply more control. You can only spend money once. I think it makes sense that you spend it on monumental parts. I am glad that the Minister has also announced that she will add 5 million to that amount. I also think that the distribution between Sim and grant is very logical, given all the calculations. I'd like to add a little to the VVD on the point of excluding groups. That's a story I'm having a hard time with anyway. There is a difference of opinion on the subsidy threshold. But excluding people? The higher goal is to preserve the monument. I do not know whether that measure contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u150	I have indicated to the Chamber what our weighting has been in that. In my view, there are very good alternatives for those groups which are not currently covered by the subsidy scheme, namely the owners, non-residents. There is no market failure. However, I would like to say quite frankly that the Chamber can also make a different weighting. But we have looked very closely at it. If you grant a grant, you want to do it in a good and efficient way. The Ministry of Finance always looks very closely with us to see if we are doing it effectively. I gave you the trade-off the cabinet made. You can also make a different weighting, but we think it is a little less effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u151	The Minister has convinced me with her story about the implementation costs. They're a little higher, but it's not that bad. Frankly, I am not afraid of what has been said about the administrative pressure on the owners. But there are some concerns. The Minister is going to evaluate the scheme. I'd like to ask her if she can do that a little faster. Normally, we really take the time to do so by means of legislation. It often takes a number of years. However, given that there is some inconvenience with regard to a number of issues, I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to carry out a more rapid evaluation of this regulation. She has promised to send it to the Chamber so that the Chamber can find some of it if it changes anything. So can the Minister evaluate this scheme a little more quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u152	I'd be happy to. Since you also had questions about Sim's evaluation, I promised you earlier that we would evaluate it by 2020. It seems logical to me that we should work with this scheme for a year first. Next year would be the first year that people could apply for funding. After such a first year, I think it is a good thing that we evaluate what has happened. If that gives rise to adjustment, I will do so if necessary, not after I have discussed it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u153	I understand the Minister very well if she does not want subsidies to be used for things they are not intended for. We'll agree on that. But the monument deduction is not meant to be some kind of compensation for people who are poor or something. No. It has just become a compensation and has also been, because people who own monuments have to account for how they deal with that property that essentially restricts them in their property rights. That's what that grant was once meant for. It's a right. That's why I don't understand. It's people who own monument buildings, whatever they do with them, whether they rent it out, live in it or inherit it, and what they do is maintain those monuments, so that we can pass them on to the generation that comes next. So I don't get the pay model at all. 'Cause someone who lives in it can just sell his property once he's fixed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u154	Yes, of course. You can always do that. But if you buy a property with the real purpose of selling it or renting it commercially, it's really a different matter than when you live in it yourself. I've given you this or I'm going to repeat to myself what the weighing of the cabinet has been. We have said that there are very good alternatives for these groups and there is no market failure. That's why the weighting is the way it is. I have also indicated that if the Chamber makes a different weighting, I understand it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u155	Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u156	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u157	Agreed. I'm looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u158	Mr. Chairman. I still had a few varia, as often in the end. The bunker of Seyss-Inquart and the memories. It might be a good thing to say that the exploration of the memories will be completed by the end of this year. We'll discuss it with you. The bunker of Seyss-Inquart is already a national monument and the exploration does not affect the selling or not selling. On the wall of Mussert, I made a decision because of the risk that arose there before we had completed the reconnaissance. As far as the bunker is concerned, any owner of a national monument is free to sell that property, so that's possible. That must be done, especially when it comes to a national monument, in a careful way. That is why this is done through a note of principles drawn up with advice and also with the help of the Cultural Heritage Agency, in which the preservation of cultural heritage is central. Within these frameworks, it must be done. In the end, in this case, I believe the Wassenaar City Council will adopt that note of principle, but the Cultural Heritage Agency is involved in this. Again, the broader exploration will come later this year. Mr President, I think I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u159	I know there were questions about the new monuments. I don't know if that point is sufficiently addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u160	There was another question about the monuments from the period of reconstruction. That inventory has been completed and there are state monuments designated. The period we are looking at is that from 1965 to 1985. Because during that period too, of course, there are buildings that have or are going to have monumental value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u161	Then I still have the SP maritime heritage and finally I have a question from the PVV about the anti-Dutch forces that Mr Bosma was worried about. I haven't crossed those two points on my list yet. Furthermore, it is up to everyone to say what else is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u162	Yes, the archaeology. Indeed, Mrs Beckerman had questions about underwater and possible looting taking place there. As far as the North Sea is concerned, we have no reason at the moment to believe that it is really happening on a large scale. Still, I'm gonna put two tracks on it. On the one hand, the awareness that these shipwrecks are there and that it is heritage that needs to be handled carefully. I would also like to promote cooperation with all parties in order to ensure that this heritage is well nurtured. I also think that we should take a harder line against those who willfully destroy that heritage. That is why the excavation ban in the Heritage Act has also been amended. For example, it is possible to actually punish looting of shipwrecks. We are also currently in consultation with the Coast Guard to give more priority to enforcement and looting. Recently, together with the colleague of Defence, I also expressed this message in a letter to sports diving Netherlands. I believe your Chamber received that letter as well. Furthermore, the ratification of the UNESCO Convention is also an important tool for us to raise awareness of shipwrecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u163	On the one hand, this looks like a commitment: a harder line and more conversations at the same time. Next Thursday, the German police will be picking up finds that have been illegally removed from a ship by divers. It is often a painful thing for Germany and England that sports divers in the Netherlands take discoveries out of their war graves, just as we find it painful when that happens in the Java Sea. In fact, in its annual report, the Heritage Inspectorate said that the problems of illegal excavation are serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u164	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u165	The minister said, "I don't have the picture that it's common." I mentioned a number of examples where that does happen. I would like the undertaking that we will be kept informed of this harder line and that we will also be informed about it. I certainly didn't think the letter to the divers was enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u166	I will keep you informed of the follow-up to the talks, of how we continue to do so and whether that really leads to a different approach. Because I do agree with you. We need to be very sharp on that. We have experienced ourselves in the case of the Java Sea how painful that can be and especially how painful that is for the next of kin. This requires awareness and careful handling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u167	I see another question has remained. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u168	Yes, also about maritime heritage. I had asked if it would be enough to pay out money to monitor, value and protect. Is it not also necessary, because some ships are threatened by erosion twice, to invest more in research and sometimes excavation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u169	I think there's an extra investment in underwater archaeology in the Erfgoed letter. I think your question is whether that is enough. We are looking at the means available to us now to see if that is enough. In my view, we can well deal with those questions that are coming to us on this point. But it has our full attention. Mr Bosma had a number of questions. Let us look at the measures taken in the context of historical democratic awareness. In that context, we do two things. These measures aim to make children more familiar with different facets of our history. The canon is leading the way. We will also ensure that all 18-year-olds get the canon in a very modern way. Then, in the context of historical democratic awareness, we allow all young people to visit Parliament. You also had a question about the new slavery museum. The municipality of Amsterdam has declared a call to submit plans to explore a national museum facility for slavery history. That call closes on October 1st. Then an assessment committee will look into it. The content of these plans is not yet known. I also agreed with the municipality of Amsterdam that we would like to be involved when it comes to a national museum facility. For me, this must lead us to what the descendants of our own slavery past consider most desirable in our country. I immediately agree with you that there are terrible examples of slavery elsewhere in the world, but this is about creating a place in our heritage for Dutch descendants of our own slavery past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u170	What a weird, crooked reasoning that is. As far as those people ever came back alive, there are also relatives of Dutch people who have been enslaved by Muslims. Muslims have performed jihadraids for centuries. When you go to Italy, you immediately notice that those villages are high, while it is much smarter to place them by the sea. Why was that? That was because those Muslims came from North Africa. The Barbary pirates were. The Netherlands has suffered a great deal. Dutch ships have been looted for centuries and Dutch people have been enslaved. This is part of our Dutch history. A lot of churches still have slave houses. It was meant to buy back slaves from Muslims. That's our Dutch history. If there is a legitimate concern about slavery, I find it strange that only one form of slavery is highlighted and that is said to be of interest and interest to us and not to others. I can only explain that from an agenda of political correctness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u171	No, not at all. And I think we can agree on one thing: all forms of slavery find you and I, hopefully, reprehensible. The point is that we want to see if there is a specific provision for those Dutch descendants from the Dutch slave trade. That in what our museums do, by the way, there should be broad attention to all kinds of slavery in the world, I fully agree with you. It is a question of giving a place to the demand of a group of Dutch people to recognize their slavery history. In addition, there are many objects in the collection of the Rijksmuseum that remind you of other, rather black passages from world history. I agree with you that it is important to make this visible and to show it. That's what happens on a regular basis. What matters here is that particular place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u172	So because there's one special group that apparently has a right to some kind of special interest, we're about to get a slavery museum that treats only one form of slavery? That's weird. That's selective outrage. A D66 alderman in Amsterdam said that this museum, which is likely to become a national museum and therefore to fall under this minister, should be built from a "black perspective." So D66, at least in Amsterdam, lays a relationship between skin colour and vision, and I think only one group of blacks is looking at, because it is equally well known that many blacks have also been victims of Muslim lavatory. There is also a lot of anti-black racism in Muslim circles. So the reason that this museum is going to confine itself to one form of slavery, which is apparently interesting, is that a special group is asking for it! If it is apparently demand-driven, then surely an investigation should be carried out in the sense of: dear Dutch people, what do you think is important to see in a slavery museum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u173	Thank you, and your specific question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u174	You'd actually have to hold some kind of referendum. Apparently, it's demand-driven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u175	The call of the municipality of Amsterdam is open to anyone who comes up with proposals. What I think is important in this context is that proposals that have been put forward come from a community. I just told you how I see it. I can tell you and I are not going to agree on this very quickly, but I do not think it is appropriate to repeat this endlessly. And again, that call has yet to close. We still have to see what comes out of it. Then we'll talk about that in more detail. I don't think it makes any sense to anticipate that much further now. I have indicated to you how I see it, and I should like to leave it at that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u176	Thank you. I'll take a look around. The VVD's question about the signs has not yet been answered, but perhaps the spokesperson will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u177	Mrs Laan-Geselschap had announced that she would table a motion on this matter. In France, we see that very well. This has happened in a number of places, but we need to look more closely at how to make our beautiful heritage more accessible with signs, so that people can find it. That can be done on roads, but it must also be done in municipalities. That's what the municipality is responsible for. I think that's a good idea, because the more people know how to find all these beautiful places, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u178	Thank you. I'm looking at the MPs. Is there a need for a second term? There is. I'm asking you to keep the second term with some urgency and speed, because we're running pretty out of time. First of all, on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I asked for the debate, it was actually to indicate the importance of heritage. I thought it would be a good idea to have a debate on this once in a while. If you hadn't kept us so tight, it would've ended very badly. So it only indicates that heritage is important and that it is a very broad subject. I therefore welcome this debate and welcome the commitments made by the Minister. I have one motion. The Chamber heard the debate, noting... Apologies, it's a different motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u180	It's okay. Why don't we give a colleague the floor? Oh, it's gonna be okay. It happens to all of us one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u181	Excuse me. Here I go. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that regulations concerning the monumental status of a property still prevent the sustainability of the same property;]] [[believes that a sustainable outcome is good for making our heritage future-proof;]] [[calls on the government to examine, together with municipalities, the bottlenecks encountered in legislation and regulation in the sustainability of monuments;]] [[invites the Government to examine the possibilities for short-term sustainability of restoration or re-destination plans and to inform the Court of Justice of this by spring 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Laan-Geselschap. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u182	I ask whether it is possible, and look at the Registrar, to vote on the motions before us on Thursday. This has to do with the subsequent process of regulation. At least I'd like to report that. Besides, I serve together...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u183	That's what the Chamber is about, so I'll see if there's any objection to that for now. No one objects, so we'll write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u184	Mr. Chairman, nice. Then we took care of that right away. And I am tabling a motion together with the VVD, among other things, to make and tighten up this arrangement on a number of points. For the rest, I think we have a very nice and tidy arrangement, with an extra amount added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u185	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bosma. You had shuffled the order of the first term. Oh, you're right. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap was for you. Do you want me to give you a little more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u186	Well, I don't, but I think it might be nice to the lady.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u187	Yeah, excuse me. I think that's better. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap was before that. That's how we know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u188	Aaah, a gentleman in traffic. Thank you. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De VVD heeft naar aanleiding van het debat dat vandaag heeft plaatsgevonden drie moties.]] I shall begin by tabling a motion on appreciation for restored monuments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas we should be proud of restored heritage;]] [[noting the reluctance to designate national monuments;]] [[considers that more recognition and appreciation for restored is desirable;]] [[calls on the government to raise awareness of restored heritage and to continue the Pieter van Vollenhoven Prize,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u189	Then there's a motion on referrals to heritage. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas heritage can be made more visible in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that, on the occasion of its 125th anniversary, the ANWB presented 24 referral boards indicating UNESCO World Heritage and Special Areas;]] [[believes that local heritage, such as castles and outskirts, can also be described in French;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether this initiative of the ANWB can be further extended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u190	Then there's a motion on the state monument grant scheme. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas private owners of state monuments make an important contribution to the conservation of the Dutch heritage;]] [[Whereas the subsidy scheme should aim to support these people;]] [[noting that a number of improvements can still be made to the draft regulation;]] [[calls on the Government, within the system of the definitive subsidy scheme, to ensure that:]] [[private landowners are not largely affected by the switch to a grant scheme;]] [[no groups of owners who can now use the monument deduction are excluded from the subsidy scheme;]] [[there is no threshold for eligibility;]] [[the financial establishment for public authorities is designed to ensure that recipients of the grant are not faced with new rules of play by mid-year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap, Mr Geluk-Poortvliet, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-255]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u191	Yeah, I kind of like a little decorum, especially to someone who's our party pig today. Mr. Chairman. The Arab slave trade concerned about 14, maybe 15 million blacks enslaved from Africa by Muslims. That lasted from the year 650 until after 1900. The transatlantic slave trade affects about 11 million victims. The Muslim lavender trade of whites, all those Muslim raids that were carried out on the coasts of Europe, is probably 1.5 million people. So that choice is weird. I recommend to the minister the book Christian slaves, Muslim masters by Robert Davis of Ohio State University. That's someone I've been in touch with. On 27 August 1816 the Dutch fleet bombed Algeria, which was part of the Second Barbary War, and the slaves were liberated. Until then, Dutch and many other Europeans were also enslaved by Muslims. Why don't we pay attention to that? Answer: because it is not politically correct. That is why I am tabling this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that, when slavery is addressed in museums, education or campaigns, and when addressing slavery in which the Netherlands played a role, at least so much attention is paid to the slavery past of Muslims in which white Europeans were victims, and to the contemporary slavery that still exists in some Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-256]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u193	Thank you. Then Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering all the questions. We've spent a lot of time thinking about the church interiors. I have to admit that we have not yet reached a complete agreement on this point. The minister says the interiors will be included in the church visions. This may be the case with the six municipalities with which it is in contact. I'm getting signals from the field. I'm also mentioning the Federation Conservation Monuments, who also sent a letter to the Chamber that it didn't. The minister's pointing to the display list. Again the same federation, but also the Catharijneconvent, the expert in this field, says it does not work. What is really needed is the designation of top ensembles. And yes, that is restrictive, but that is also the intention. We want to preserve part of the heritage, the very special, the most special, for future generations. So limited bets, but necessary. In the grant possibilities there is a bottleneck in the large parts that sometimes, sometimes, are not attached to an interior. I mention, for example, the pulpit. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities have started to work or have started to draw up church visions;]] [[noting that the interior of a church is an integral part and that the Minister has the opportunity under the Heritage Act to designate top ensembles;]] [[Whereas, in practice, there is insufficient attention to the preservation of the interior in the event of demolition or re-destination;]] [[Calls on the government to designate top ensembles for monumental churches and to urge municipalities to involve church interiors in the Church's visions to be drawn up;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for the maintenance of large interior components which are not possible under monument financing but which are an integral part of the ensemble,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u196	Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet has the floor, but she is no longer here. Then I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u197	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get right on it, 'cause I've got multiple motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands signed the legally binding Malta Convention in 1992;]] [[noting that Article 9 of this Convention, which provides for the involvement of a broad public in archaeology, is not included in our legislation;]] [[noting that many Dutch people like to be involved in archaeology;]] [[calls on the Government to comply with the Malta Convention and to examine, together with archaeologists and volunteers, how and with proposals to involve a wider public in archaeology and also to examine the desirability of setting up a public fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be an action plan to improve the position of workers in the cultural and creative sectors;]] [[noting that archaeology is very cyclical and that the salaries of many (commercial) archaeologists are low and there are many temporary jobs;]] [[calls on the government to include archaeology in the action plan to improve the position of workers in the cultural and creative sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister has opened a subsidy scheme for national monuments with earthquake damage;]] [[noting that this scheme applies only to national monuments in ten earthquake communities;]] [[noting that there are national monuments with earthquake damage outside these ten municipalities;]] [[calls on the government to include national monuments with earthquake damage outside the ten earthquake communities in the subsidy scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-258]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-259]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-260]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u198	And my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas heritage and archaeology from the Second World War are important for our collective awareness of this period;]] [[noting that World War II heritage is under pressure as happened at the wall of Mussert and now at the bunker of Seyss-Inquart;]] [[calls on the Government to present a coherent vision and action plan for the management, conservation, research and to a broad public of World War II heritage and archaeology,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Geluk-Poortvliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-261]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u199	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u200	Very good. Then we move on to Mr. Bishop, without motion, with emotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u201	Thank you, Mr President. I am indeed standing here without a motion. I signed a few motions because they were in line with what I said. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I don't feel like we've completed that hike through Leiden all together at all points. So that also means that I am going to take another critical look at the proposal and how we are going to vote on it as a group, because, as it now looks like on some substantial parts, it is a deterioration compared to what is now going on. I thought it would be a good idea to give that to the Minister at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u202	I find that interesting to hear, because my group must also consider it. Mr Bishop says that I do not like certain elements of this. Can he take us into it for a while, what exactly are the elements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u203	I am referring, for example, to limiting the target groups. Certain target groups would no longer be able to make use of the subsidy, while they would now be able to make use of the tax regime. And the goal in itself, the motivation and justification of financially supporting owners for the conservation of monuments have not been changed. It serves not only its own purpose, but also its social purpose. In addition, there is too little focus on just the monumental parts, while you have to look at it in its entirety. Then it hits the home enjoyment, and then it comes with an opportunity to get it co-financed. Those are two points that are the only bones in our throats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u204	Thank you. Then I'll look at Mrs. Luck-Poortvliet from the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u205	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her detailed answer to the questions. I also note that it has a heart for culture; it certainly does. However, the CDA Group would like to table another motion to ensure that the owners of monuments will not deteriorate. I'll read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed policy rules restrict the financial support for private owners of state monuments to housing land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use land-use ……]] [[considers that private owners of state monuments using monument deductions should not be allowed to deteriorate;]] [[calls on the Government to allocate the entire amount of the monument deduction (EUR 57 million) for grants to private owners of state monuments who now make use of the tax deduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the House of Luck-Poortvliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-262]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u206	It is an interesting motion, which is actually contrary to the Minister's proposals. You could almost say it's a destructive motion. You could also say that it is a huge addition, but it is quite contrary to the spirit and essence of the proposal. My question is first of all addressed to the questioner: does she agree with me that it would be rather drastic? In fact, I would also like to hear from the Minister in the second term whether she shares my opinion and whether she is going to implement the motion if it is adopted. Because it seems to me that it is quite different from her proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u207	There is indeed a difference of opinion as to how we distribute the 57 million. That's what this motion is about. The Minister has given a very clear answer to the question of how she intends to do that. I'd like it to go to the owners of the monuments at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u208	I understand that, but that is rather fundamentally different from what the Minister wants. There's not a bit of light in there. It's okay; it's okay. It's okay. But I want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u209	That's what we can talk about as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u210	Yeah, we're talking about it now. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u211	Yes. Hence my motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u212	Okay. But you agree with me, that is to say, the CDA colleague agrees with me that it is rather far-reaching and quite contrary to what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u213	I believe that you have now asked this question three times in different forms. I am giving Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet the last opportunity to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u214	I have no answer but what I gave earlier. I'd like to see the landlords don't go backwards. That's what this motion is for. It's probably a clarification of what I said earlier. That is what I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u215	Mrs. Luck indicated a number of conditions. I think out of the four three have been neatly answered and realized. There is still one point left to discuss. I'm really trying to understand Mrs. Luck in that. She says that the 57 million must remain available to the owners of state monuments. Is that right? I think the Minister said that, but you want confirmation of that. Is it true when I say that the 57 million should remain available to the owners of state monuments? Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u216	That's in my motion. We do not want the owners of national monuments to deteriorate and we want the 57 million to be available. That's the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u217	I think that's what the Minister said about the 57 million. She even said we'd add another five million. She has said that it remains available to the owners of state monuments. My question is: if the Minister answers your fourth condition in this way, is the CDA over the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u218	That 57 million must remain available to the owners of state monuments. There's no difference of opinion on that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u219	Mrs Laan-Geselschap has another question on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u220	I have a question for clarification. I have your motion here. You say 57 million for the private owners. The sums released by the Minister for green monuments and outings, are you adding them in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u221	I assume that the Minister has said that the amount will remain available to them as they are now getting through the tax deduction of monuments. My question is whether that amount will be secured for the private owners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u222	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the term of the House of Representatives. I'm looking at the minister. There's a lot of motions. Maybe she wants... Oh, she's gonna answer right away. It's super! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u223	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the Chamber for its second-term contributions. For the sake of time, I will go through the motions quickly. The motion in part No. I leave Mrs Bergkamp's 252 to the House's judgment. I am indeed prepared to look at how we can remove obstacles to sustainability and to inform the Court of Justice of this in spring 2019. By the way, we were already working on the motion of the SGP and the VVD on energy saving, on obstacles to this in the current legislation. So we're taking it wide. The motion by Mrs Laan-Geselschap in part No. 253 is about continuation of the Pieter van Vollenhoven Prize. Mr Van Vollenhoven has done a wonderful job by bringing parties together around re-destination, often also with volunteers. So I think it would be nice to continue with that price. I think he will be very grateful for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u224	Judgement Room, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u225	Yes, judge Room. The motion in part No. 254 by Mrs Laan-Geselschap, is about rolling out the initiative of the ANWB to see if we can get a better signage to e.g. castles and courtyards. I'd be happy to examine that, so I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 255 from Mrs Laan-Geselschap and others ask me to introduce some safeguards into the scheme. I indicated to you in the debate that the cabinet initially made a different assessment. But I would be happy to amend the regulation if the House asks for it in a majority. So I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 256 of Mr Bosma, I would advise you not to be surprised if it was only because not the cabinet decides on the composition of exhibitions but the museums themselves. That is a very good thing in this country. I'd like to keep it that way. Mrs Dik-Faber's motion on item No. 257 deals with the possibility of subsidies for the maintenance of large interior components. We have also exchanged the necessary information. I'm going to discourage this motion, because there are really better methods of maintaining those interiors. I have already indicated that we want to do so through awareness and through the Church visions. This motion is therefore not recommended. The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u226	I'm gonna go back anyway. Is it a very strict question, Mrs. Dik-Faber? 'Cause I'm really looking at time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u227	Mr President, I understand that. In response to my motion, the Minister indicated that she would advise against it because she is committed to awareness and church visions. But if it is now indicated from the width of the field that it is not going well and that more is needed...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u228	That's a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u229	Will the Minister take another look at the motion with those eyes? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u230	I don't deny that things can be done better, but they can be done by the other route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u231	Please continue your argument with the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u232	So I maintain my judgment. Mrs Beckerman's motion to item No. 258 asks us to do justice to the Malta Convention and to see how we can involve more public in archaeology. I'd like to leave that to the Chamber. I believe that it is important to involve the public in archaeology. I would be happy to examine whether this would be useful through a fund. In the motion in part No. 259 by Mrs Beckerman, the government is invited to look into improving the position of workers in the action plan. This is really up to the sector itself. In the other sectors in which we are looking for improvement for workers in the cultural and creative sectors, too, we are following the sectors when they themselves take the initiative to negotiate collectively and come up with proposals. I therefore believe that archaeologists are free to join, but the initiative must first come from the sector itself. The motion in part No. 260 by Mrs Beckerman, on the regime for state monuments in Groningen, we advise against. The subsidy scheme is not intended to repair the damage, as all buildings are eligible for it. This arrangement was made with Groningen. We're gonna start with experiences and then we're gonna evaluate how to proceed. It may also be a question of extending the area, but for now we are maintaining it, because we have only just begun to gain experience. The motion in part No. 261 on heritage and archaeology from the period of the Second World War, I would like to leave it to the House's discretion. We are currently in the process of exploring the state service in this area. On the basis of this reconnaissance, we will look into what needs to be done there. Finally, I come to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet's motion on part No. 262. In my opinion, in the debate, I made it very clear that the 57 million people actually are going to be 62 million, because we have more money available to private owners of monuments. We do this through two schemes, the subsidy scheme and the Sim, in order to meet the owners of large monuments such as estates and large monumental farms, which do not receive 35% but 60% of their costs. But that money remains available. That's how I interpret the motion. The money remains available, but we do it by two ways, because that way we can accommodate owners more and solve bottlenecks in the major monuments. So this motion gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u233	Thank you. I'm looking at the members. Didn't things just lie there? This will put an end to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-21.u234	I understand that there is a need to vote on this on Thursday. That goes for all 11 motions, I suppose. Then we are going to do so, because there is no objection to that.
