ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is Mrs J. van Leeuwen's commemoration. I ask the Members to stand up. On 1 August last, Hannie van Leeuwen, former senator for the CDA, died at the age of 92. She was a member of the First Chamber from 13 June 1995 to 12 June 2007. Johanna van Leeuwen is born on 18 January 1926 in Delft. After elementary school, she goes to the mulo. After graduation, she's gonna help out at home in the household. In the meantime, World War II has broken out. During the war, in 1941, she became a member of the Anti-Revolutionary Party. If the military espionage group "Albrecht Hollands Glorie" is looking for a courier, her father, who has been active in the resistance since the beginning of the war, wants to use Hannie. Later she says about that moment: "It didn't occur to me to refuse: my mother joined, my brothers, the whole family. But I was afraid." After the liberation, she's going to live on her own. She works as a translator at the Bureau of National Security in The Hague. After a year, in 1946, she became chief of the advertising department of the Royal Netherlands Gist and Spiritus Factory in Delft. Six years later, she joined the Ministry of Economic Affairs. When she passed the evening social work course in 1955, she became head of the department of Special Social Work at the municipality of Rijswijk. Seven years later, Mrs Van Leeuwen becomes head of information at the Dutch Christian Boeren- en Tuindersbond. Hannie van Leeuwen's political career begins on 15 November 1966 when she becomes a member of the Second Chamber of the ARP, the Anti-Revolutionary Party. Her name is "the progressive girl of the ARP." She's a social security spokesperson. Later, as a defence spokesperson, she is in favour of the purchase of F-16 devices. That, along with the sprints to the interrupting microphone, gives her the nickname "Radio Hunter Hannie," a name she has always remained proud of. Hannie van Leeuwen will remain a member of the House of Representatives until 1978. She then accepts a position in the business community. In the meantime, she was also city council member in Zoetermeer for the ARP from 1970. From 1986 to 1990 she is CDA-alderman Economic Affairs, Employment, Social Services and Public Health in that municipality. In 1990 she left active politics. She holds acting mayorships in Hazerswoude and Nootdorp for ten years, from 1991 to 2001, chairman of the Regional Board of Employment The Hague/Delft. The farewell to politics does not appear to be final. On 13 June 1995, Ms Van Leeuwen will be sworn in as a member of the Upper House. She's gonna be a member of three terms. She is Vice-President of the CDA Group and Chairman of the Permanent Committee for Health, Welfare and Sport. As in the Lower House, she becomes social security spokesperson. She is most well known in this Chamber due to her debates in 2005 with Minister Hoogervorst of VWS on the reform of the healthcare system. I can still draw on my own memory by saying that Hannie van Leeuwen registered for 50-minute speaking time. Hoogervorst Health Insurance Act can only make it with support from the CDA Group. In the run-up to the plenary session, she has great hesitations. To fellow party members she says: "I want as much as possible and preferably everything... and otherwise I will vote against." In the course of the debate, the Minister finally addresses the most important points of concern: "uninsured', "care allowance', "free choice of doctors', "health insurance as a social enterprise' and "insured' patients' influence. She can vote in favour. The treatment of this law characterizes Hannie van Leeuwen's way of working. She spends a lot of time preparing and is fully read. There's no detail that escapes her. She uses an extensive network to gather information and she seeks allies. She doesn't leave anything to chance. She is particularly proficient in getting commitments released during the debate. She does politics like one of her biggest hobbies: like a puzzler. The Health Insurance Act is like a very detailed puzzle of 5,000 pieces. It takes you a little longer, but in the end every piece falls into place. At her farewell in 2007 she is 81 years old. Mrs Van Leeuwen gives all employees of the Chamber a geranium, because she herself "does not want to sit behind the geraniums," according to the accompanying note. That is not in line with expectations either. In addition to her political and social career, she has been active throughout her life in dozens of secondary positions, especially in the areas of care, the elderly and labour. Her explanation for this: "That everyone in addition to his paid job should participate on a voluntary basis in the design of society, in the service of the Kingdom of God, that is just your Christian mission." Even if she is no longer a representative of the people, she remains active in the CDA, including as a member of the central government. In 2010 she made a speech at the party congress about the CDA's government participation in the Rutte I cabinet. She has great difficulty with that, but contributes to maintaining the unity of her party with the words: "People, I am voting against today, but I am not running away." In 1973, Mrs Van Leeuwen received her first royal award. She is appointed Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau. In 1978, the second Knight in the Order of the Dutch Lion followed, and in 1994 the third: Commander in the Order of the Orange-Nassau. She also received several other awards, including the Resistance Memorial Cross, the Major Bosshardt Prize and the MAX Award for her commitment to the well-being of the elderly. At the Vrije Universiteit a chair of patient participation was named after her. In an interview she says she is most proud of "the Olive," the award she received from the Foundation Olive, a network of and for women with gynecological cancer, which she led for twelve years. In 2005, when Hannie van Leeuwen is active in society and politics for 65 years, former senators Ria Jaarsma and Elske ter Veld make a booklet. They describe how in every meeting Hannie van Leeuwen "with disarming simplicity, without prejudice and with sincere interest" manages to bridge a possible gap with three simple words: "Say Hannie." In her long social and political life, Hannie Van Leeuwen always kept in mind "that you are there to mean something to others." Many of us have experienced that she has faithfully and with conviction kept that promise. May our respect for her person and her exceptional merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-4.u2	Thank you.
