ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	We will continue with oral Question Time. We begin with Mr Van Dam's question on behalf of the CDA to the Minister for Legal Protection about the fact that data from tennis players and footballers are being resold. I call Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, at least I was shocked by the report that sports associations such as the KNVB and the tennis association, without the consent of individual members, share personal data of those members with commercial parties. This leads to individual members being called by the State lottery or by providers of sports attributes or sports clothing. The KNVB appears to have shared data of 275,000 members with third parties for telemarketing activities this year. I am beginning to understand more and more what has been going on in my private mailbox, with my two soccer daughters, because I also got all kinds of emails with offers for football clothes, tickets for competitions and other things. The CDA can understand that sports federations are looking for other ways to raise money. There is nothing against that, but not in this way. The law is actually very simple about it: if you want to do this, you have to ask individual members for permission. So that's personal to all those individual members. That didn't happen here. Mr. Chairman. That raises questions. How is it that such large sports federations with so many members have failed? That is also my question to the Minister. Indeed, every goat breeding association in the Netherlands has disclosed to its members what information was available and what such an association would do with that information. Sometimes it made us all hearndol. This also applies to the underlying football and tennis associations. They were often volunteers who have done a lot of work to carry out the GDPR, to find out now that at national level the unions drive a crooked skate. These unions then say: we have been advised by all kinds of experts. My question to the Minister is: what went wrong with the information from the Ministry? To what extent has the Minister invested in organisations like this with many members to ensure that this law is properly implemented? What lessons does the Minister draw from this message? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Van Dam is quite right that the law is clear when it comes to the consent required for the use of personal data for purposes other than just running your union or your sports club. There can be no misunderstanding about that. The law is clear about that. All the information we have provided, in particular the Dutch Data Protection Authority, is also ready. But this information has not yet been given automatically that organisations, large and small, then also respond to it and follow it up. I, like Mr Van Dam, took note yesterday of an investigation initiated by the Dutch Data Protection Authority, not towards the KNVB but towards the national tennis association. I know that the Personal Data Authority is very keen on this kind of thing. Then you can ask: what went wrong? To be honest, I think that is a question that may be premature on the one hand. I think it is important that the Personal Data Authority first investigates exactly what has happened here. But if something has gone wrong, I think that this question should mainly be put to these big sports associations, because I do not think it has been a matter of law or law education. Should there be enforcement action by the Personal Data Authority, you could also say that the new law and the additional powers of the Personal Data Authority show precisely that the new legal framework works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	I hear the Minister say that it was not information. I almost hear the suggestion that I should not ask the Minister about this but those sports unions. Unfortunately, however, the essence of my office means that I control the Minister and not the sports unions. I have here in my hands a motion from the Member Koopmans of 8 March 2018. It has been discussed in the proceedings of the GDPR in the Chamber. A motion has been tabled by a wide bay to Members of Parliament to report on the introduction of the law after six months, including these aspects. I believe that there was also a great deal of support for the votes at the time. Mr. Koopmans is coming in now, and I'm sure he'll be able to confirm that non-verbally. This motion refers to all kinds of things, including, for example, the processing of data by smaller organisations. Sports associations are also mentioned. With a little good will you can also get other, larger sports domes from the points put forward. I have not yet seen any reports to date, while I believe that the GDPR entered into force on 25 May. My question to the Minister is: what is the status of this progress report and can we also read in that progress report how the law is being implemented, including the efforts of the Personal Data Authority, precisely to this type of organisation? Because that gives us as a Chamber the opportunity to exercise that control. We talked at the time about whether after six months it is not a bit fast, but then it was precisely the idea: that law means a lot to individual Dutch people, but also to associations and a lot of voluntary organizations. They are also explicitly appointed in this motion. That is precisely why we have asked for reports to be made after six months. Could the Minister explain why I did get an e-mail from the KNVB and not an e-mail from him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	I think I can please Mr Van Dam. We agreed to look at the first six months after the law came into force. It went into effect at the end of May. That's just six months ago. Then we need to look back and also have time to put that properly on paper. So you can expect that shortly after the turn of the year. But one of those elements is that, unlike in the past, individual citizens can now submit complaints to the Personal Data Authority about bodies that, for example, sell personal data to commercial parties without explicit permission. That requirement is not new. It also applied under the Personal Data Protection Act. What's new is that it can now be complained about. So I think it is right that the Personal Data Authority should also be as broad as it is and say: if something is really going on here, then we will intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Yes, you were ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	No, but... I'm going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-3.u9	That's good. Thank you, Mr. Van Dam.
