ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Laçin, on behalf of the SP Group, for his question to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management, whom I warmly welcome. The question is about possible dirty practices of shipping, at least that is what the article is called. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	I call it criminal behavior: large chemical tankers that sail to the sea to discharge chemical crap into our environment and then sail back to their docks. Chemical crap, of which we often do not even know the consequences for our health and our environment. It is a big cesspool in the Netherlands. Companies are dumping their waste without processing it and thus increasing their profits while you, President, or my neighbor can get a big fine if they put their waste on the street just a little too early. But this cabinet also looks away when it comes to prosecuting large companies. In fact, they will soon be rewarded with a reduction in their taxes. My first question to this Secretary of State is whether she also considers the behaviour of these companies to be criminal and whether she agrees with the SP that this should be dealt with vigorously. The inability of the government continues. In fact, it goes so far that she sits on her hands while our environment is being ruined. Once again, I note that this cabinet is not the greenest cabinet ever. Impossible. But I'm going one step further. An official of the Ministry of IenW acted as a witness in several criminal proceedings against illegally discharged shipping companies. As a witness to help these shipping companies avoid their punishment. That's what you're hearing, Mr. Chairman. With the permission of the Ministry, this official acted as a witness. She stands by name in De Telegraaf last Saturday and defends her performance in the courtroom by which those shipping companies were acquitted. Who makes these choices? How can it be that our ministry is helping to avoid punishment for criminal behavior? Can this Secretary of State make this stop today and never happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chemical crap discharged off the Dutch coast: I understand Mr Laçin's concerns. I think that many Dutch people, who were indeed at the beach yesterday perhaps a day and saw those boats lying there, think after such an article: what does that come out of? Mr Laçin's question is whether this behaviour is criminal. "Criminal" means you're breaking a ban. If these ships are dealing with carcinogenic substances or substances that cause permanent damage to the marine environment, it is indeed prohibited and criminal. They'll be checked for that, too. There's an administration for it. When they arrive at the port, companies must be able to show, as it were, on a note, where they cleaned their ship and whether, in the case of dangerous substances in the aforementioned category, they had the ship properly cleaned in another port. If they don't have that evidence and they get caught, there will be far-reaching consequences in all ports that work together in this area. A company that broke the rules is at risk. So, fortunately, it has far-reaching consequences, because these kinds of companies need to be kept sharp on these types of substances. It is also prohibited to dispose of it within the Dutch zone. If a violation is committed, it can also be enforced. That's what's gonna happen. There is also a category of substances whose discharge is not prohibited, based on international regulations. Sometimes these substances are not worrying, but sometimes I see Mr Laçin looking at them. I can reassure Mr Laçin: so does the Netherlands. In the context of the IMO, we are in a structural position in favour of tightening up the discharge conditions for such substances. Mr Laçin and the Ministry are therefore pulling on the same side of the rope. Then the employee's point. Mr Laçin specifically asked who made the choice. The judge makes that choice. The judge called this lady as a witness. Then she is obliged to appear, as she did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Secretary of State explains procedures, as the Minister did in reply to the question: procedures, procedures, procedures. But Mr. Chairman, you, my neighbor and I have no use for these procedures. Fraud by these companies, by waste companies, by chemical companies and chemical tankers is the order of the day. This is also evident from last Saturday's play in De Telegraaf. The Secretary of State says it's being enforced. But those are procedures, too. The same document states that the Public Prosecutor's Office has asked the ILT, our inspection service, several times to maintain, to act. It literally says that the ILT says: "We have not taken any action, because these discharges are not prohibited." Then we get to the substances that wouldn't be banned. I often talk to this Secretary of State about substances that would not be prohibited, but which could have enormous consequences. We do not know what these substances do to our environment and our health. And yet these discharges continue, while the Dutch government said twenty years ago that it wants to put an end to this. Twenty years ago, but they are still the order of the day! Let's take a look at our eastern neighbors. Germany continues and fined shipping companies successfully. We're sending civil servants to testify in front of those shipping companies so they can avoid their punishment. I want to go back to the beginning, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Secretary of State say that she doesn't think this is criminal behavior, because it would fit in and be within the rules. I think we are very different about this. I therefore ask the Secretary of State again how it can be maintained, prosecuted and fined in Germany, but not in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	But if Mr Laçin does not take any of the answers, it will be a complicated conversation. I just told him the judge asked this lady to testify, but he's acting like you can easily ignore that. In a rule of law, that does not seem to me to be a very good way of conducting the discussion. Don't you think it's criminal? Carcinogens and substances that cause permanent damage to the environment are prohibited. The Netherlands also maintains this. But Mr Laçin himself says: if they are not banned substances, then the ILT does not maintain them. No, but if it's not forbidden, you're not gonna fined a party for that either. It is true that, within the framework of the IMO, the Netherlands is in structural contact with countries such as Liberia and Panama, countries which are at a very different stage of discussion about these substances than we are here in the Netherlands. Indeed, I talk about this regularly with Mr Laçin, because there is much to improve. We are pulling the strings there to make these international agreements ever sharper. That is what we are attracting, precisely because we share the concerns, and we also believe that we are not done with that dossier. One last word on the question of what is happening in Germany. I assume they also maintain those substances that are simply prohibited. That's what the Netherlands does. But I am willing to check again whether Germany has any other options in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	One last sentence, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	The Secretary of State makes a commitment here that it will look at what is happening in Germany. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to stress that, according to the SP, it must stop today and that the Secretary of State and this cabinet must act hard against companies that just sail the sea, ruin our environment and return to the sea. As long as that does not happen, we, together with everyone who is concerned about this, will continue to fight hard until this is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. We all share the concern. In that the SP is not in front of me, but she finds me at her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Madam President. This may be something international, but we believe that it should simply not be possible at international level, and at least not in our own country. We hear the Secretary of State explain very well why it should be now. Our question is therefore: is the Secretary of State prepared to raise these non-carcinogens much more carefully at IMO level? She has just said something about this, but I understand that it is also very important to have the right lobby. And a lobby with a coalition of the willing is often not enough. At the same time, at IMO level, we can...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	... to make all kinds of international agreements, as with the recent climate agreements. My question is therefore: is it possible to come up with really decisive policies in this area with surprising coalitions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	After Mr Sienot's encouragement, too, I am happy to continue to exert pressure with the Minister. Perhaps we can find some surprising coalitions to further strengthen the regulatory framework. But we are not just sticking to international regulations, we are even trying to make agreements on a voluntary basis, as the Minister has recently agreed with a number of companies on the no longer discharge of paraffin off the Dutch coast. That is alright, but she has been able to make an appointment with these companies to stop doing so. We are committed to international agreements and we are also continuing to see what we can do about them at national level. Finally, if we go towards reducing the use of substances of high concern, a discussion that I am having with the Chamber in a different context, it will have its effect on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. Since the discussion of the Probo Koala, this issue has been very clearly on the social and political agenda. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we really want to move towards a future in which something that comes in by ship or is a sensible cargo is passed and used? Or there's garbage, and it needs to be handled properly. In this way you have no discharges at all at sea, whether in territorial waters, in the economic zone or on the high seas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	Of course, there's a bit of overlap between those two. This is the case with substances which may have a recovery, but which you do not want the rest of which is still in the hold to be discharged. This is already prohibited in the case of substances that are carcinogenic or have permanent effects on the maritime environment. The Netherlands remains committed to strengthening international regulation on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. I hear the Secretary of State say that at IMO we are constantly in favour of tightening up the list of harmful substances, but that we are a little dependent on international regulations. In other words, we can't really do that much ourselves. My question is: can the Secretary of State explain what is going on with the Rijkswet institution's exclusive economic zone, and in particular Article 3b, which states that, as a coastal state, we do have jurisdiction over the protection and conservation of the marine environment? Can we not, on the basis of this jurisdiction, take action on substances which are not prohibited but are harmful?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	Within that exclusive economic zone, that discharge of substances that have permanent effects is also prohibited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	A second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	I am surprised, then, that the seawaving is 12 nautical miles away from the coast and that that zone would be 200 miles away from the coast at the most. At least that's what the law says. My question is whether you can possibly get that checked out if you do not know it right, because I know that this is not officially your portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	I have also asked this question in preparation, so what about our own exclusive economic zone? I've been assured it's forbidden in the 12 mile zone. I would be happy to see what powers we may have between that 12 mile zone and that 200 mile zone. I'm not ready to do that, but we can come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	That comes to the Chamber in writing? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	The Netherlands has wanted to get rid of these discharges at sea for 20 years. It all seems difficult and legally complicated, but I think there is hope. In the context of the OECD, we also have agreements on tackling environmental pollutants, but also on responsible business by multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	So much for the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	And here's my question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	It's all very short, isn't it? I'm learning. My question is to what extent the Secretary of State is prepared to address our own companies. They always say that they comply with the OECD guidelines, but in practice we can ask questions. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take that down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	I think that the example of paraffin shows that at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this is indeed part of the Minister's portfolio of all the willingness to look, including with the parties, at how you can make additional agreements on what is forbidden. For example, we found it very desirable that the paraffin should be returned and not discharged, because it would then end up on our beaches. I am also very pleased that the Minister was able to make that appointment with the companies. I think that's a good example. Perhaps there are other substances on which such an agreement can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you.
