ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u1	We are here for the second-term debate, the reply and rejoinder, on the Customer Care Institutions Participation Act 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp. She speaks on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The patient or client should be at the centre of care. If we want the client to be at the heart of care, then strong participation is indispensable, because good care means high quality care and perhaps even more important customer-oriented care. So I repeat once again that D66 is happy with this law. For example, D66 welcomes the introduction of direct participation in Article 2. We do recognise that this is a fairly new understanding for clients, patients, care institutions and client councils. We would therefore like to see this direct participation given more hands and feet. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in Article 2 of the Customer Councils Participation Act 2018 direct participation is introduced for clients and patients;]] [[Whereas this form of participation is left free of form;]] [[considers that this new statutory participation can make a major contribution to the participation of clients and patients and that both institutions and clients and patients can benefit from this;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with small and large healthcare institutions and their inter-branch organisations, client and patient organisations, LOC Management in Care and the LSR, to organise a conference in mid-2019 with the aim of exchanging ideas, further shaping the direct participation from Article 2 of the law and reaching an agreement on how to effectively shape this direct participation;]] [[Invites the Government to actively disseminate this hand-out to the relevant parties and inform the House of Representatives at the end of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34858-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u4	Mr. Chairman. There has been a discussion about participation in the first line. I would like to raise a number of issues. In the context of proper care in the right place we see a movement from the second to the first line. This means that participation in this sector will only become more important. For my group, therefore, it is essential that the provision of care should also be made customer-oriented within this first line of action. As a result of the amendments tabled by other parties and myself, I have had a discussion with many interested parties. It is, of course, about finding the balance between giving the patient space to express and hear and keeping the administrative burden as low as possible. I have finally come to the conclusion that participation in the first line is also necessary for organisations with fewer than 25 natural persons. It is my belief that we can best arrange this by joining Article 2 of the law, namely through direct participation. This offers space for customization and innovation through the freedom of form. In this I also feel strengthened by the Patient Federation and the LOC. But I have also heard the concerns of the first-line organizations. That is precisely why it seems so good to me. I was just discussing it when I read my motion to discuss direct participation. Fortunately, a great deal is already happening in this area. That is why I have decided to accept my amendment to item No. 31 and, together with Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union, to withdraw a new sub-amendment to item No. 35................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that it has now been incorporated into the law that the Client Council should be asked for advice or consent in good time. But even better is a board that involves client council as early as possible in decision-making, in order to take the client perspective proactively. Scientific research and the opinions of the Economic and Social Council, for example, show that the proactive involvement of client councils at an early stage provides more customer-oriented care. From timely information to proactive involvement. Is the Minister prepared to consult with Branch Organisations Care and the Customer and Patient Councils to see how the benefits of proactive involvement of the customer perspective can be exploited as effectively as possible? I came to that at the end of my term, but I see that there are some interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u5	Mrs Bergkamp spoke about the importance she attaches to the fact that there is participation and participation in smaller first-line organisations, among 25 people. Now I also hear concerns from the field that this would lead to additional administrative burdens. Does Mrs. Bergkamp recognize this, or does she think this isn't so bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u6	The Bergkamp amendment (Doc. 31) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u7	I think that is a fair question, and that is why I have spoken with many organisations. I must say that sometimes it is very good that there is time between a first and a second term. But of course, we are also quite bombarded with all kinds of ideas. That's what feeds you, which is why I made the trade-off. I think it is important to have direct participation, even if there are fewer than 25 natural persons. The point is that, in line with my amendment, you ask once a year: what do you think? I deliberately left that shape-free. There are a lot of organizations that already do that. Well fine, go ahead with that and think about how to reconnect that in a good way. Of course, you can do this in different ways. You can put up a note in your GP practice stating: what do you think of our opening hours? Or closing times, in particular, which is often discussed. It may also be a survey, but I deliberately left it free of form. I therefore believe that the so-called administrative burden is rather low. In my motion, I refer to the fact that it is good to talk about this with each other, because there are a lot of good ideas about this direct participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u8	Thank you. This reassures me. It is therefore not the case that, according to the amendment, only forms of participation would be acceptable in which one has to ask for consent from each patient, so to speak, but that other forms of participation are also possible, which do not lead to additional administrative burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u9	That's right, correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u10	I did not see which of you was first there, but that is apparently Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u11	Normally, I'd say ladies first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u12	But not right now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u13	If the President gives me the floor, I should take advantage of it. In addition to Mrs Ellemeet, I am at least very reassured by the way you are doing this. But still: is there a side of control on it? Suppose you're a little practice and you don't do that. Can the IGJ come by? If so, what can be the consequences? Could Mrs Bergkamp give an example of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u14	A fair question about supervision and control. I think that in his letter, and after the first period in the report, the Minister has given a good answer. Everything you include in this law falls under the same framework and that means that there is risk-based supervision and that all topics are included in the regular visits. The Minister also states that this does not create additional capacity or additional visits. Those are just regular visits. I also add that it shouldn't be ticking lists. But it falls under the same supervisory framework as everything else. The Minister also replied in his letter: no additional visits and no additional capacity. So as far as I'm concerned, he doesn't have the administrative burden in there either, if that's a concern. I would also like to say that, of course, we are not doing this for nothing either. We've really deliberately sought a balance. It is about participation, including for those small institutions, but it is about appropriateness and differentiation. The Council of State has also indicated that it is good to differentiate. Hence the choice we have made and the sub-amendment to the SGP amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u15	I thank Mrs Bergkamp for her answers. I have one more question. If I read the amendment correctly, is it really from 1 to 25, or is it from 10 to 25? I myself have interpreted it in such a way that everything under 25 is meant, and that is a change for the first line compared to if we had kept 10 as a border, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u16	That's right. Mr Slootweg's interpretation is correct. And again, it's shape-free, and I think that's good, too, even though you're a small institution. I sometimes think about my past with my GP experience. Our family visited the same family doctor for years. The waiting room was always full. We were extremely satisfied, but I would have liked it if the doctor had asked once: what do you think? And if we had gotten a feedback from that... I think we've been a lot further with developments since my childhood. We are talking today about participation, and I think it is good to ask that question in form-free, sometimes with low administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u17	Thank you. Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u18	Following on from Mr Slootweg's question. I have also interpreted it in such a way that this should apply from one person, and I find it complicated. The amendment does indeed call for feedback. If you have one doctor with one assistant, then there is always direct contact between the persons involved. Then you can arrange this in a very different way, but something has to be set in motion, for example, a kind of survey must be carried out. Then you have to look at privacy laws again. Can you use that data? There is a need to reconnect, and I think that is a very heavy burden for the very little ones. I wonder if that is the intention of the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u19	Mrs. Bergkamp, it may also be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u20	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome this question. When you're with two people, it doesn't seem to me that in view of the heaviness, you have to choose the most far-reaching form. I can imagine you'd put up a note and put it back together. You're saying we've talked to so many people, and our times remain the same. We always assume the small ones and it must also be pragmatic. But I also want to say that I don't think it's weird if you ask your patients this, as a little one. And that feedback can be done in different ways. That can be done in a newsletter, it can be done on a note in the general practitioner's practice, depending also on the size and what is appropriate. That's why it's shape-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u21	I find it complicated, especially for the very small, because I think there is already a lot of bilateral contact. I think that you can also ask a patient to report it himself to the general practitioner if he has anything else on his mind, for example with regard to the service providers. Especially if there is no lower limit, I wonder if we are not asking too much of the people. I wonder if you'd be willing to put a lower limit in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u22	The amendment is what the amendment is, and I think we have sought all the space by leaving it free of form. Let's just get some experience with it. We have also tabled a motion on direct participation to gain that experience. We shouldn't make it bigger than it is, but by getting the bottom out of it, you're actually saying that this form of participation isn't necessary. As far as I'm concerned, it can be very small and shape-free. If a general practitioner regularly asks questions to patients, then you could also see that as a form of direct participation and then feedback. So I'd like a little bit of creativity with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u23	Let's try that shape anyway. Tomorrow morning, I'm going to my dentist. He's got one assistant, that's all. He often asks me what I think of everything, but then I lie with my mouth open and I can't say anything back. But if there really is something, then of course we can do it right after that. Is that enough, or do you think that something should be requested and recorded on paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u24	I do recognize that it is annoying when you have to have a conversation when you are in the process of treatment. So I recognize the problem. But if you just regularly ask your patients how they're doing, if they have a point for improvement, then that's an oral survey, so to speak. It is important that you finally show what you do with it, whether you put it back through a note or otherwise. We keep talking about the two-pitters, the little practices. This should also be free of form, with small administrative burdens, but of course you also have centres with ten or fifteen, of which you can expect a little more. It's customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u25	I do understand that. It is not necessarily necessary to record it in writing. The feedback can also be form-free in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u26	If there's a living room visit and you're going to inform everyone in such a session orally about what happened to the results, that's a feedback. It seems more efficient to put up a note or something. Let us find out with each other whether a piece of creativity is possible. I have spoken with many parties and there are very nice examples of how to organise participation there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u27	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u28	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u29	I call Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I stressed that the present proposal is a step in the right direction on several points. In important areas, patients and clients are given consent and advisory rights. Unfortunately, however, they do not get them on the most crucial issues such as mergers, relocations and renovations. There seems to be a certain fear in the cabinet and also in the coalition that care really should be democratized and that people, who are involved not as a passer-by but as a resident in care, should actually be given power over fundamental decisions. The SP has tabled a number of amendments in order to give greater powers to the Customer Council, such as the right of consent to the appointment of directors and supervisors and to major decisions such as mergers, relocations and renovations. In September, when we held the first round of this debate, the Minister was rather obstinate in recognising that any location of a healthcare institution should at least have the opportunity to set up a client council. We don't understand his stubbornness. The desire to set up a client council per location is crucial. It is important that control is regulated precisely where the care is provided. That is why we had tabled an amendment. That is the amendment to item No. 12. We are going to withdraw this, because we are in agreement with Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment, which actually wants to regulate the same thing and then it is a little double-up. Number 12 may be withdrawn. Mr. Chairman. I must say, however, that in the first round of this debate, when he said that this law was designed to give the right of assent to subjects that affect the direct sphere of influence of the clients, the Minister has to say that this law is designed to give the right of assent to subjects that affect the direct sphere of influence of the clients. He then mentioned catering as one of the pressing examples of what this law is about. I was shot in the wrong throat at the time, because I think it is a form of contempt to talk about patients and clients in this way. They are now given the choice between bami and kale, but no say in merger or relocation. I don't think this is any way to reason. I am thinking, for example, of the elderly who are currently in a Careyn institution in Utrecht. 100-year-olds have been forced to move twice, without having to say anything about it. I am also thinking of the patients who have worked out the Slotervaart hospital. If only they had more say or consent, we could have saved a great deal of suffering. Does the Minister now recognise that a merger, relocation or conversion has a huge impact on the client's immediate sphere of influence, as he himself calls it? Wouldn't it make sense to give consent to patients and clients in the situations I mentioned just now, because it affects their most fundamental position? It's really about their lives, about their future, about their care. Finally, Mr President. The SP has tabled an amendment today. The proposal provides that the right of consultation and consent in the case of renovations and the appointment of directors is not limited to institutions where clients stay on average for more than six months. As far as we are concerned, it would be better for clients' councils to have rights in places where people stay shorter, for example in hospitals, and so they can decide on these important matters. I'd like to hear if the Minister agrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u31	The Heink amendment (Doc. 12) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By the way, I see three and a half minutes on my bell. It's a legal procedure. I'm afraid I'm gonna need a little bit more time. I hope that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u33	We're gonna try. If it's a little bit of a prick, I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u34	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, we have already talked extensively about the law co-determination clients care institutions. An important law, because the Christian Union attaches great importance to good participation of clients and patients in the care they receive. It took a long time before the bill was in place. It turned out to be quite difficult to reconcile the wishes of the care organisations on the one hand and the participation organisations on the other. That is why the Minister had to look up the middle and, in some respects, sufficient minimum standards. It is therefore logical that the Chamber would like to focus on it from time to time. The Christian Union Group attaches great importance to good and local participation for clients of healthcare institutions and thus also to strong powers for client councils. At the same time, in the first period, I also indicated that more is needed than just a legislative proposal. There is also a need for cultural change. I would like to mention a number of points in my speech today: local participation, the limit of the number of employees, variety and experimental space and participation in pgb-funded housing initiatives. The Christian Union Group believes that local participation, close to clients, should be the norm. However, in the legislative proposal, the provision on the creation of multiple client councils has been adapted to the consultation proposal: "no, unless" instead of "yes, unless." However, long-term care and home care institutions should, if reasonably required, set up a local client council on request. The legislative proposal states that the request must be made by a representative delegation of clients or their representatives, the "yes, if'. This does not adequately reflect the government's commitment to ensuring that local participation is the norm. That is why, together with the groups of CDA, SP, D66, GroenLinks and the Labour Party, I have tabled an amended amendment which provides for institutions for long-term care and home care to be obliged to set up a client council per location, unless there is no need to do so or otherwise for one or more locations. The amendment also regulates that a new local client council should also be given the corresponding tasks and powers in relation to issues specific to the group of clients for which the local client council has been set up. Mr. Chairman. Then the border of ten natural persons. It has led to a lot of discussion. In the first period, I announced that I would table an amendment to change this to ten full-time units, but I am not going to do that. There is now an amendment to the SGP which distinguishes between long-term care and outpatient care, in particular first-line care. For primary care, a limit of 25 natural persons is proposed. There is no need to set up a client council below that limit. My group thinks it is a good idea to distinguish between institutions that provide long-term care and home care and institutions that provide outpatient care. That is why my group will support the SGP amendment. I think it is important that a certain form of participation within each institution is properly regulated. That is why, together with my colleague, Mr Bergkamp, I have tabled a sub-amendment to the SGP amendment, which requires institutions responsible for outpatient care under the 25-person limit to organise direct participation of patients and clients. Mr. Chairman. The research carried out by iBMG in connection with the Bouwmeester/Dik-Faber motion shows that participation benefits from variety and experimental space. However, there is little room for this. The Minister always states that the law lays down minimum standards and that there is therefore scope to make more agreements that go further. But is it also possible for local client councils and institutions to deviate from the proposed legal provisions, even if this means doing less than setting minimum standards, but this is compensated in other respects? That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Institute of Policy & Management for Health notes that there is no best practice for shaping participation and that the sec ond regulation of a legal obligation to have a representative body of clients is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for effective participation;]] [[Furthermore, iBMG states that there should be room for variety in participation and for experiments with new forms of participation to learn from it;]] [[Considering that the legislative proposal compared with the current law gives more care institutions the obligation to set up a client council and that this requires tailor-made work so that these institutions have time to grow;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Branch Organisations for Health and the Representatives of Customer Councils, to agree on variety in participation and experimental space, with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of participation in health care institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34858-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u35	Mr. Chairman. Pgb-funded residential initiatives or parental initiatives are treated in this bill as professional health care institutions. The bill requires client councils to do so if more than ten healthcare providers are involved. However, that is what these initiatives are about. Therefore, I do not think it is realistic for this obligation to apply also to pgb residential initiatives, also because parents often already have direct participation. The bill allows for the exclusion from AMvB of certain types of care or categories of institutions. I think it would be a good idea to at least make an exception for the pgb-funded housing initiatives. I have the next motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that small-scale pgb-funded residential initiatives are treated in this legislative proposal as equivalent to professional care institutions;]] [[Whereas this requires the establishment of a Client Board if there are generally more than 10 caregivers, so that pgb-funded residential initiatives can face high administrative burdens;]] [[Whereas the management of residential initiatives is composed of the (legal) representatives of the clients, with whom client control is well anchored;]] [[calls on the Government, by general measure of governance, to provide that this law does not apply to pgb-funded residential initiatives where the representatives of the residents form the board and have the direction of care on their behalf,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34858-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u36	Yeah, I need my last paragraph. Lately, there has been a lot of talk in the Chamber about malnutrition and about mental care in the neighborhood. Here is an important task for home care, but also the outpatient ggz is of great importance here, for example. Clients' councils have no right of consent here, but an advisory right. How does the Minister intend to ensure that clients have sufficient participation in these two key issues? Is he prepared to pay particular attention to this in the review of the law? Thank you very much for your coulance, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u37	You needed to speak very quickly. Now you can breathe. I call Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for the answers to the first-term questions and for the written information he sent to the House of Representatives on 27 September. Let me start by repeating that the legislative text before us is really a step forward in relation to the current law. But that doesn't mean that we don't think it can do any better. The CDA, like the SGP, has already drawn attention in the first term to the possibility of bringing justice back to the Business Chamber in the event of a dispute between the care organisation and the Client Council. The costs and time of the appeal procedure can therefore be substantially reduced. That is why we have also signed this amendment. Mr. Chairman. Minister De Jonge regularly states that care should mainly be organised locally. Let us therefore think: let us organise participation as locally as possible. That is why my name is under Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment based on the so-called yes-unless principle. This amendment lays down that healthcare institutions must do everything in their power to set up a client council per location, unless there is no need to do so. The need from the clients is leading. Client councils should not be set up per location where there is no need for them. Mr. Chairman. We attach importance to the proper definition of which client council has control over the diversity of subjects. Each care institution has to deal with multiple client councils. That is why, on behalf of the CDA, I have the amendment to item No. 37 which makes it clear when the local client council is competent and when the central client council is in a position to act. In any case, this is a framework which I believe is clearer than the current Article 6. Mr. Chairman. From intention to organise the right care in the right place, the focus for much care lies on the first-line organisations. At the same time, the programme (Ont) Regulal de Zorg and the main agreement for the first line, in which more time for the patient gets prominent attention. With this bill, we believe that too many primary care providers should set up a client council. This brings with it high additional administrative burdens and potentially high costs. It cannot be the intention, on the one hand, to reduce burdens and costs, to raise them again by means of another law. That is why my group supports the SGP amendment. However important participation is, however, we have doubts about this form of participation in primary care without a place of residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u39	Mrs de Vries has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u40	Yes, it was about the previous point, the amendment that has been tabled to ensure that not everything is discussed in duplicate. In itself, I agree with that point in substance, but I find the solution chosen in the amendment a little complicated. I was wondering whether it would not be better to arrange for an agreement to be made in the co-determination system, which is precisely where we are dealing with it. Then I think you can arrange a lot of customization. I was curious whether Mr Slootweg would agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u41	We have also thought about this for a long time: shouldn't we just do it through the participation scheme? We only believe that, if you do not indicate some kind of intention in this, when it is actually a matter of central client council and when more of the local client council, where we think from the local client council, you can get a melee of topics that are talked about every time, both locally and centrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u42	I think it is very important that we look at customization, because there is actually no institution the same, also in terms of culture and what patients and client councils want. So I would prefer to give this even more freedom and simply make those agreements with each other at local level. In that sense, therefore, I have some difficulty with the amendment, but I understand that you are not prepared to rebuild it in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u43	Then, of course, we have a bit of a point that the Minister has to react first if he sees that problem. Maybe on the side of the answer after that we can see how we get closer together. Because with Mrs De Vries I really do believe that it should not be prescribed, but I do think it makes sense that you have a little direction, both locally and centrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u45	Mr. Chairman. Then I have another question for the Minister. I note that there is concern among the client councils whether a dispute will allow legal assistance to be sought. Does the Minister want to keep an eye on the fact that client councils are sufficiently able to use legal assistance and that costs are not a problem? The text provides for reasonable compensation. However, I can see that people are afraid that this is not enough. I would be very sorry if it turned out that over the course of time these costs have been a reason for many client councils not to seek the assistance they want. So I actually hope that the Minister will keep an eye on that through the IGJ. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. My group is of the opinion that the Customer Participation Act 2018 is really a step forward. We are therefore very pleased with this piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u46	Thank you. I call Mr Stoffer. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u47	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, the SGP critically entered into the debate on the Participation Care Act. Please understand: the SGP is committed to the participation of clients and patients in the care they receive. But we could and did not agree to a proposal that, despite all the electoral promises and agreements, would burden healthcare providers with even more rules, even more justice and even more unnecessary costs. For the SGP, therefore, there were only two things to do: either reject the bill in the vote or try to improve the bill in such a way that we could help the cause, because we agree on that, namely the influence of clients and patients, one step further. As you know us, we chose the latter. I would therefore like to use this second deadline to briefly explain the five amendments that we have tabled and to answer any questions that may arise. In addition, I will respond very briefly to some of the other amendments that have been tabled. No client council for the first line. Our biggest objection to the bill was that all primary care providers should also set up a client council. This would entail a lot of additional administrative burdens and costs, which would run counter to the programme (Ont) Rules of Procedure and the main agreement for the first line. In addition, we find that setting up a client council for an institution in which one cannot stay is not an effective way to organise participation by and for clients and patients. We have therefore tabled an amendment with Mrs De Vries of the VVD in respect of item No. 32. In this we arrange that the obligation to set up a client council will apply only to care organisations where more than 25 people provide care. I hope, also in view of the participation of political groups in the first term, that this proposal will receive a broad majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u48	There is a question for you from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u49	First of all, a heartfelt compliment for Mr Stoffer's work and his support. Many good amendments have been tabled, which cause less regulatory pressure and which we wholeheartedly support. That's what I wanted to say. My question is as follows. There's a lot of discussion about that border: 10, 25, 50, none or any other form. Could you tell me again, through the President, what the 25-year-old limit is based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u50	It's not hard to lay down on anything. We just put our ear to listen in the field. We noticed at ten it was very minimal. We could have gone to 30 or 50. At some point we noticed that this is a balance where people in the field but also here in the Chamber feel: this seems a reasonable degree. But practice will have to prove it. It's not a harsh judgment, in the sense of "this is exactly the right one." It could have been 24 or 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u51	I think that's the honest answer. It's not an exact science either. I was wondering if we're gonna let the neighborhood nursing go. Are the neighborhood nurses falling under that new border, or are they excluded? I couldn't quite get that out of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u52	You're asking me a difficult question. I think they're being excluded, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u53	But you're not sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u54	I'm doubting a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u55	Is that something to come back to later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u56	Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u57	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u58	I'll come back to that later. Okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u59	Do you agree, Mrs Bergkamp? Yeah? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u60	Then I would like to respond very briefly to a sub-amendment tabled by Mrs Bergkamp together with Mrs Dik-Faber. In doing so, they want to arrange direct participation for healthcare providers with fewer than 25 healthcare workers. That sounds nice, but the consequence is that this amendment also confronts healthcare organisations with high administrative burdens if they employ less than ten healthcare professionals. We have just noticed in my interruption that it might be a little bit easy, but my point is that this goes a little further than the original legislative proposal. My consideration here will be: should there perhaps not be any ground for this, as Mr Slootweg also pointed out in his interruption? Anyway, I am very curious how the Minister weighs this sub-amendment. As a result, we will give our final judgment. Mr. Chairman. A few other amendments, which are a little less heavy for us but which are important. Then it is about the course of justice to the enterprise chamber and its limitation. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 22, in which the profession is now regulated through the enterprise chamber, I can be very brief. I am pleased that the Minister has so quickly sought advice from the Council on the case law and that on that basis he is in favour of this amendment. A possible appeal procedure can therefore be substantially limited both in time and in money, and in our opinion this is in the interests of client councils but also of health care institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u61	Let us return to the question of participation for the smaller institutions or for caregivers who are only two or three. It is in the interests of the client and the patient that he can say whether he is satisfied or not and what he would like otherwise, but it is of course also in the interests of the caregiver. I can very well imagine that it is also nice for the caregiver to know: are people satisfied, what could I do better? It's also a good thing that people can think along on how things can be better. In the end, it is especially important that caregivers have the time to do so. If it does not lead to a lot of extra administration, it is especially important that there is time for that conversation, so that both the client and the health care provider can benefit from it. Does Mr Stoffer agree with me that if we create that time, then of course that is also a matter of agreements with the financiers. It is in the interests of both the caregiver and the client to have the conversation with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u62	I've been thinking about what it's all about. My interruption to Mrs Bergkamp was also aimed at this. Let me go back to the example of that dentist. If a dentist can just ask "how do you think I'm doing it?" Instead of being ready for the next patient, I can imagine. If it really has to be something that has a piece of administration attached to it, then I find it more difficult, because then you ask quite a lot of someone who prefers to treat ordinary patients, who may not be able to do so either and who may have to put up with everything in addition. For me, therefore, it really is a question of whether it can be very, very, very light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u63	I think we agree that it should not lead to additional administrative burdens. Of course, it is nice if other clients also know what decisions their healthcare provider makes, also on the basis of conversations that have been made. In the end, you want people to be informed. That doesn't have to lead to a lot of extra administration. But I also hear Mr Stoffer say, perhaps a little implicit, that it is in the interests of the client, but also of the caregiver, that we are talking to each other about how we can further improve care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u64	Yeah, I agree. For a dentist or a one-pitter household doctor, it's just as well to be told on the street that he's doing well. There is a point in that regard. I am really waiting for the Minister's answer and then I am going to weigh very seriously how we look at it. I have to say one thing: that very form-free thing Mrs Bergkamp said made me a little less in the judgment on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u66	I come very briefly to the last three amendments, because I have very little time. The amendment in part No. 32 arranges that, like all other costs to be incurred by a client council, costs of legal assistance shall be borne by the institution only if these costs are reasonably necessary. This avoids excessive costs for legal aid. The fourth amendment, the amendment to item No. 24, provides that the Client Council shall decide not to approve a proposed decision submitted to it for its agreement only after consultations have been held with the institution on the intention not to agree. It promotes the resolution of differences of opinion between the client council and the institution in order to avoid legal proceedings. I think that's what everyone wants. Then there is the last amendment, the amendment to item No. 25. This provides that the confidence committee may be asked to give its consent to any proposed decisions which are required of the institution for serious reasons. Important reasons such as the content of care can also be presented to the Committee of Trusted Persons. Mr. Chairman. I am very curious how the Minister weighs those amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Ellemeet, may I invite you? You speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u68	Thank you, Mr President. The concern lies with all of us and certainly with the people who use it. We must therefore see a patient in care as much more than just a temporary user of care, but as someone who can really think along on how to further improve care. Patients are citizens who, together with others, have views about the care they receive. Local participation is crucial to make drivers aware of the views of these patients. If we are to constantly improve our public services, we need to offer as close to the patient as possible low-threshold forms of participation. I would ask the Minister to include this point of departure in all his policies. We are talking about this law now, but we do not want this view of care to be anchored in it alone. We should actually bring it back at any time. I'd like a response to that. There has been a debate on the increase in regulatory pressure when client councils become mandatory for first-line organisations with more than ten care providers. My group understands these concerns. She also believes that the regulatory burden may increase too much by setting up a client council from 10 care providers, but for my group it is essential that participation and participation of patients should also be included in the first line of care provision for smaller care providers. As a patient, you should not depend on your choice for a large or small healthcare provider to become actively involved. Wouldn't it be weird if you didn't have a say in the matter at once if you chose a small care provider, when you did when you were with a large healthcare provider? We have, of course, already had a number of interruptions about this. I welcome the amendment to an amendment, which I think I should call it, or no, it is a sub-amendment; for example, you will learn a little bit more from Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Dik-Faber, to see how we can also make it possible for the smaller carers to have feedback between the patient and the health care provider. As far as my group is concerned, that is part of good concern. It is a natural element of how we can continuously improve that care. Hence my support for that amendment. Mr. Chairman. Finally. In the first term, I have already indicated that the current legislative proposal on GroenLinks still does not take sufficient account of local participation. Where there is a discussion as to whether or not a client council is desirable per location, the burden of proof should lie with the institution and not with the clients. We will therefore support the amendment tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Slootweg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u69	Thank you. Mrs De Vries has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It should be logical for good care to take into account the wishes and needs of their clients. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is mainly about culture among healthcare institutions, healthcare professionals and their directors. It should be normal to study how clients want to organize their day, what day activities they want to do, what they want to eat and how they want to live. It's also about general practitioners. How do you stay available? And can you get an e-mail consult? Let us be honest: a lot of healthcare institutions are doing this now. So we don't start from scratch. But we also need to prevent this legislation from going through with rules and again creating administrative burdens and regulatory burdens. As I said, it is a question of culture to regulate effective participation and there must be room for tailor-made work. The VVD welcomes the commitment of Minister Bruins not to wait for the review after five years, as set out in the law, but also to evaluate and monitor the impact in the interim, taking into account in particular the effectiveness, administrative burden and the additional regulatory burden. That's good about the VVD. In the first term, a number of colleagues have already said it and discussed the limits of the law for a mandatory client council. The Minister has seen that many parties are dissatisfied with the current border. I would actually have liked it if the Minister had said proactively: I am going to look at it again and come up with a concrete proposal myself. That didn't happen. There were different variants. We would have liked that limit to be raised to 50 healthcare professionals, in accordance with the Works Councils Act, but also in accordance with the health-care-wide governance code. But we have also been able to see that there is no majority in favour of this, and that is why we, as a VVD, have chosen a second best solution as far as we are concerned, and we have submitted the SGP amendment, in order to raise the first line of the line to 25 healthcare professionals. We want to disrupt care and give confidence to the care professional. Then we also have to look at new and extra rules. This also means looking at the proportionality of the regulation. We expect the Minister to take this as a starting point for the general measure of governance when it comes to exemptions. In any case, we assume that the pharmacists and military care institutions, as well as the pgb-funded elderly residential initiatives and medical-specialist companies, will be excluded. In the light of fewer rules and administrative burdens and more customisation, the amendment of the VVD, the Christian Union and D66 on voluntary client councils should also be seen. Now it's been arranged that if you have a voluntary client council, you have to meet all the requirements of the law. We think we should make more customisation possible there. That is why we are proposing a lighter regime, with a number of guarantees that it will be regulated. In addition to the rights for the Client Council, which we consider important for them to be laid down, we also have responsibilities as far as we are concerned. We thought that was not enough. It was mainly about contact with the grassroots, but also about the regular inventory of the wishes of the clients concerned. That is why, together with D66, we have tabled an amendment to make this possible. Another point that has been raised in detail...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u71	Before you go any further, Mr. Hijink would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u72	Let me turn to the previous point. I hear Mrs De Vries say that she hopes for a number of exceptions that the Minister must make possible, including medical-specialist companies. I'm a little surprised. Perhaps it would be more logical to make it possible for patients, clients at least to have a say and a say in their work, for example through the hospital's client council. Is it no longer possible to propose something like this instead of suggesting that we do not need any participation at all in what such parties do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u73	I think it's important that there's control when you're with a medical specialist. In the first period alone, we had a very clear exchange of views that you could have the problem that you have a client council at a medical-specialist company and in the hospital. I do not think that is a desirable situation. A hospital must have a client council. As far as we're concerned, it should also include the clients of the medical specialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u74	This is, of course, also the result of the whole of the sub-contractors in the care. Does Mrs De Vries therefore think that medical specialists should respond to statements made by the hospital's client council? If she says that the Minister must make an exception possible, these specialists obviously have nothing left to listen to. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u75	If there is participation, I think that this should also be listened to and that you should have the talk about it with each other. I think that's the most ideal situation. So I think it is very important that we look at how this is designed. I think the best way to do that is to look at how you are going to shape that into a participation scheme of that institution. I find it very undesirable for the medical-specialist company to say one thing and have arranged something there, while there is another wish coming from the hospital. I would find that very undesirable for the clients. I think that makes it completely unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u76	Please continue. In two, we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u77	The legal procedure has also been discussed for a long time. Together with a number of parties, we have tabled an amendment on this subject, with the first applicant being the SGP. We thought that procedure was too long. Thankfully, because we had a little more time, the Minister has once again been able to ask the Council to look into the matter before the Court of Justice. That was initially the problem of adaptation. The Court of Justice does not see any problems in this regard. We are pleased that the legal procedure can be shortened, so that we can counter legalisation. Finally, there is another amendment that the SGP tabled first together with the PvdA, the CDA and GroenLinks. That's about the serious reasons to deviate. We would find it very bad if care-related aspects, the quality of care, safety, hygiene and future stakeholders could not be taken into account. This amendment will make that possible. I think that's an important improvement of the law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u78	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I call Mr Kerstens on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see I still have plenty of time to close my jacket. So let me start with that. The Labour Party believes that people should be able to participate and participate in decisions on matters that are important to them, whether as a resident of a neighbourhood, city, municipality or country, as a student or as a student, as a tenant or as an employee. This applies everywhere, but certainly also in care, to clients or patients. They are often in an even more dependent position than the others I have just mentioned. Moreover, where we work with public money, money from all of us, public interests, interests of all of us, must be safeguarded. This must be done, among other things, through participation as a counterweight. Serious participation in care contributes to a better awareness of who does it all again. We're not doing it for ourselves, not for the drivers in the care, but for the clients and the patients. The Labour Party believes that participation should be organized as closely as possible to people and where decisions and the consequences of decisions are felt. The Labour Party also believes that this participation should have control over its own support. That is why we have tabled several amendments together with a number of other colleagues. They've come by in the last few weeks. Earlier this evening, another one was reviewed. Because the culture of participation of clients and patients in care is not one that automatically makes the best hope, this law is a step forward. He offers a firm, legal anchoring and thus helps the co-determination culture desired by the Labour Party in the care. It is important to keep the finger on the wrist. In the first round of this debate, the Minister, at my explicit request, has shed some light on the role of the inspection in this respect. Thank you for that. However, I still have a motion which contributes to the role that we have to play. After all, it's our law. So it is also our job to keep that finger on the wrist, see if it works and adjusts when necessary. The next motion will help with that, as far as I'm concerned. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Health and Youth Inspectorate (IGJ) has an important role to play in ensuring compliance with the Customer Participation Act (WMcz 2018);]] [[Whereas monitoring compliance with the law and understanding of its operation are of great importance, taking into account that to date there has not been a culture of adult participation in the care;]] [[having noted that in response to relevant questions, it has been indicated that annual "relevant developments" with regard to client councils and participation will be reported to the Chamber, without any explication;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber annually of the (trends in the) health care institutions in their Annual Document on Social Responsibility to the IGJ concerning, for example, the presence of client councils, their financial and material support and the satisfaction of client councils, the number of unsolicited opinions and the extent to which they have led to measures and the setting up of committees of trusted persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34858-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u80	A sympathetic motion, but my question to Mr Kerstens is whether that applies to any care institution that has a client council. I believe that these are very specific questions, but you are also asking for an annual report. I can imagine that this could also lead to a great deal of administrative burden, but perhaps that fear can be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u81	Yeah, I'll try that. In the first term, I addressed the Minister to the important role of the inspection in monitoring compliance with this law. Before the law comes into force, I would like to have more insight into what that control will look like. The Minister has written a letter to the Chamber in which he states that. I thanked him for that. In that letter, the cases I mentioned are listed as data that all health care institutions already have to provide towards inspection. I am concerned that the inspection then shares with the Chamber those trends, as I mentioned it, so that we can assess whether the law meets expectations or whether there are bottlenecks. It is not an additional burden that we impose on institutions, but it is a matter of data that they already have to provide. To say it disrespectfully: the inspection should pass through a staple to share it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u82	If I understand Mr Kerstens correctly, the point is that the inspection should take a look at that, and this can also be done in a fairly short report to the Chamber, and we are alert to developments. Is Mr Kerstens' wish for a number of recommendations to be added? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u83	I have a high level of inspection, and I am sure Mr Slootweg does, so if the inspection draws conclusions from those data, I would like to invite the inspection to share it with us, whether or not through the Minister. Then we can take advantage of that. As far as the way in which these data reach the Chamber is concerned, the inspection sends out an annual report, and I think it is possible to do so. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u84	You're at the end of your speech. Thank you. Mrs Agema does not need a second term. The Minister needs a suspension until 6:05.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u85	The second term is for the Secretary of State for Medical Care to take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u86	Mr. Chairman. I will be happy to go through the various contributions and discuss the motions and amendments per speaker. Then we should look afterwards to see if I have forgotten something, but I intend to pass the motions and amendments by each speaker in so far as they have been tabled by his or her party as the first petitioner. Mr. Chairman. The first comment, about organising a conference, was made by Mrs Bergkamp. I find that an interesting proposal. I'm always looking for something: who should take the initiative? I would like to see this done by the field, because then it also has support and then there is motivation. If I may explain the motion in such a way that we are going to take that up with the field, that the field is taking the lead so that there is support and motivation and people are going there, and that the department, I, is making an active contribution to that, then I would judge the motion in part No. 39 to leave to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u87	I agree with the Minister's interpretation. I also hope that the field will listen, which on that basis can be initiated jointly and that this will lead to a nice congress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u88	Mr. Chairman. Ms Bergkamp asked to consult with industry organisations in the care sector and with representatives of client and patient councils on the benefits of proactive involvement of client councils. If I am going to sit around the table with those parties, I would like to address this question about the proactive involvement. It was a question and I will give you a confirmed answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u89	Mrs. Bergkamp nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u90	That's good. Mr. Chairman. It does not have the lowest number, but the amendment to item No. 35 was tabled by Mrs Bergkamp with the support of the Christian Union. This sub-amendment, of course, can only be discussed if the amendment to item No. 33 has been accepted, but let's assume that for a moment. It proposes that the primary care provided by AMvB should provide at least 25 or fewer healthcare providers with an opportunity to participate at least once a year. I am not really in favour of legally obliging small primary care providers to participate. I actually think that this should be form-free and should be thought of by the small physiotherapy practices or the dental practices or whatever you have. I'm against the extra administrative burden. It is not in line with first-line care, as we discussed it in the first term. So that's why I'm trying to dissuade this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u91	I am a co-author of the amendment. We have just exchanged a number of issues in the debate, namely the freedom of form of participation, which will not increase the administrative burden. I am also convinced that there are many professionals who are already doing this. What I also liked was Mrs Ellemeet's argument. She said that participation should not depend on the choice of a large or small healthcare provider. I would very much like a response from the Minister. Do not let participation depend on the size of the healthcare provider you choose. And the freedom of form has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u92	I would like to stress the need to reduce the administrative burden. I think that in many practices, forms of good conversation between clients on the one hand and healthcare provider on the other are already underway. So we don't have to organize a legal basis for that. And the last argument I mentioned is the following. In the first term, we discussed the issue of the first line. And this contradicts it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u93	We have talked about taking care of the first line when it comes to participation. But this is a form of participation. So there's no client council being organized. This is just a light form of participation, which is form-free. I agree with the Minister when he says that many carers are already doing it, but I would like to say the following. Let us not allow the rights of a patient to be dependent on the arbitrariness of whether or not a healthcare professional does, but let us encourage all healthcare providers to take the initiative and let us give them a boost with this sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u94	And I say this to the proposers. For example, if it's about making an evening consultation possible or about moving, I think the healthcare provider himself would like to have that conversation with his customers. This happens when it is deemed necessary in the organisation. That is why I would like to insist that we do not organise a legal participation obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u96	Mr. Chairman. In his speech, Mr Hijink asked why I do not want to go to a right of consent for client councils when moving. I thought I had already said in the first period that I think consenting to move is too heavy a means. I would therefore like to maintain that right of advice. I believe that the decision to move should lie with the board. I think that an advisory right of the client council is perfectly appropriate. And in order to meet the client's desire for good involvement in a move, I have arranged in Article 3 of the law that clients should be intensively involved in the plans early, for example in plans for relocation. I therefore believe that the desired involvement is well organised. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 36 by Mr Hijink. I would advise against that amendment. This concerns early involvement in a major renovation and in new construction, but also in the selection or appointment of management staff. I would like to point out that the law lays down a minimum of rights and obligations. It is a basis on which further agreements can be made on a tailor-made basis in the participation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u97	This amendment, of course, concerns in particular the distinction that the law makes between long-term and short-term stays. There's something crazy about that. In the present law, for example, in hospitals, client councils would have nothing to say, and should not even give advice, about major decisions such as a move or a large-scale renovation. Then I think about the Slotervaart and the other discussions that we have had here recently, and then I think: then is an advice from a client council in a hospital where there is no long stay perhaps occasionally, but not in a general sense really not too much to ask? Then we will no longer distinguish between long-term stays and short-term stays.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u98	I think that is important, because I think that a long stay does something for the people who stay there for a longer period of time. And that is generally not the case in a hospital. So that's why I'm making that distinction between the long stay and the non-long stay. I think that is important and I want to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u99	But that does mean that clients' councils, especially in hospitals, will not even have the right to advice in very crucial decisions, let alone the right to consent on certain fronts. But they will apply in long-term care. I think that these client councils are not doing enough because you need to organise the involvement of patients and clients in hospitals where there have been enough problems with real estate. So I hope for support from the Chamber. Because I think this is very important, especially given the failure in Slotervaart. There would have been a need for greater participation and greater control of patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u100	I want to keep it at minimum. On top of that, in addition, something can be done. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 36. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's speech. First, I'll go into the two motions. In the motion in part No. 40 the government is invited to agree, in consultation with the Branch Organisations for Health and the representatives of client councils, on variety in participation and on experimental space with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of participation in health care institutions. Again, there is actually the argument that the law provides a minimum regime with room for additional agreements. I think it's mainly up to the parties to decide if they do and if so, how they do it. That's customization. I don't think that should come from the government. That's why I advise against this motion. From the other motion, in part No. 41 is the operative part of the decision: asks the Government, by general measure, to provide that this law does not apply to pgb-funded residential initiatives where the representatives of the residents form the board and on their behalf direct the care. This motion is "judge chamber," as far as I'm concerned. This is a group of clients on which living in the institution has a major impact. For this particular group, I can imagine that participation is important. On the other hand, the direct involvement of parents in the board makes this a more special situation. Then there is the amendment to item No. 38. That's about "no, unless" and "yes, if." We discussed this extensively in the first period. I would suggest that we leave this to the Chamber. The new amendment to item No. 38 is reworded. New is that no longer every institution with multiple locations basically has to have a separate client council for each location. The proposal is now to impose the obligation only on a long-term resident institution or a home care institution. I agree, because there the impact on clients' lives is great and participation close to a client is therefore of extra importance. Then Mrs Dik-Faber talked about the evaluation of the law. I thought I promised that in the first term. I would also like to share with your Chamber interim progress and views on how this law is going to be applied in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u101	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his positive assessment of the amendment I tabled together with a number of other groups. My question about the evaluation of the law was on the two specific issues of mental care and malnutrition in the care sector, in the care sector or in the care sector. Are these two elements included in the evaluation of the law? I ask this because the Chamber has talked a lot about this and has also devoted separate debates to it. Clients' councils have no right of assent on this point, but advisory rights. It may well work sufficiently in practice, but it may not. I can't judge that enough right now. Hence my question as to whether this can be taken into account in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u102	Could you give me a moment to consider Mr Kerstens' motion for a resolution. It is about collecting the information needed to keep the finger on the wrist. So I'd like to come back to that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2. 37 of Mr Slootweg. It's about legal regulation of the division of labour between client councils. I've been puzzling about that a little bit. The amendment seeks to regulate, by excluding other client councils, that there is always only one client council on a particular subject. That seems to be the charm of simplicity, but I'm afraid that in practice it can lead to difficult, perhaps even unworkable situations. Let me give you the example of an institution that is financially hard and intends to reject a location. Then who's going to talk about the plan? Is that the central client council that is considering the choices to cut back, or the local client council of the locations involved? For example, there are several examples to come up with. Of course, there can also be conflicting interests. My suggestion would be: let us make good agreements about this in the institution so that everyone can say their piece. That is why I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u103	I do not understand very well the blockade the Minister sees. I believe that this is also a point in the current law. Then you also have conflicting interests. In any case, this bill indicates a direction. The Minister gives a financial example, but what this amendment wants to do in principle is to assume that there is something local, and when there is something that really affects everyone, you do it centrally. In the Minister's example, it seems to me that this is rather the central council, because it is something that really concerns the whole organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u104	The legislative proposal now provides for the division of powers between the central client council and local client councils to be laid down in the participation scheme. To be honest, I find that much more practical than writing down in the law that it belongs to central or local. I would argue that it should be left to the way in which it is now written in the legislative proposal, i.e. by organizing in the co-determination system the job definition of central and decentralised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u105	Then the problem remains that the division of powers and the controversy that may arise remains in the current text, because it can be dealt with by both a central and a decentralised council. Then that doesn't have to be divided. In that sense, I think a little direction is wiser.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u106	I believe that this direction can best be given in the participation regime. This gives management and client councils a good tool to agree on the division of tasks. Then Mr Slootweg asked a question about keeping the finger on the wrist when calling for legal assistance. I will. I'm curious how that goes in practice. I shall come back to that in a moment on the basis of an amendment tabled by Mr Stoffer. I now come to the amendments tabled by the SGP, at least with the SGP as its first signatory. First of all, the amendment on item No. 22, the replacement of Amendment No 22, the replacement of Amendment No 22, the replacement of Amendment No 22, the replacement of Amendment No 22, the replacement of amendment No 22, the replacement of This concerns the limitation of the course of justice to the Entrepreneurship Chamber alone. Indeed, the bill still has WMZC 2018 in its title. Luckily, between the first and the second term, there was a little time. We have heard from the Court of Justice that a simple procedure through the Enterprise Chamber is possible. I let you know by letter. That is why I give the Court's opinion to the amendment to item No. 22. Then there is the amendment to item No. 24, which was submitted by SGP and the PvdA, which states that the Client Council wishes to refuse consent, must first consult with the institution. What is the Court's opinion on that amendment? It is logical that a client council that intends to withhold its consent to a proposed decision of an institution should first exchange views with the institution on this matter. The institution and the client council can make excellent agreements about this in the participation scheme. I do not know how necessary it is to include it in the law, even from the point of view of regulatory pressure, but in substance this fits as such into the objectives of the bill, namely to give a stronger position to the client council. For that reason, judge Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 25. I'd like to say Judgement Room. This amendment concerns the replacement consent of the Committee on Trust for serious reasons rather than serious organisational or corporate social reasons. The legislative proposal first examines whether the client council acted unfairly in refusing the institution. The confidence committee can also take health and safety aspects, for example, because the test of the confidence committee consists of two parts: unreasonableness and those business-economic, company-social or company-organising reasons. I think it is important to take this double in the assessment of the amendment into account, but given the strengthening of the client position on the one hand and sufficient possibilities to prevent unreasonable judgements from the client council on the other, I think, considering everything, leaving the opinion on this amendment in part No. 25 to the Chamber here fits perfectly. Then there is the amendment to item No. 32 of the SGP. That's what I'm judging, Room. It provides that an institution will only have to compensate for the costs incurred in the conduct of proceedings if these costs are reasonably necessary and the institution has been informed in advance that such costs are incurred. I do not read in the amendment that there is a preliminary test, but there is an understanding that reasonable costs may be incurred and the institution has been informed in advance. So on the amendment to item No. Thirty-two, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 33. If I have noted correctly, that replaces the amendments to the item Nos. 17, 26 and 28. The amendment leaves intact the main rule that an institution has an obligation to set up a client council with more than 10 care providers. However, it offers a relaxation for the first line. I can imagine that from the point of view of the administrative burden. That is why I propose that the opinion on the Amendment No 1 be taken into account. 33 to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u107	I think the first thing I thought was that the amendment would be discouraged. I do have a question about that. The cabinet's proposal means that a client council should be set up with 10 care providers. Now comes the SGP with a limit of 25. Well, there's a difference. If an amendment had been tabled setting the limit at 50, would it have been given a ruling, Chamber? This is, after all, a reduction in the administrative burden. So I'm a little lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u108	I can imagine. It is actually a bit of the debate you have just had with Mr Stoffer. It's an arbitrary border. By raising that limit from 10 to 25, you offer an extra space for especially the first line. Once again, that is an extension to what we have discussed here in the first term. But I have heard from the Chamber, in fact from all sides, the question whether it is necessary to sit on that 10 and whether that limit can not be raised a bit. There is a number of 50, where would be connected to the WOR. The number of 25 is also mentioned. That's a choice. This amendment establishes a limit of 25. I think I can agree with that choice. This means that primary care will be largely exempted from the establishment of a client council. That's arbitrary. There's no more science behind it than this. Mrs Ellemeet has asked for a response to the statement 'good care close to people'. She asked if loving care is the starting point. I believe that this should always be the starting point in the discussions we are having here about care close to people. Loving care is a beautiful concept to me. Mr. Chairman. In Mrs De Vries' speech, it was the amendment on item No. 34. That's gonna get judgment, Room. It lowers the threshold for setting up a client council. The voluntary Client Council may therefore grant only a limited part of the rights of the Wmcz. Finally, Mr Kerstens' motion on item No. 42. I have a bit of a problem with the following, I say in the direction of Mr Kerstens. If we have to ask for all kinds of additional information, it will lead to a great administrative burden. When I ask for data for the years to come, perhaps it is also on the subjects mentioned earlier by Mrs Dik-Faber that I can organise in a practical way, without leading to an enormous administrative burden, I tend to leave this motion to the opinion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u109	I wouldn't want to suppress the Minister's tendency. In response to Mr Slootweg's question, I have also indicated that I am not talking about setting up a new administrative circus. The elements I mentioned there are already being delivered. I fully trust that the inspection and the Minister will be able to share this information with the Chamber in a convenient manner, without creating an additional administrative burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u110	If there is a careful look at what is going on and if you can do it in a bit of a practical way, that could also be something that develops over a number of years, then I can agree with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u111	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u112	Good. Then I have dealt with the various motions and amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u113	There is one more question for you from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u114	It is about what Mrs De Vries has just pointed out: the Minister's ability to lay down exceptions to general administrative measures for organisations to which this law does not apply. I was wondering if the Minister was planning to put those AMVBs in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u115	We have already discussed this in the first period. I can now also include the second-term information in the AMvB. I'll do that. Then we can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u116	Mrs. Bergkamp, do you have another afterburner?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u117	I had one more question. I had put it to Mr Stoffer, but of course he has no chance of responding to it. It is about the SGP's amendment on borders. My question was: does that include community nursing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u118	It is primarily up to the Minister to respond. But I had indeed imagined it so that this subject could come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u119	I was also asked to clarify this. If we're gonna exclude the neighborhood care, we're gonna have to do it at the AMvB. We can discuss it then. I suggest we take it with us in that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u120	Mr. Stoffer, do you have any comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u121	May I make a brief interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u123	Then I hope to respond to Mrs Bergkamp's question. I took a look at it. We left it open on purpose. It's up to the government. It needs to be settled at AMvB. But we can well imagine having a client council there. I am curious to see how the Minister looks at this, but he has just said something about it, so forget it. Now my real interruption, Mr. Chairman. I indicated earlier that we were taking a critical approach here, but that we took a step over that threshold. It has taken some effort, but we are incredibly grateful that the Minister has judged our amendments in this way. So it's actually not a question, but it's a comment. We will wholeheartedly agree with what is going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u124	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the second term of the debate on the Corporate Care Institutions Act 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-20.u125	There will be a vote on the motions next Tuesday.
