ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the state of play on the commitment to the policy of municipalities in the event of requests for recovery of aircraft wrecks from the Second World War. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The salvage of aircraft wrecks from the Second World War with missing pilots and crew members is a matter of honor. Survivors would like aircraft wrecks to be dug up so that their family members, even though they didn't even know themselves, can be identified and reburied. In recent months, colleagues Van der Molen and Van Haga and I have had a lot of contact with the Air War Study Group 1939-1945, very involved volunteers who have been researching where these aircraft wrecks are located for years. They have discovered that there are still some 30 to 50 which can be recovered and which may contain remains of missing crew members. At present, survivors or interested parties can apply to the municipalities, but it is sometimes a difficult consideration to proceed to recovery, not least because of the costs. And we would like to remove that threshold. As a tribute to the pilots and crew members who gave their lives during the war for our freedom and to do justice to the wishes of relatives, I hereby, on behalf of colleagues Van der Molen and Van Haga, submit a motion to arrive at a national mountain programme to save the aircraft wrecks from World War II. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the findings of the Study Group Air War 1939-1945 indicate that there are 30 to 50 aircraft wrecks from World War II in the Netherlands and its territorial waters which may contain the remains of missing pilots and crew members;]] [[whereas 75 years of liberation will be celebrated in 2020 and a fierce battle has been waged for this liberation;]] [[also considering that it is a matter of honour to pay the last tribute to the missing persons and to honour the desire of their relatives to identify and bury them;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the Air Force Storage Office, to establish a national mountain programme;]] [[Invites the Government to supplement fully the cost to municipalities for the disposal from the Municipal Fund, which already includes a reservation for the recovery of aircraft wrecks;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Budgetary Board of the details of its work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Graaf, Van der Molen and Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32156-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Being a Member of Parliament is a very honourable responsibility. It is also very honorable that as a Member of Parliament you are also allowed to represent a number of topics that affect a lot of people. Such a subject is now on the agenda: the storage of aircraft wrecks from World War II. Together with colleague Van Haga of the VVD and colleague Van der Graaf of the Christian Union, I have been studying this problem for some people over the past few months. There are relatives who would very much like to know where family members who died in the Second World War are. They want clarity. They want there to be a place where they can go if that's possible. As Mrs Van der Graaf said, even though they may not have known their ancestors, they always feel that involvement. The CDA Group also feels this commitment to this issue. These are people who may still be in those plane wrecks and who fought for our freedom. If we are celebrating in 2020 that we can live in freedom for 75 years, it is a matter of honour to see whether we can now make a national-driven start to recover those last wrecks that are still present in our soil and perhaps at the bottom of, for example, the IJsselmeer. That is why I wholeheartedly support the motion tabled by Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union, also on behalf of VVD and CDA, to work on this for the first time also nationally, in cooperation with the municipalities, and to put aside the financial argument that municipalities are struggling with. I also very much hope that if the Minister brings the details to the Chamber after the summer, she will also be able to indicate that this cooperation with municipalities has been the guiding principle and has been successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you to Mr Van der Molen. Finally, Mr Van Haga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 75 years ago, young soldiers fought for our freedom. Many of them even made the ultimate sacrifice and were killed during the fight. No less than 2,000 aircraft that were shot down in World War II are still in the Dutch fields or in the water. In almost 400 of these aircraft wrecks there are remains of these heroes. There are next of kin who plow over the fields and sail over the IJsselmeer with boats to commemorate these people. In about 30 of these aircraft wrecks, the situation is poignant, because there are relatives who ask for their families to be recovered and often get zero on the shelf. Not out of unwillingness, but because the general circular that has been rigged for about 2,000 aircraft wrecks is not entirely sufficient for a limited number of cases. I cannot fail to stress how grateful we should be to these heroes who died for our freedom. It is therefore a good thing that we are going to make an exception for about 30 specific aircraft wrecks, so that they can be recovered and the crew reburied. Money has already been set aside in the Municipal Fund for aircraft storage, and there is enough room to rearrange it a little, so that this exception can be made. Thank you also to our Minister for her constructive attitude on this issue. It's our moral duty to these heroes. I am therefore extremely proud to have been able to put my name on behalf of the VVD, together with Mr Van der Molen, under the motion tabled by Mr Van der Graaf. We're hoping for a happy ending. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-9.u6	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the speakers who have just spoken in fine words on this issue. I am sympathetic to that. It is, but the authors of the motion know this too, a change of standing policy, because these wrecks are actually seen as a war tomb in accordance with international treaties and therefore, in principle, left untouched. But I think it is a beautiful and very respectful gesture with the proposers towards the families of those who have indeed made the highest sacrifice for our freedom. In response to the motion, if it is adopted in this way, together with the parties involved, and that is also the Ministry of Defence and the VNG, I will set up a steering committee for the development of a programme in which we will look closely at the feasibility, phaseling, and indeed the definition of this approach. I think, as far as we can see now, that promising salvages will often be on land, but indeed, the IJsselmeer is also possible in the picture. But I think it's about the deal we're making about a process we're starting. Of course, that process involves care. The salvage of an aircraft wreck I've been informed about it a municipality costs on average half a million. We're talking about about about 30 wrecks that we could do this for. So those costs of about 4.5 will be on top of that. There will be costs for the Empire, for the salvage department, for the Defense Department. BZK will incur costs in coordination. But I see it as a joint programme, for which we will have to find funding together. There is a scheme whereby municipalities can receive a contribution of 70% to the costs they incur through the Municipal Fund. That is the so-called bomb regulation, which applies when there is a suspicion of the presence of explosives. For the municipal share in the disposal of the wrecks, I would like to see whether this can indeed be incorporated into the existing financial regulation in the Municipal Fund, as the motion also states. But, of course, I will have to do so in close consultation with the VNG. In short, Mr President, a fine gesture, and I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-9.u8	The motion in part No. 93 gets judgment, Room. Which brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-9.u9	The motion will be put to the vote tonight. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
