ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let us now turn to the questions to Mr Özdil's Minister on behalf of GroenLinks about the message that educational institutions are writing out students too early. Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	Suppose you're an MBO student, you're in the final phase of your education, you're just finishing your internship and then graduating neatly on the expected graduation date. But a few months later, you get a fine of hundreds of euros. Why? Your school seems to have secretly written you out before, while you were still just internship. Radar, on NPO Radio 1, reported that it is happening to many and many students. It's the reverse world. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that this situation is unfair, undesirable and unacceptable? Mbo students aren't supposed to be dairy cows from schools. What's the Minister gonna do to make sure this doesn't happen again? Mr. Chairman. In higher education, the rules are such that a student can only graduate after he or she has obtained all the points, and then, in consultation with the university, stings a graduation certificate. Is it true that this is different in the MBO, so that a school can unilaterally prick and change a graduation date? If so, what will the Minister do to change that? If not, what will the Minister do to enforce the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to Mr Özdil for his questions. We know that the case that gives rise to these questions has fortunately been resolved. The media has been very helpful in this respect. It is extremely unfortunate that such a situation has occurred, starting with the person concerned, but also with regard to the subject we are discussing here. This is not a new topic. In December, you received an extensive letter from my colleague, who I am replacing here. It has announced a whole package of measures on the basis of a study report on how to bring down the fines. There was a connection to the moment of writing out, causing undesirable situations. We came to the conclusion, also in that reaction, that they occurred especially at the MBO. Why do these situations occur at the MBO? There is indeed a difference in the moment of unsubscription. That didn't work out well for everyone. It is thought that the MBO will be issued on the date of the graduation, but will be issued from the first day of the month following the so-called diploma date. That is the date on which the Examination Board determines that someone has graduated. There is therefore a whole package of measures, from which I can achieve one, also in view of the time: communication needs to be much better and more precise. The example of this weekend shows that this is still not doing enough. We will continue to insist, also in the direction of the MBO Council, that MBO programmes communicate this in a good way, so that this is also well known to this category of students. Because any situation where someone is unintentionally the victim, we want to avoid each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	I thank the Minister for his reply. I'm very glad he shares our concerns and says that every situation is too many. We are dealing with an educational institution that unilaterally sets or changes a date, which the student only finds out much later. The Minister is therefore quite right to say that information can be much better. Only, I would like to see that we also clearly and strictly frame this towards the MBO institutions. My follow-up question is therefore whether the Minister is prepared to ensure that this better communication from the MBO institutions takes place in this way, that the MBO or educational institutions send a letter at all six weeks in advance to the student stating clearly what the graduation date is, what the student still has to arrange to graduate and what the student should do if he or she does not agree with the graduation date, so that it does not remain in a non-binding call but that the Minister is proactively committed to framing it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	The consultation with the MBO Council and behind it the MBO training courses have already taken place following the letter sent in December. The MBO Council therefore also intends to continue to disseminate this letter to all institutions and through them to the students. So I'll take your suggestions with me. Maybe they'll get a place in the final letter. In addition, it is important to point out that at the moment the law amending the BES Act is in the First Chamber, in which measures are taken to further reduce the number of OB fines. We're preparing a novelle right now. We hope that all this will have reached the House of Representatives before the summer, so that all other obstacles that can lead to fines for students you may wonder if they are reasonable and proportionate can also be reduced. I am not going to mention them all here, but to some extent they are the result of amendments tabled to that law in this Chamber. So we hope to move forward very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	I am pleased that the Minister is going to take my proposals with him in his consultation. I would ask him to inform the Chamber by letter of how this consultation is going to be conducted and when it will be concluded. We all have hope, but it shouldn't be just hope. We all have a responsibility here to ensure that this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	I admit that the novelle sent will be accompanied by an accompanying letter which will also address the questions that have been asked here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Özdil. Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This issue is not entirely new. Indeed, in December, we received a letter from Minister Van Engelshoven about this in which she notes that MBOs do not always communicate carefully on this issue and that there is some delay in the administrative processes at DUO because a change in the Basic Register of Education by DUO is not automatically passed on to students. The minister just said he'd come up with a novelle. I think that is also part of this to increase the fines to €150 per half month as of 1 January 2019. If we see that it was messy six months ago and things are still messy, then my question is whether it is not logical to postpone that intention to increase the fines or even to abandon them completely because it turns out that the institutions themselves and DUO still do not have their business together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	Our intention is precisely to collect a fine per half month for the first two half months of the financial year and to reduce the fine. After the third month it indeed goes to €150. Whatever we intend to do, you will find that in the novelle too.... is to ensure that students have longer time to stop their travel documents. We are going to increase the deadline from five working days to ten calendar days. So that is a doubling of the time that has now been given for it. So it's a wide range of measures that we hope will help students. This does not alter the fact that the students themselves have to stay focused on the information that is coming to them, and this also applies to the institutions and the DUO who also have a responsibility in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I thank the Minister. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
