ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the Act adjusting indexation own contribution rent allowance and the expiry of the maximum income limits. There are seven speakers from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Koerhuis of the VVD. He signed up for five minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. It may be that you're going to work more or earn more and get worse. One of the main causes of this problem is the rent allowance. If you're a carpenter or plumber who's going to work a little more or make a little more money, you can lose your entire rent allowance of €130 per month if you're unlucky. That's a threshold for getting more work or looking for another job. 'Cause why would you go to work more or find another job and then go backwards? The VVD doesn't think that's fair. That's what we want to solve today, by making sure you don't lose the whole rent allowance all at once if you start working a little more or earning a little more. The VVD thinks that's a good thing. Mr. Chairman. The supplement system has a lot of problems. If your annual income is just above the income limit of the rent allowance and you only find out at the end of the year, you have to pay back a high amount of money. Of course, people have their own responsibility here, but we also have to put our own hands into it. The VVD is pleased that today we can at least solve one of the problems of the surcharge system. As a baker, butcher or auto mechanic, if you're going to work a little more or make a little more money, you're just gonna keep your rent allowance straight, instead of losing it at once. This way, we remove the threshold to work more or to find another job and you can accept that wage increase without any problems. Now that the economy is attracting, that is particularly important. We need everyone and this makes it extra attractive to get to work. In addition, payment problems are more frequently avoided. I am sure that both the number of refunds and the level of refunds will fall sharply. The VVD is therefore pleased with this bill. That's not the only thing this bill deals with. The so-called 'kan' clause is also being abolished. Now the development of the rental allowance is sometimes linked to the assistance and sometimes to the rental price. That makes it a complicated and crazy system. Of course, the rental allowance is not intended to compensate for the assistance. The VVD is pleased that with this law we can simplify this system and let go of the link between the rental allowance and the assistance. Today we are taking an important step in that direction. But thinking doesn't stand still. There are other ways of making this system simpler. For example, how does the Minister look at letting go of the link between the rent payment and the rent so that only the income is looked at to determine the rent payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	There's a question for you from Mrs. Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yes, an enlightening question. You say the system should be simpler. You are happy with something that makes the system a bit more difficult, namely it does not lose all your rent allowance at once. We're happy about that, too. But can you explain why you are so strongly in favour of the expiry of the can-determine clause? For people with a slightly lower income, this can have really negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	The VVD is for making the system easier. One part to make it easier is to let go of that difficult thing, that can-determine, and to abolish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	But what if people go backwards? Then what is your solution? "Simpler" is of course very beautiful, but not if you already have little to spend and this makes it worse. What would your solution be for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's a "if" question. If I continue with my speech, you will see that people do not go backwards. People are getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	Please continue your speech. Oh, Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party also has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	I am not at all opposed to simplification in itself. My question is as follows. Do tenants now look at the indexing and how it works every year? Does it make any sense to them? That seems to be what the VVD is saying. I don't think that's the case; they just look at what they get net in the month of rent payments every year. That's less because of this part of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	No, no. If I may continue my argument: tenants are just going to get more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u12	Yeah, that sounds pretty weedy to me. It would be something if the rents would rise in ten years' time, the rents would be much higher than they are now, and you would freeze the rent payment completely. But because of this part of the law, which is just a cut, tenants get less than if this law had not been introduced. The question is: why don't you simplify without cutting down on the tenants? It's possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u13	We don't cut renters. Tenants are just getting ahead of themselves. If I may continue, it will be clear why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. I am proud of this good reform of the rent allowance, but this good reform has become a reality, and now it is being abused by left-wing parties once again to turn people into fools. As I mentioned earlier in this Chamber and as the CPB has now calculated, it appears that the rent surcharge of an average of €213.50 per tenant per month this year is going to continue to rise by €6 instead of €6.80 per tenant per month in the coming years. Also, the total expenditure on rent payments continues to rise by almost EUR 1 billion, Mr Nijboer. In addition, we are taking many other measures in the coalition agreement...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u16	But after your invitation to Mrs Beckerman, I will give her the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u17	You have little lies and big lies, and of course you have statistics. You say that everyone is improving, but you know that yesterday the figures of the CBS were published. Over the past six years, the average rent has increased by 18.5%. Then you can say that you get a little more rent allowance, but people just have to pay this. Do you agree with me? And do you agree with me that we can make the rent payment easier, but that you have to do something about the rents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u18	If you are going to broaden the debate, you have to go all the way. Then the tenants just go net ahead. If I'm allowed to go wider: tenants benefit from the lower income tax. We're increasing the childcare allowance. We're increasing child support. We're increasing the care allowance. If you pull it wider, pull it all the way wide. In the purchasing power cards to which you refer, tenants are just getting ahead of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u19	In the purchasing power picture we see that small groups are not improving and that there is a division due to tenants making much less progress than other groups. You're so in favour of simplification. We can simply do something about it, namely intervene in the rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u20	But now you've contradicted yourself. You're shouting that tenants are going backwards, and now you're saying tenants are getting better. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you. Please continue your speech. We're doing interruptions in two, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u22	As I said, we are taking a lot of other measures in the coalition agreement, so that everyone is just getting better, including you. Let's stop thinking about people, and just say honestly: you're gonna feel better too. Mr. Chairman. I've gone into politics to give people a chance at education and work, to give back opportunities that I've gotten myself. Today is a beautiful day at the housing market. With this bill, we will work again more wages and give people more opportunities for work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks. He signed up for 15 minutes. No, for ten minutes, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u24	Ten minutes, and it's gonna work, Mr. Chairman. We have before us a government bill on the adjustment of the own contribution to the rent payment and the expiry of the maximum income limits. In my contribution, I will deal with both elements of the legislative proposal, starting with the deletion of the so-called 'kan' clause. In the coalition agreement, the coalition parties agreed that the rent allowance should be simpler. And, yes, who could be against that, I see the minister thinking. The cabinet states that this proposal will also simplify the implementation of the rent allowance, but forget to mention that simplification means that the most vulnerable people in our society, the people with the lowest incomes, will pay the bill for this simplification. It is clear that GroenLinks does not think this is a good idea. It is the people who are already struggling and who are happy every month that they can pay their rent at all that are getting worse financially. Yesterday, the new figures from the Central Planning Office showed that rents have risen significantly again this year. Over the last six years, average rentals have increased by 18.5%, significantly more than the increase in consumer prices. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what she is going to do to prevent this sharp increase from continuing in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mrs Van Eijs, D66, has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr Smeulders refers to the increase in rents. I will not dispute the figures of the CBS, but we are, of course, talking today about the regulated rent. Those aren't the same numbers you call them. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u27	The regulated rent is part of the total rental figures. Those rents do rise less fast, but there is also a big increase in that. And you also know that, given the position of the corporations and the measures taken by the cabinet, with both the landlord levy and the ATAD, it is quite reasonable that these prices should continue to rise in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u28	But the housing corporations themselves have also indicated that they attach great importance to affordability. They also strive for a rent that increases much less. That's what today is about: the regulated rent. That is what we should be looking at today. Does Mr Smeulders agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u29	I certainly agree that we should look in particular at the rent of housing corporations. All you can see is that it's gone up over the past few years. I think you've made a lot of work visits in this recess, as have I, and you've also spoken to corporations. They are deeply concerned by all the measures imposed on them by the Cabinet, whether they can stand for affordable rents in the coming years, especially if you combine it with, for example, large sustainability statements, which we are both in favour of, which also represent a substantial part of the corporate board.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u30	I am lost for a moment when I hear that this makes the situation of the tenants worse. You're referring to yesterday's numbers showing that the rents have risen. That's true. However, the change in the law that is taking place makes sure that there is a specific link to the increase in those rents and not to other effects that then end up in the rent surcharge. Why are you saying this is gonna make things worse? This makes a much better connection between the increase in rents and the rent surcharge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u31	It's actually two things. The rents have increased in recent years. That's an undesirable situation. My main point is that especially the most vulnerable tenants are getting worse because of the proposal now before us, because of this simplification. Those are people for whom every euro is one. I'd like to ask a question back to Mr. Ronnes of the CDA. Why is the CDA even for this bill? Why should the most vulnerable tenants pay for simplification?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u32	It just doesn't make any sense what you're saying. This bill establishes a clear link between the increase in rents and the rent surcharge. The other social effects are no longer compensated by an indexation of the rent payment, but you will see them in the other income figures, in the total income figures as Mr Koerhuis has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u33	Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u34	I would like to go further on this point in my speech. Tenants who receive the rent payment always pay part of the rent itself, a kind of own contribution. As income increases, this own contribution increases, and that is also fair. This contribution shall be indexed annually by either the percentage of net assistance development or the growth rate of rental price development. As a result of the kan- determination is always chosen for the lowest and thus the most favourable percentage for the tenant of the two. In recent years, the most favourable rate has generally been the percentage of net assistance development. This is precisely to ensure that the lowest incomes are compensated for lagging behind in income trends. That is also fair, because whether or not your household can pay a higher contribution depends above all on the development of income and not on the evolution of the rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u35	It's a lot of difficult percentages and a lot of words. Would Mr Smeulders simply look into the budget and see expenditure on the rent supplement increase by 1 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u36	The point of this debate is that the cabinet, with the coalition, is proposing simplification in the coalition agreement. This is completely independent of indexing the rent payment and everything that happens more because life just becomes more expensive. You propose that simplification be carried out. The smallest incomes feel that simplification the most. Why do you do that as a coalition party? Why are you making the smallest incomes pay for simplification, which you are so in favour of? The deletion of that kan-determine always indexes the base rent, and thus the own contribution to the rental surcharge, with the growth rate of the rent development. If this percentage is higher than the percentage of net assistance development, the own contribution increases more rapidly than would be the case with the can-determine and also harder than incomes. Under the heading "Private housing', this is a negative income effect for the most vulnerable households that can eventually reach €100 less rent payment per year. You also read that in the letter from Aedes, the dome of housing corporations, just to scatter some figures. The Minister writes in her written reply that this bill is not meant to be austerity. It refers to the fact that this proposal makes more money available for the rent allowance. However, the Minister ignores the point that money is being removed from the most vulnerable group of recipients of the rent allowance. In the written reply, the Minister further states that the money involved is relatively small. That is perhaps the case, according to the estimates, for the years to come. But for people who are already struggling every month to make ends meet, to pay the rent, every euro is one, especially now with the upcoming VAT increase, which is going to make groceries even more expensive, all kinds of things coming at low-income people. For the people that can really be the difference between just and just not able to pay a birthday present for a family member. Therefore, once again the question to the Minister whether she can guarantee that the purchasing power of low-income tenants will not deteriorate as a result of this change of law. That is a really important point for us. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that my group has not so far been convinced by the Minister's arguments that this is "only" about simplification and not a burden shift to the detriment of the lowest incomes. We will therefore also wholeheartedly support Mr Nijboer's and Mr Beckerman's amendment to maintain the possibility clause. Mr. Chairman. The Minister is still in discussion with interested parties about further changes in the system of the rent allowance. Could the Minister please tell us a little bit more about that? Which directions are discussed? Could the Minister perhaps promise us that the simplifications that we can still see will not make it worse for those for whom the rent allowance is of the utmost importance to pay their rent every month? And we are curious whether the Minister sees opportunities to give sustainability of housing, an important topic in this Chamber, a place in this new system by looking much more at the total housing costs rather than just the rent. GroenLinks believes that this offers opportunities for the energy transition, where the bill should not lie with the lowest incomes. Then the second part of the bill. I can be a lot shorter about that. It is proposed that the maximum income limits should be abolished. My group fully supports this proposal because the rent payment on a longer income path can be reduced. This gradual reduction will prevent the poverty trap that is now in the system. Someone who earns €1 too much will not lose the right to the rent allowance in the future and that is only very good. So much for my first term. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV. He signed up for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u38	I'm not gonna finish that. Mr. Chairman. A legislative proposal containing two measures: the deletion of the so-called "kan" clause and the removal of the maximum income limits. These are two measures which have an impact on the rent payment and, above all, on its level. The deletion of the "can" clause will lead to a deterioration of tenants and the removal of the maximum income limit will improve certain tenants. The first question is: why did the Minister choose to put both these measures into one proposal? Has the removal of the maximum income limits perhaps been added to the proposal, so that the negative consequences of the deletion of the possibility would seem less serious? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The removal of the maximum income limits is, of course, a good plan. Aedes and the House Union are also enthusiastic about this. It prevents tenants who, due to a small increase in income, are just above that maximum income limit, even if it is only a single euro, from losing their full rent payment. After all, how contradictory is it if tenants actually decline because of the increase in income? How many households are we talking about here? The Minister indicated that this measure would entitle some 115 000 additional households to rent payments. That is a good prospect for them, but what about the 77 000 rent recipients, which the Minister also mentions, who had to pay back their full rent payment afterwards because they were not entitled to it because of their excessive income? That number's already in the 115,000? Can they apply for a rent allowance again? Mr. Chairman. Of course that all sounds nice and nice and of course it is, don't get me wrong. But for those for whom the removal of maximum income limits has no effect, this simply means an increase in the burden as a result of the deletion of the kan provision. This provision currently ensures that if the development of assistance is lagging behind the development of rental prices, this will be offset by a lower increase in the own contribution to the rent payment. Thus, by deleting this provision, only the average rent increase will be taken into account in future. And as a result, the own contribution will increase. Just comes down to it: under the line tenants are going to pay more for their home. But how much, exactly? The Centraal Planbureau has calculated that the rent allowance will increase by an average of €0.80 per month. The Minister also explicitly mentions this calculation in her explanatory statement. The same statement states that the removal of the candle provision should yield the Treasury 7 million in 2019, rising to 34 million in 2012. And I don't understand. Because the coalition agreement says that the removal of the kan clause will bring much more: from 35 million in 2019 up to 99 million in 2021. What's the deal now? What amounts are right? More importantly, the question is how many tenants will decline monthly. Is that more than the legislative proposal itself initially shows? The Housing Association has calculated that this measure will allow tenants to receive less rent allowance in 2022 annually up to €94. And that's a lot of money. Is this calculation correct? Can the Minister respond to this? Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is: tenants are always the victims. Since the Rutte-II cabinet, rents in the corporation sector have increased by 17%. Everything's getting more expensive. The energy bill also goes up and up, not just from tenants, but from everyone. Yesterday it became clear that households will lose €150 more next year, €150 more in energy taxes, i.e. purely tax. For that money, you don't have a kilowatt-hour power and you don't have a tub of gas yet. A higher energy tax in an attempt to finance the energy transition that is actually not to be financed. By 2050 all 2.1 million social housing units must be climate-neutral. The cost of this is inconceivable, but it will be huge. Aedes, the dome of housing corporations, has calculated that this will cost a total of 108 billion. 108 billion, that's an amount to get dizzy from, that's almost €52,000 per house. Who's gonna pay for that? Eventually, of course, the tenants. Aedes also warns that the bill will end up with the tenants. And as if all this were not enough, the Minister would like to delete the candle clause. Don't do it, stop it, stop squeezing the tenants. More and more tenants are no longer able to bear the monthly burden, already one million households are living in energy poverty. And if it's up to this cabinet, it's only gonna get worse in the next few years. By deleting the kan-determination, the tenants are caught for the umpteenth time. When is the minister gonna pay back for the tenants? Mr. Chairman. That is now the state of housing in a nutshell. That means: the charges go up and the housing market is a mess. As far as the housing market is concerned, we already know this minister as someone who talks a lot, talks a lot and meets a lot. But, yes, the construction of new homes is lagging behind. What are we gonna do? Yeah, we're gonna have to speed things up, the Minister says. That's all it is. Just sit back, do nothing, that's all. A production of 75,000 homes per year has been agreed in the Housing Agenda. The NVM, where I was visiting recently, says that even 85,000 homes are needed per year, but we are definitely not going to make these numbers. And then, with regard to the rising burden, in this case of the tenants, the Minister actually does the same. Because a year ago she said: if there are any problems for that group, the tenants, in terms of purchasing power, then my colleague Koolmees should look at that. That's easy: one D66 minister shifts it off to the other D66 minister. D66s to each other! What are we supposed to expect from that? Does the Minister still support this ruling? If so, when and how will her fellow minister compensate the tenants? We like to hear it. Meanwhile, the rent increases continue. In fact, this year's rents are rising faster than last year's and affordability is really under pressure. The House Union is also concerned about this: 0.5 million renting households can barely make ends meet. It is therefore time for rent reduction, but yes, the Minister does not want it, and this Chamber does not want it. PVV-motions that ask the government to do something for the tenants, if only something, such as lowering the rents, are rejected time and time again. It's a bit like disgruntling; I can't think of anything else. But I can assure you, the PVV will continue to stand up for the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The government agreement states that the rent payment over a longer income path is reduced and the own contribution in the rent payment is indexed with the rent increase. To this end, the so-called "can' provision in the rent allowance is deleted. In addition, we implement possible simplifications of the rent allowance. With this law, the cabinet is actually doing exactly what is in the coalition agreement. Now different parties and interest groups come up with different calculations of the size of the amount paid by the rental surcharge recipients all by themselves. Can the Minister now give us absolute clarity about this? Are the figures mentioned by the Minister still valid? Why aren't the numbers that others call correct? The CDA welcomes the abolition of the automatic compensation of the rent payment for the development of the remaining assistance. This removes the transfer of social security measures from the scheme in the rent allowance. This ensures greater transparency of the rent payment and a clear relationship with the rental policy. The adjustment of the own contribution should not be seen as an isolated measure. The deletion of the possibility clause is part of a broader package of measures under the government agreement, including changes in income tax. Mr President, I see someone on the interrupting microphone...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u41	And you can probably judge for yourself whether it's at this point, so I'll give Mr. Nijboer of the Labour Party the floor right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u42	Of course, you always have to look at everything in total packages, especially when you look at purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u43	Right!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u44	But why, in view of the whole package of everything, is there consciously chosen that tenants are up 0.8% and buyers 1.4%? The VVD was proud, because tenants improved, but it would also be an achievement if they got worse with such a growing economy. Why give half to tenants when there are the biggest payment problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr Nijboer is now making some kind of competition that needs to improve the most. That's not the point. The commitment of this cabinet was that it would lay down a balanced package that would make everyone in the Netherlands feel that people are making progress. Instead of "grabbing" each other for those who are making the most progress, I think you should say: this cabinet, this coalition is doing a great job, because at last, people in the Netherlands are finally going to feel that they are making progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u46	I would like to give it to Mr Ronnes, but I am not saying that. If the economy gets better, everyone will notice, just as everyone has noticed in recent years that things have been getting worse. I appeal to you on this measure that affects tenants. It's just a cut on the tenants. They're getting less from this law. If this law hadn't been filed, tenants would have gone ahead on balance. You say: look at the total! Then I refer to the total and say that tenants are put behind buyers and you say: yes, don't look at that; be glad they get some! Among all these figures are the political choices to put tenants at a disadvantage. I don't understand why the CDA supports them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr President, if I may, I would like to respond through you. I'm looking at it on the basis of facts. This bill is a package of two measures. If you look at the multi-annual effects in the figures attached to this proposal, you will see that, on balance, there is a positive result for the rental sector. So I really do not understand where your impression comes from that this would only be a deterioration. Yes, it is true that it can be beneficial or detrimental in the individual situation, but the package that is here will ultimately benefit the rental sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u48	I am pleased that Mr Ronnes acknowledges that it can be detrimental in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u49	Yeah, that's always the case with measures we're taking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u50	That does not always have to be the case, namely when the measures are better for everyone. The cabinet and the coalition are now choosing to take measures that are detrimental to the most vulnerable. Would Mr Ronnes explain why the CDA supports this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yes, I will. If you look at the measures, the package of legislation we are talking about, you will see that if the maximum income limits are removed, there will be an advantage on balance. We very much welcome the fact that people who are in a vulnerable situation and want to earn a euro or get a small raise do not immediately lose their entire rent payment. In this context, this is a very good step for the social rental sector. Yeah, I recognize that there are tiny particles in there that could be detrimental, but if you look at this on balance, it's just a positive story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u52	In my view, we all agree with the expiry of that maximum income limit. If that were a separate legislative proposal, I think the whole Chamber would vote for it, but it is about the possibility. My question is why the CDA supports the deletion of the kan clause in this way, at the expense of the most vulnerable people. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u53	I can tell you that very simply. If you look at this overall package, you will see that this will bring a great advantage. You will see that this is a positive element for the rental sector. This is the result of what is in the coalition agreement. It is also the case that this ensures a more unambiguous understanding of the methods when the rental fee is finally calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u54	A positive story is of course nice. The story would be even more positive without the can-determine. In reply to Mr Smeulder's question, did you say literally: yes, but we do not, because then it becomes more expensive? So it's actually a penny issue after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u55	No. As it stands, of course, it is a total package on which the four coalition parties have agreed in the coalition agreement. Like coalitions, that's giving and taking. Here is a total package of which I conclude, in the end, that it is beneficial for the rental sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u56	So you're saying it's a coalition thing and it's giving and taking. So you've given and you take...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u57	Let's talk each other out. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u58	And you take from the most vulnerable tenants. Moreover, 17% of those with the lowest incomes do not have a positive purchasing power picture at all. You're gonna have to take that now. You say that we didn't really want that, but that's how we agreed in the coalition. Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u59	Partly. I have made one further argument: the deletion of the possibility clause will make implementation easier. That's one. The second element is that you get a more unambiguous relationship between the calculation and the increase in the rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you. Please continue your speech. Oh, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr Ronnes says that the removal of the maximum income limit is positive. We all agree on that. That affects 77.000 households. That is of course very good, but there are still a lot of other households, a lot of other tenants, about whom this has no effect. In the end, they simply go backwards by deleting the candle clause. Then Mr Ronnes can come up with a complete picture and say that we have to look at that total picture, but then I wonder if he ever comes out on the street or talks to tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u62	Many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u63	'Cause the tenants I'm talking to are just complaining. They say, "I'm just going backwards." I just don't come out every month. I just can't. Then my question is, why? Why are you even doing this? Why are you taking those lowest incomes? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u64	You're trying to frame me again that we're taking on the lowest incomes. I am trying to make it clear that with this package of measures, the people in the social housing sector, on the whole, are getting a more positive view and are having a positive impact. And yes, on an individual basis, you can also have people for whom it is detrimental. I recognize that, but according to the figures, that is not the case. That's the first thing. Two. I come out on the street all the time and I see people who rent hugely rise. What's that all about? That's just because there aren't enough houses. That is another subject that we will discuss later. I also look at Mr Nijboer, for example, because the PvdA said two years ago that 100,000 houses had to be built. But they're not here. This cabinet is working hard to realize these homes, so that the rents that are now under pressure are also less under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr Ronnes says that in individual cases tenants can go backwards. That's what this is all about, isn't it? Each tenant looks at his own individual case. An individual tenant has nothing to gain from an overall picture that Mr Ronnes claims looks so rosy? Of the people I'm talking to, the energy bill goes up, the rent goes up, the VAT rate goes up: people just have less left every month. Those are all the individual cases of people getting worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u66	Exactly. And that is why I hope that you will consider how we can deal with this, for example by starting with additional housing, so that we can put that extreme rent increase behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u67	Mr Nijboer, on a subject other than this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u68	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u69	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr Ronnes is not saying now: I hope that we will be able to cope with our cuts in rent payments by building more houses so that the rents go down; that is how we solve it? That's not the CDA's reasoning, is it? Under the terms of the coalition agreement, one half of the measure costs, cut-off, 70 million extra: that is what everyone is for. Satisfaction: 138 million rent allowance. Isn't the rent allowance being cut on balance? That's what the government agreement says, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u71	In my speech, I just asked the Minister to make it clear whether the figures are still correct. I have to say that, on balance, the documents in the proposal are even more advantageous compared to the figure in the coalition agreement. It is therefore a good idea to find out what the good figures are. That's one. On balance, then, it's a positive story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u72	Maybe we'll get a little closer. If, on balance, it turns out that it is a cut-off after all, does Mr Ronnes want to get rid of it? So if it's not just about individual tenants, but that it's, on balance, bad for the tenants? My point would be: one measure goes directly into.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, in three years' time it won't be 70 million. That's pretty weedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u73	No, it's not a austerity measure. This is a total package and I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u74	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you. The CDA has already indicated that, in particular, the part of the expiry of the maximum income limit will ensure that a large number of tenants do not suddenly see the full rent payment disappear and fall into poverty if income increases are limited. That is a good thing. I have seen several examples in my mailbox where, due to a small change in their income, people saw the full rent payment disappear at once. The new set-up will lead to a gradual phasing-out if an income continues to rise by small steps. For example, if someone has a small wage increase, they will not lose their total rent allowance overnight. Finally, I would like to touch on an important issue, namely the appropriate allocation. The Minister writes in the criteria for appropriate allocation: to maintain the current income limits in the rent supplement, related to this bill. That brings us to the question of how things stand with the pinching effect of appropriate allocation. In an earlier consultation at our request, the Minister indicated that he was going to check whether the 5% derogation was sufficient, or whether some more room should be sought, for example by increasing it to 10%. The basic principle of appropriate allocation is good, but customisation requires room for manoeuvre that is not provided by current regulations. I refer to the problem of problem areas, small villages and care homes, as we have mentioned many times before. With regard to problem neighbourhoods, this was shown last Saturday in the article "Ghetto formation in popular districts is lurking" in De Gelderlander. What's the status of this request? Has there been any talk with the cooperatives? And what did that get you? So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u77	This is the usual interruption when Mr Ronnes talks about the pinching effect of appropriate allocation. For the left, then, it is: open the locks and spend money. I'd like another confirmation. Surely it is not the intention that the rent surcharges should increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u78	It's not supposed to open the locks. However, in view of the measures taken in recent years and the pressures on the housing market, we must take account of the difficult practical situations that remain in the country. That's what you see in big neighborhoods. You can also see this in small villages, where there is only a small number of social rentals. I've been arguing for it for a long time. You know that. There have also been motions on it. I hope, therefore, that the Minister will be able to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u79	I used the imagery of the locks to open, but I mean, as you have already recognised, this does not mean that the expenditure on the rent allowance should be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u80	That's not my bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party, who, as almost always, is completely out of his mind. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Politics is about making choices. That's what we talk about every day in this house. Today this choice lies ahead: what do you really think is important in society, what are the big problems? One of the biggest problems right now is living. This is true for buyers, for starters, who cannot find a house, and for tenants, who are on the waiting list for years and who are increasingly difficult to pay for the living expenses. You also see poverty problems. They're most concentrated on tenants. We've gotten papers from the House Union from how many people have payment problems. You can also see that partly because of the mortgage interest deduction tenants vis-à-vis buyers have more and more problems to pay the housing costs. Those rents are rising because there aren't enough homes. Mr Ronnes was right to point that out. The question then is: what do you do as a cabinet if that is going on and things are going very well economically? The country's doing well. It is going well economically and money can be distributed. I am not going to bring up the dividend tax here, but it will be possible to find an extra 0.5 billion for it, because there is enough money. Then what do you choose? Then do you choose to try to solve the problems that exist with living and with its affordability? Or are you making these problems worse? In that light, the PvdA assesses the bill. It has to be said: there are problems with the rent allowance. If you earn a euro more, you can lose your entire rent allowance. Tens of thousands of people have to pay their rent. That's a real problem. A lot has been said about this in recent years. It is just a good thing that the bill resolves that you will not lose your entire rent payment if you earn one euro above the border. It costs money, but the coalition is paying for it. That is a good thing. We support that part. I still have the question as to why the limit for AOWs is just €25 lower than for other groups. If you're gonna simplify, why don't you pull it together? And then not the wrong way, so I say to the VVD, who always wants to make money out of it. No, then it has to go the right way, so AOW'ers have a little more. It's not about big money, either. That's a question for the Minister. But then I come to the other part of the proposal. The public gallery is not richly filled when it comes to a can-determine. You need a whole study to know what that actually means. That is what I noticed in the debate, with questions like "is the indexing of assistance?" and "is the indexation to the housing costs?" And then it's also explained the other way around, because as the housing costs rise harder, your own contribution goes up more and so you get less rent allowance. But in the end, this is what this is about: do people get more or less rent allowance in the wallet? And at what point do they get that? I have just mentioned it in the interruption to Mr Ronnes: there is a kind of assassin being introduced. Each year the rent allowance increases slightly less. That's exactly what I'm saying. I won't say, as the cabinet does, that it's not austerity. It's a cutdown, though. Everything that is proposed in this house in relation to the current laws, everything that is worked out and negative, is a cut-off. So I'm asking the Minister to say this right. This is a structural cut on the rent allowance. If that is not the case, I would ask for an interplay debate with Minister of Finance on budgetary policy. We shouldn't beat around the bush. That's how we meet here. You can all say that the rent supplement increases over the years. Of course it is, because the rents are rising. It would be a good thing if the rents were twice as high in 20 years' time and the rent payment was still at this year's level. But that's not how we judge it. This is, on balance, just a cut on the rent supplement. Minister, come out for that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr. Nijboer is doing it again. He's trying to unravel the bill into tiny particles. He evaluates all those particles on their merits and isolates the other ones. But as I said earlier, the two measures are taken in their entirety, so that they can achieve an overall improvement in the rental sector. Mr. Nijboer, you start with a nice story and say we've been talking about this for years. Yes, the PvdA and years of talking about it! But what are this coalition and this cabinet doing? They come up with proposals that ultimately, in total, improve the situation. Is Mr Nijboer not secretly agreeing with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u84	No, I find 70 million outfits for a certain group and 140 million out of them a deterioration for the tenants. I just said it's a budget cut on balance, and I'm against it. I don't think that's fair. I think that this cabinet puts the tenants behind the buyers when you look at the total plate; because that is the follow-up question. They're not getting half of the buyers and they're already having a harder time. I've already argued that they're having a harder time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u85	What Mr Nijboer is doing is not justified. I think he knows that very well, because he's very good with numbers. He compares 138 million to 70 million. I read out: by 2020, the cut-off of the candle clause is minus 7 million and by 2020, plus 70 million. It is therefore a question of supplementing 70 million in the rental sector and that 70 million is cumulative. You're pretending that $70 million is the total amount. That 138 million is cumulative. So you compare apples to pears and you paint the wrong picture. On balance, we see progress here when we look at the Minister's figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u86	If we do the one-year can-determine, until 2020, and at the same time take it down, I'm your husband. Then that's what we'll do. Then it's 63 million on balance. What I have just tried to make clear is that we are abolishing borders for a certain group. That is what we are doing by 2020, because it still needs to be introduced. This costs 70 million and the tenants receive less rent payment every year for years. You don't see that very quickly and that's why the measuring gel is a bit sneaky, because it's all in technique. Eventually, the tenants pay the bill, and I think that's a bad thing. On balance, that is therefore a decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u87	Mr. Ronnes, we're doing the interruptions in half, so Mr. Nijboer continues his speech. But first, Mr Koerhuis has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u88	In the beginning Mr Nijboer was still precise, but now he misses the point. He literally says: the rent fee goes down, goes less fast...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u89	Slow down, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u90	Yes, but the rent surcharge continues to rise by €6 per month per tenant, every year. Say that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u91	It's the same as the AOW. When are we going to find the cuts on the AOW a cut? That's an easier example, because everyone understands that. If we stop indexing and keep the AOW equal, there will be more AOWs, because we have more elderly people, and we will spend more on the AOW. That way we will not cut back. That is the reasoning of the VVD, but it is not right. We never do that here. That's just a cloth for bleeding or pulling up some kind of smokescreen so as not to have to stand behind this austerity. Just come out for it! You can only do the first half, because I agree. I agree, but you don't choose. It's not very expensive. We're not talking about big money here. It is 138 million and perhaps it is even less because of the new estimates. Half a billion has just been found for the dividend tax, while three out of the four parties, if I understand correctly, do not really support it. Then why not find this money for tenants who are having a hard time? That's what it's about. Mr. Chairman. I come to the estimates, because that has indeed become a bit of a mess. At the request of the Chamber that is not to be charged to the Minister, we received the figures in four years' time. I have just explained or tried to unravel why these four years are not so relevant, because they are being introduced structurally. Anyway, that's what has been asked and so the Minister gives those answers. There is also the fact that rents would not increase by 2020 or at least that net assistance would increase more than rents, so that the rent surcharge would not be cut by 2020. My question is: how is that even possible? Because the expectation is that house prices will rise considerably. The maximum rental prices are linked to, among other things, the WOZ value of the homes. How can it be foreseen that there will be no really large rent increases by 2020? In practice, we're all going through it the other way around. How did the Minister get these estimates? Explain that to me again. I would therefore ask the Minister that rents continue to rise, given what the housing market is like. To be honest, I think it is logical that you expect far greater effects from this measure than provided for in the coalition agreement. After all, tenants have to pay a higher own contribution as the rents increase more. That's this bill. How exactly can it be the other way around? How is it that by 2020 it doesn't seem that way? Finally, Mr President. The payment problems of tenants vary greatly from one individual to another. That is what several groups have already said. Mr Ronnes said that some of them are getting worse. There are groups that have lost 30%, 35% or in individual cases even 40% of their monthly income in rent. Those are people who receive rent payments; so these are not high incomes. The PvdA Group would be in favour of a proper and precise identification of the payment problems of tenants and of proposals to resolve them. I have already prepared a motion on this, but I would ask the Minister to see if she is prepared to do so. Because, really, the payment problems of tenants are way too low on the agenda here in the Chamber, whereas this affects and affects the real lives of a lot of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you. I shall suspend for three minutes before I give Mrs Beckerman the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u93	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the rent allowance has been under pressure for a number of years. There are ministers and political parties who believe that too much money goes to rent payments. The then Minister Blok made no secret of wanting to cut the rent surcharge. Does the current Minister agree? Last year there was a saving of 138 million on the rent payment and now suddenly no more. How is that calculation to be explained? Can the Minister undertake that there will be no cuts in the rent allowance during this cabinet period? I think that would be a good step. Expenditure on the rent payment has increased, but that is due to political choices. Politics has chosen not to increase wages. Politics has chosen to explode the rents. Yesterday the CBS came up with recent figures. Over the past six years, the average rent has increased by 18.5%. The rent increase in the free sector is huge. I just heard colleagues say this doesn't matter to these tenants. Yes, because people who were first below the liberalisation limit can also receive rent payments in the free sector. Renting in the corporate sector, as Mr Kops has already shown, has also increased enormously. If the Minister wants to curb spending on the rent payment, should she agree with me that there are much better ways to do that? Think, for example, of lowering rents. What steps does the Minister intend to take to reduce rental prices in the corporate sector and the free sector? Let us not forget that many people in our country cannot make ends meet without a rent allowance. That is why it is a good thing that the hard income limits fall. Make just at €1 too much and therefore miss out on your entire rental fee is not the issue anymore. 115,000 additional households are entitled to rent allowance. That's the good news. The bad news is that all rental surcharge recipients will have to pay a higher own contribution. At present, the best-case scenario is chosen for the calculation of the own contribution. The own contribution to the rental payment shall be indexed either by the lowest percentage of rental price development or by the percentage of net assistance development. That's what the cabinet wants to let go of now. It wants to opt for a permanent link to the rental price. That rent's already sky high. Why is the Cabinet doing this? What is the need not to choose the most favourable solution? What problem is this solved? Together with the Labour Party, I have tabled an amendment to opt for the best scenario for the tenant. The so-called 'can' provision should not be deleted. According to calculations, the cabinet saves 51 million. This is very little, compared to the 2 billion that is given with great ease to multinationals in the form of dividend taxation. You can't explain that, can you? It cannot be explained that money can be found so easily for multinationals, but so difficult for tenants. The cabinet gives 2 billion away to multinationals and at the same time demands EUR 2 billion from housing corporations, through the landlord's levy. In crisis time tenants were allowed to pay extra, in times when things are going well they are allowed to pay extra. Because above that, the cabinet is going to levy even more tax, EUR 300 million. These are measures against tax avoidance by international companies. But a national non-profit sector, namely housing corporations, is affected. This will be at the expense of tenants and their homes again. Does the Minister think it is fair to cut back on the support of tenants? Need for housing, long waiting lists, towering rents, overdue maintenance, mold, moisture problems: when has it been enough? When is going to be invested in tenants and their homes instead of taking them alone? Mr. Chairman. How can large families in relation to single-person households receive less rent allowance for exactly the same house? Large families have high costs and the rent payment is a means to accommodate tenants with the lowest incomes. Can you explain why single-person households are entitled to a 40% rent allowance on the amount between the capping limit and the rental surcharge limit, but not large families? Mr. Chairman. Already in May I asked Chamber questions about rent allowance for people who rent from a health care institution or for sheltered living. Those questions have still not been answered. In the meantime, rent payments are being recovered from vulnerable people who have just taken a step towards independence or recovery. That puts this vulnerable group in serious trouble, while there is a judge's ruling that these people are entitled to a rent allowance. How is that possible? I see nodding faces. I also really hope that the whole House will agree that this should not be possible and that these people will be hard hit on their path to independence. I'd like to conclude with an alternative. I heard a lot of MPs say: we're gonna delete that can-be and we don't want to hit the tenants, but we're gonna make the system simpler. I do not quite believe in that, but if you really want to make the system simpler, I do have one more proposal. Rent allowance is indeed complicated. We agree on that. It needs to be clearer and simpler. So let's turn the mortgage interest deduction and the rent allowance into a housing allowance. Not longer than the property is central, but the income. People in residential housing can also have difficulty paying the mortgage. This is the chance to treat the rental sector and the purchasing sector more equally. Is the Minister therefore prepared to examine the possibilities for a housing allowance? Beautiful in time. No questions. Well, I guess I'll be off then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u95	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66. I can inform you that after Mrs Van Eijs we will suspend for 20 minutes before the Minister will answer the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a short but important bill. Predecessors have already indicated that this law contains two different proposals. Firstly, the cabinet proposes not to stop the rent payment abruptly if the income increases slightly. This puts an end to an unfair, counterproductive and undesirable system. That is a very good thing. I think that all my colleagues have received e-mails that painfully illustrate how the current system of rent payment can work out. For example, I received an e-mail from someone who went to work 40 hours a week instead of 20 hours a week. Because of this he crossed the maximum income limit, he had to repay his entire rent payment over that calendar year. Net he went there because he lost fees, but €100 a month ahead. Moreover, he did not count on it, so he suddenly had to pay back more than €1,000 to the Tax Office. This example illustrates the two main problems of the current system of rental payments. Firstly, people who are going to work more or make promotions are not rewarded for this. After all, they should improve, but work more for the Tax Administration than for themselves. Why work more if it's not rewarded? With this proposal we make work more wages. That's why I'm very proud of it. People who now have too much income for rent payments are making enormous progress with this measure. Nibud, for example, has calculated that a single pensioner with a supplementary pension of €7,500 per month will improve €166. For a couple with a gross income of €2,500 per month, this law means that they are entitled to €100 per month rent allowance. Those are, in proportion, really huge amounts of money. The second problem is that families sometimes have to repay huge amounts of rent payments afterwards. That's an average of €1,500. Of course, people don't have that kind of money on the couch. This could lead to enormous problems, for example, in debt. This is a lot more common than you might think. Last year, for example, there were 70,000 households. With this bill, we are largely removing this problem. Less people will have to pay back and those who have to pay back will have to pay back a much lower amount. I am proud that the cabinet removes these two important problems that many Dutch people face with lower or middle income. These are ordinary people with a normal job, people who are not broad, painters, nurses and police officers. This proposal makes it possible for them to make a financial contribution and to make it easier for them to pay for their homes. Then, of course, there is the second part of the law, which is more resistant to it. It is therefore a question of removing the possibility clause. In concrete terms, it means that the standard rent will no longer be increased by the lowest of rental price developments and net assistance development. Instead, rent trends in the social sector are monitored. The own contribution increases with the rent increase of the social housing, not with the rent increase in the free sector. This is an important distinction to make since rents in the free sector are indeed rising much faster than in the regulated sector. In recent years there has been a rental agreement which fortunately did not increase so quickly. Yesterday CBS figures showed that corporate rental prices are rising about as fast as inflation. Even now, Aedes and the House Union are negotiating a rental agreement. In addition, wages will increase in the coming years. Economists expect them to rise faster than inflation and faster than the rents in the regulated sector. As wages rise, so does assistance. The cabinet also takes a number of important measures to improve purchasing power. Think of increasing the various tax reductions. In August we saw the latest purchasing power figures and in 2019 the picture looks good. The purchasing power of tenants also increases on average by 0.7% per year due to government policy. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The enormous benefits of this bill are obvious. Firstly, a large group of tenants are improving, those who are currently making too much money for rent payments. More importantly, people do not have to pay back the entire rent payment if they are going to earn a euro more. Secondly, society as a whole is improving because work is going to pay more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mrs Van Eijs is actually doing the same thing that Mr Ronnes just did; he is looking at the sector and you are even bringing society in at the end. We are talking about the fact that there are a number of individual cases which can be seen to deteriorate due to the deletion of the possibility clause. These individual cases are the most vulnerable people in our society. Don't you think that's undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u98	It's always good to look at vulnerable people in society. I think the Cabinet does. The rent allowance is one of the aspects that we can help those vulnerable people with. The rent bonus is also increasing. People are supported. In addition, the Cabinet is taking a lot of other measures that will also benefit vulnerable people. That is what we see in the calculations: all groups are improving.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u99	You say that all groups are making progress, but the most vulnerable people are making the least progress, as these purchasing power figures show. But that's not even my concern. I am concerned that you should choose to support a proposal which, in my opinion, makes it demonstrably worse for the most vulnerable people you have a great heart for. Why do you, as D66, specifically support this proposal? Do you not agree with me that it is actually an undesirable proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u100	As I have just pointed out in my speech, I think that the proposal in its entirety will bring a great deal of prosperity to many people. I have already mentioned the examples of the enormous sums that people will get now. All in all, we can certainly support this proposal in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u101	Thank you. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 12:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u102	I ask Members to take their seats, including those who are still in the wings. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you also to all the spokesmen for their input, their questions and their comments on this bill. A legislative proposal, as has just been said by almost all the spokesmen, concerns two amendments to the Rent Payment Act: the other method of indexing the own contribution and extending the income range. I would remind you that these two proposals are based on recommendations in the final report of the IBO, the Interdepartmental Policy Research on Social Rental, and from there they have found their way into the coalition agreement. The Court's first term shows that most of the questions and discussions are about the other indexation of its own contribution, the so-called "can-determine" clause, which is deleted, and to a much lesser extent about extending the income range. I note that there is broad support for broadening the income range, which means that households will no longer easily lose the entire rent bonus if income increases are small. I notice that this is generally seen as a profit. That is why I would just like to start by referring to the deletion of that provision. You have seen in the documents it has also been discussed before with your Chamber that the reason for this proposal is to correct the improper interlinkage between income policy and housing policy. The own contribution to the rental fee will only be dependent on the rental development, thus creating a clear relationship with the rental policy. Up to now, the lack of assistance has resulted in automatic compensation through the rent payment. That is, as has also been noted by the Social Rental Committee, a crazy situation: with a specific housing market instrument you do a general income repair. This bill proposes that this automation should be abolished. But, of course, the position of low-income people must not be neglected. I have pointed this out before. There is always an annual moment to take an integral look at purchasing power development. This is the subject of comprehensive decision-making on the part of the cabinet, and this is always discussed in your Chamber with, indeed, the Minister for Social Affairs. Mr Kops asked for that. Then the whole of purchasing power development can be looked at, and not just one element that determines the purchasing power. Returning to this proposal, the proposal leads to a clear division of responsibility in the eyes of the cabinet. It makes the rent allowance more transparent, as the transfer of social security measures is removed from the scheme. Then the effects of this bill. I am referring to the total; Mr Ronnes and others have rightly pointed this out. On balance, these two changes lead to an increase in the amount of money allocated to the rent payment and thus to the rent payment recipients during this cabinet period. The effects of the other indexation of the own contribution are much smaller than the effects of extending the income range. The effects of a different indexation are also highly dependent on the actual difference between assistance development and rental development. This is also apparent from the fact that the government agreement actually expected a greater impact of the measure. That image has been adjusted. You have seen this, and some of you have noticed it, in the explanatory statement. In the meantime, we expect that in 2019 rental development will be lower than assistance development, so that the change in indexation will have no effect at all. I would really like to emphasise once again that the possible effects in later years do not reduce the amount of the rent payment received by households. However, it may be, and that is also what Mr Smeulders and others point out, that in future the rent premium will increase less than without the change. In the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that the deletion of the possibility clause according to current views leads to "I'm just as precise as a limitation of the average annual increase in the rent payment of approximately €0.80 per month. On the basis of the current figures, the rent supplement continues to increase annually by an average of €6 per month. Thus, the expiry of the maximum income limits has no effect on current rent recipients in the case of a constant income, but it is prevented that this group may lose the whole supplement directly if income increases are limited. So that's the whole package. I am really glad that, even with these proposals, there is a real improvement. It seems to me the best thing for me to do now, on the basis of the specific questions, is to deal with the rest of the legislative proposal. I've already said a few things about numbers. Quite specifically, Mr Kops, as well as Mr Ronnes, asked us to go into more detail about these amounts. I just said I tried to update the numbers. They will have to be updated further because, of course, we will always have new estimates in August. But the latest figures are the figures you received from me. They're more recent than the housing union figures. The new economic insights are based on the Central Economic Plan, which is therefore the basis for the updated effects as set out in the explanatory memorandum. This therefore leads to a much more limited effect than was originally envisaged by the coalition agreement. As I have just argued, if we then look at the latest estimates of the CPB, i.e. those of August, then in the end the deletion of that provision in 2019 will have no effect. Of course, no figures are available for later years. I come to Mr Koerhuis. I wanted to do the rest of the answer in the order of the speakers. Mr Koerhuis had one more question, apart from his speech. It was about letting go of the link between the rent payment and the rent. Then he's talking about the standard rents. I think that is something we should look at in the context of simplifying the rent payment. But I think Mr Koerhuis also realizes that letting go of this can have great income consequences, both positive and negative. That therefore requires a very careful consideration. So I place his question in the context of simplifying the rent payment and not directly in relation to the proposal before us. But the point is clear. If I am not mistaken, Mr Smeulders was the speaker after Mr Koerhuis. Mr Smeulders and others pointed to the increase in rents in general. Those rents are going up, I'm sure, that's true. The CBS has also come up with new figures and reported last Wednesday that the rent would have increased by an average of 18.5% over the past six years. This is partly about ordinary inflation, i.e. the general price increase, partly about rent increases in the case of rent changes, i.e. in the case of relocations. Moreover, landlords have been allowed to increase those rents with more than inflation since 2013. But for the housing corporations, the average space they can use to increase the rents is limited by the Wet flow rent market. So, yeah, all in all, there's a rent rise. At the same time, it has been relatively limited on top of inflation since 2012. For the future, all parties are now working on a social housing agreement. I hope and also hope that it can lead to good agreements on controlled rent development. The rent increase is also reflected by general inflation. Of course, that has a connection. The impact of inflation is taken into account every year when deciding on the income picture. This brings me back to the point that I made at the beginning: in the end we have to look at the overall picture, not just the rent development but the overall income picture. On the basis of that income picture, we can see if adjustments are needed, for example in the rent allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr President, did you now say... Did the Minister say in between the sentences that she would actually want there to be a restriction? So would you like the rents in the social sector to go down, but are you simply waiting for the agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u105	Sir, or ma'am, excuse me. You are not speaking to the President, and I am speaking to you wrongly. I replied with the word "controlled." And perhaps Mrs Beckerman had misunderstood that word. What I'm counting on are good agreements about controlled rental development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u106	A controlled development means that you say that 18.5% of the past years I find uncontrolled? So we're supposed to make it less in the next few days?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u107	No. I don't think Mrs Beckerman heard that right. I have just argued that although the figures are the way they are, so there is, of course, an increase in rents that has actually been moderate over the past five years. I also indicated that my hope for the social housing agreement is that good agreements can also be made on future controlled rent development. Then Mr Smeulders said something about the purchasing power of low-income households. I just said something about that. I do not want to repeat myself, but his question indicated that he is calling for attention to be paid to the purchasing power development of low-income households. There must be this attention, but I will continue to place it in the context of the general purchasing power picture, and I would also ask him to do so. No doubt he will; I do not know whether he will do so himself or with a colleague. With the Minister of SZW, of course, there is always a good debate on purchasing power development. I really think that this is the place to look at the purchasing power of low-income households. I would also ask Mr Smeulders not to do so in isolation, alone, on this subject. Of course, I cannot anticipate Prince's Day, but that is of course an important moment, because then we will all be able to see how purchasing power is developing across the board. Mr Smeulders also asked whether other options for simplification had been explored. The National Housing Agenda has recently been presented. It announces this bill. It is also announced that we want to explore now we have started to explore what improvements and simplifications are possible within the current rental fee system. I said this just now in response to Mr Koerhuis' question. This happens to the parties involved in the Housing Agenda. We will first have to have the outcome of the exploration to see if simplifications can be implemented. I hope to be able to submit an interim report to the Chamber by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u108	Can the Minister state what solutions are envisaged?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u109	We can now have a debate on this, but we are currently discussing it with these parties. Then I also want to be able to consider their solutions or suggestions carefully and look with them where we come from. After that, for example, after sending the mid-term report, I would like to have a debate with your Chamber. Then I have a broader palette for you to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u110	I also asked for sustainability to be included in my contribution. I would like to know from the Minister whether that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr Smeulders asked, I thought, whether sustainability could get a place in the system. I heard that question. I only doubt if that is a simplification, but I understand the idea. I would therefore like to take this into account in the development of the housing agenda. It also states that we could look at the possibility of a housing tax approach. I can imagine that Mr Smeulders thinks that sustainability can be given a place in it. I don't know if that'll make it any easier, but it's in there. I would like to see if Mr Smeulders had any other specific questions, but I do not think so. I turn to the following speaker: Mr Kops. Mr Kops asked why both proposals are in fact two proposals in one legislative proposal. That is very simple: both require a change to the Law on the rental allowance. It was announced in the coalition agreement. It is a single law, which is amended on two points. From the point of view of efficiency, effective legislative procedures, it is obvious to combine this. It also works efficiently for the Tax Administration, which I consider to be an important consideration. I think I have already answered Mr Koolmees' question about Mr Koolmees. I have spoken about the annual integral moment. Mr Kops pointed out that, as stated in the document, a larger group of households would in future be eligible for a rent allowance. He brought that in connection with the current group of people who actually have to pay back. The abolition of the poverty trap as of 1 January 2020 prevents the current situation from occurring on that scale in the future. But it doesn't go in until it goes in. This means that there are different groups, a new group and the old group. We're solving the problem that exists now, so we're actually solving it for the future. I hope that was clear to Mr Kops. Then I'll go to Mr. Ronnes. He had another question about the appropriate allocation. He said that this has a pinching effect on corporations and calls attention to it. He wants a little more room for customization. That is what he has done before on a motion for a resolution, a motion for a resolution by Mr Ronnes on this subject. I believe that I also said to Mr Ronnes at the time that I think this is an important point and that I would like to take it with me in the evaluation of the Housing Act. I think this is a logical time to address this issue. So far, as Mr Ronnes knows, studies carried out in the field of appropriate allocation have not shown that this 5% is insufficient. But I understand very well that, while you can perhaps say across the board that it is sufficient, in specific situations, exactly what Mr Ronnes was talking about, it is not enough. So let me come back to that in the evaluation. It comes at the end of the year. In doing so, I hope to carry out a previous motion by Mr Ronnes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u112	I am very pleased to hear from the Minister that she wants to do something about it and at least take a good look at it in order to make improvements if necessary. But she was talking about the end of next year. Then there are measures to be taken. We've been talking about it for a long time. I hear from the corporate sector that people are running into it hard. My request, in addition to what the Minister has promised, is whether, in the discussions she is having with corporations, she will not be able to look again at the need for acceleration. In the current housing market, with so many people waiting for a home and looking for a home, this simply creates additional disadvantages for those looking for a home. It would, I think, help to pay sufficient attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u113	I certainly want to pay sufficient attention to that. It is the subject of discussion, also with Aedes, the corporations, and of course with municipalities, who often have a good view of this. I don't know if I can speed it up. In my opinion, it makes sense to highlight this aspect in the review of the Housing Act in the autumn. But I heard Mr Ronnes right. Then Mr Nijboer. Some of his comments and questions have already been dealt with in the introductory paragraphs, I think. He had a very specific question about the income limit for AOW beneficiaries. That is also about the appropriate allocation. What we have done now is to technically transfer from one system to another. I understand his point, and what he's saying might be a good idea for the future. It is therefore not included now, but this part too could be included in the evaluation of the Housing Act with regard to the appropriate allocation, as was just discussed in Mr Ronnes's interruption. With regard to the deletion of the possibility clause, it is perhaps appropriate to answer specifically Mr Nijboer's question, whether it is a cut-off. The approach, or rather the estimate at the time of the coalition agreement, was that it would also cost less money. If it pays off, you can see that, of course. However, the deletion of the possibility clause does not ultimately lead to a reduction in the amount of rent surcharge received by households. It's exactly a matter of how you look at it. It's less "more," but it's definitely "more." So I don't want to see it as a cut-back, but as an adjustment of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u114	We're gonna hear it. Mr. Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u115	"Reversion" may still be allowed today, because "sustainment" sometimes found rulers annoying and then they called it "reversion." But we just have agreements in this house about how we treat budgets. All legislative changes leading to less expenditure than foreseen are austerity. Everything is always indexed because everything always gets more expensive; the life of everyone, of teachers and I know a lot about it. And if you step away from that, it's a cutdown. I think that the Minister's answer, but also now, is basically about it. I think she should just say honestly: on balance, the government agreement is based on a cut on the rent payment. Of course it's less than that. I recognize that, too. I'm not running away from that at all. But it's a cutback.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u116	Yes, but I would also ask Mr Nijboer to consider that maintaining the possibility could have a major impact on budgetary sustainability. I assume that this is also the case in the ibo at the time for that reason. That is why I can very much support the choice to delete the possibility clause, which is also better for budgetary sustainability at all, and at the same time to consider the purchasing power of the lower incomes in full, not just from this provision with the rent payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u117	No, it can't be both. The Minister cannot say "this measure has great budgetary implications for the future" and at the same time say "it's only €0.80 in the month and it actually costs nothing." It's one of both. If the Minister claims that if we do not do so, the expenditure on the rent payment will be totally blocked, then it will be a serious cut. Whether it is what was first argued, that it is only €0.80 per month and it is all not so bad, even if it is still "unsustainable" or it is not sustainable. Surely the Minister agrees with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u118	No, I disagree with Mr Nijboer. At the time of this cabinet period it is a limited attachment. In fact, with the new estimates, that is probably nil. However, in the much longer term, if you go through with it, the provision as such would have consequences for sustainability, just the fiscal system. It's really two very different things. You want to keep an eye on the purchasing power of lower incomes. That's what's gonna happen. The effects on the purchasing power of low incomes for this period are very limited. We can show that now. In the longer term, I prefer to look at the integral purchasing power, including lower incomes, from everything that is being done and demanded for lower incomes, while at the same time we know that a risk to fiscal sustainability has been removed from the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u119	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u121	Mr Smeulders is getting up. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u122	We are discussing this bill today. I understand that the Minister says that we need to look at the overall picture of purchasing power development, including vulnerable people and low incomes, because they are affected by this bill. I am very curious to see what the Minister for the Interior and Home Affairs has agreed with the Minister for Social Affairs to compensate this group of people. If she can say that we have made good agreements on this and there is absolutely no reason to worry about it, it would be a lot easier to go along with it. However, we do not know that, and that makes it very complicated. All we see is a legislative proposal that shows that vulnerable people are deteriorating. I am very curious to see what the Minister can say about how she has agreed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u123	I can say two things about it. One: you have seen in the coalition agreement and its transfer that, on balance, that group is also making progress. The second thing, and I just hinted at that, is that we have to be patient with each other until Prince's Day. Then Mr Smeulders can also form a complete picture of whether he thinks that the cabinet will also come forward with good proposals on this point. However, I cannot say more about it now in this place than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u124	I understand that, but you have just promised that you will look at further simplification of the rent payment. Are you prepared to give the vulnerable groups and, in particular, the payment risks for people in those groups an important place in this further simplification that you are in the lead for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u125	Actually, I've agreed to both. I said I'm going to look at that simplification. I have also said that I certainly do not neglect the position of the most vulnerable groups and the lowest incomes. So what Mr Smeulders is asking for, I have actually just appointed. I have said that I will certainly pay attention to it, of course. As a result, Mr Nijboer also asked to identify payment problems of tenants. The new housing research will also look at the housing costs. The intention is to report on this in the course of 2019. One part of this is that we are always monitoring the development of home evictions. About 3,700 house evictions take place every year. That's dropping a little bit, but it's still happening. In most cases, they are households with a rent disadvantage. That is something we signal with each other, the corporations in particular, as early as possible to find out what caused it, to make a payment arrangement and to prevent the expulsion of the house. It is, of course, important to be aware of these issues and to try to do something about them as early as possible. Then I'll be with Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u126	I shall begin by giving Mr Nijboer the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u127	House expansion is, of course, the most extreme form. Housing corporations try to avoid that as much as possible. Unfortunately, there are many more people who are fortunately not thrown out of their homes: very large groups that have a lot of trouble tying the rent and everything together every month. So I'm not just talking about the people being evicted, but mainly about the whole group that's struggling to make ends meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u128	I understand that very well. We know the examples. Those of us who have worked in local government have also seen them. I fully agree with Mr Nijboer. At the same time, he also knows that in order to help and position these people as well as possible, there is much more possible and should also be done than just looking at the rents. It's about people with, for a variety of reasons, problematic debts. It is about people who are remote from the labour market, and of course we would like to do something about it. There is a whole palette of issues around which, of course, everything has to be done at the level of the municipalities and to which this cabinet also wishes to pay attention. It is a broader problem than just the rental problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u129	I agree with the Minister. She's right that you should also look at those other facets, but rent is a very important part of what people have lost in the month. We're talking about renting now. I would ask the Minister to pay more attention to this, to know precisely where the bottlenecks are. Is that mainly with AOWs, with families with more children or with single people? Where's that rent the hardest? Where are the people who lost 30% or 40% of their income? Should we not adjust the policy a little to meet those groups that are most in trouble? That's actually my main question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u130	It is true that in the case of lower incomes, the rent or living takes on a relatively large amount of income. Mr Nijboer is quite right about that. I also fully agree with him that we need to know that. But to some extent it is inevitable that you are relatively more lost living with a lower income. It is also true that there are also specific bottlenecks in specific groups. As far as I'm concerned, that's all part of how we're going to look at the simplification of the rent allowance and how we're even looking at this group. But I'll keep placing it, when it comes to the income picture, in total. So once the rents are an important part, but it's not the only one. Mrs Beckerman pointed out that larger families often have greater affordability problems. She called for attention to be paid to the multi-person household rental allowance above the capping limit. Well, that would be a change with a lot of extra money, so that is not the proposal now. The Housing Agenda, which we have already discussed, states that we are going to explore this simplification and improvement, in consultation with the parties I have just mentioned. Perhaps it could come back to that whole thing again. Mrs Beckerman drew attention to the idea that we should go to a housing allowance. Yes, rent and purchase are of course very different. I understand her point in itself. That can be looked at, I understand, but that's really a long shot, I think. So I don't think that's a simple answer. Mrs Beckerman also asked what steps I would like to take to reduce rents in the social and free sector. I also refer to the social lease agreement, where, as far as I am concerned, parties should first reach good agreements among themselves on controlled rental developments, on which we just had an interrupting debate. Finally, Mrs Beckerman asked about the wider context. It pointed to a number of fiscal developments affecting housing corporations, including the Vpb. It regularly draws attention to the fact that housing corporations are taxed by the landlord tax and have their social problems on the other hand. Well, I've already promised, along with Secretary of State Snel van Financiën, that we'll map those effects well. I'll report to your room on that, so I have a real eye for that. But I would also point out that the law has several safeguards against too high rent increases, including the rent-sum approach and the limitation on individual rental fees. The total of the system must be well balanced. Indeed, we must always be able to assess whether the corporations are able to carry out their core tasks properly. In its entirety, so can I. Where it pinches, it is often a question of a specific housing corporation. On the whole, that investment space is there. Mr. Chairman. The others have asked many questions, but I hope I have answered them sufficiently in my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u131	I still miss answering a question about care and shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u132	Well, Mr. Chairman, you've been paying more attention than I have. But I thought that was something I had just discussed with Mr Ronnes. Or was that another question? I'm sure Mrs Beckerman will remind me of her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u133	That's right, Mr. Chairman. It was about the Council of State ruling on people on their way to independence. For example, they come from a health care institution and then they go to live protected. The Council of State has ruled that they are entitled to support, but they are not getting it at the moment. We believe, I presume, like the Minister, that it is important for people to be self-sufficient again. We can help people by giving them that rent bonus, which the judge also pronounced. Does the Minister follow that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u134	The answer to the last question is that of course I have to do so, but perhaps you will allow me to go into it a little more specifically in the second period, because I simply missed the question in the first period, for which I apologise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u135	Fine. Let me look around to see if Members need a second term. I have one member who will refrain from doing so. Are there more people? Oh, there are a few people who would like to say a few words. Fine. We have every opportunity for that. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Koerhuis of the VVD for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said, the VVD is proud of this growing reform of the rent allowance. But thinking doesn't stand still. There are other ways of making this system simpler. I am therefore also pleased that the Minister is looking at this and that several parties want the system to be simpler. I do have a few more questions. What path is the Minister now in order to simplify the system? Who's sitting at the table? The Minister talks about the possibility of a mid-term report by the end of this year. Is it coming at the end of the year or not? The Minister also mentioned that there are advantages and disadvantages. Maybe the Minister can elaborate on that. She says it has income implications and that that's a disadvantage. Of course, that can also be an advantage. Another advantage might be that you lay down a little more responsibility with tenants themselves. For example, if you let go of the link between the rent payment and the rental price and only look at the income, then you lay down the responsibility to choose your own property a little more with the tenant. Those are advantages, too. Mr Ronnes spoke of appropriate allocation. He said it's pinching. I understand the individual cases mentioned by Mr Ronnes. For example, an older person with low income and high capital may also want to respond to more expensive social housing. I still understand that. But I do not think that is entirely appropriate in the rücksichtslos increase the standard from 5% to 10%. Would the Minister be able to reflect on that a little bit? Both talk about customization. I agree with customization, but the rücksichtslos increase the percentage is no longer customization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u137	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. I have to admit that, unfortunately, it has not removed our concerns about abolishing the can-determine, because we really think that the most vulnerable people are affected by this bill. However, we are pleased that the Minister has promised to look at how sustainability, or indeed total housing costs, can be put in place in the further studies on the simplification of the rent allowance. I also have a motion on further simplification. I'll read to her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government agreement agreed that the rent allowance should be simplified;]] [[noting that many households in the social housing sector have difficulty in paying bills each month;]] [[Whereas it is not desirable for more households to be exposed to payment risks;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the payment risks for people in the social rental sector when drawing up further proposals for simplifying the rent payment;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34940-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. "Simplification of the system," she says. Well, as far as we're concerned, there's nothing simpler than just maintaining the system. By that, I mean simply maintaining the can-determine in the law as it is. I understand that Mr Nijboer and Mrs Beckerman have already tabled an amendment to remove that element from the legislative proposal. Of course, that's very good. But I'm still filing this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the possibility provision in the Law on the rental allowance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34940-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u141	Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mr President, very briefly. In the first period, I asked the Minister in particular to clarify and clarify what the figures were about. She did. I can conclude that the line of thought we had before this debate has not changed and that the effects of the overall package are really an improvement for the social rental market. Ultimately, this package with the figures we had on the proposal represents a progress of EUR 111 million. It is good to hear from the Minister that there is probably another improvement after the 2019 update. That is just what I would like to conclude, particularly because some parties are creating the picture that we are trying to achieve here a austerity in the social rental sector. I am glad that it has now been made hard that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u143	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u144	I'm just gonna walk back and get my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u145	Take it easy, Mr. Nijboer, or you're gonna be standing right here reading your motion. We're not gonna do that, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u146	No. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To conclude with Mr Ronnes' last words: the opposite is true, because it is simply a cut-off. The Minister also says that it is really necessary for the sustainability of the system and that we do not notice so much of it in the first few years, but that it really has to deliver enough in the future. That's at this economic time and when you look at how people are doing and the housing costs of tenants, it's just an incomprehensible and wrong choice. That is why I tabled the amendment with Mrs Beckerman in order not to do so. I hope it gets the support of the Chamber, because the money can be found really easily. We also come up with a counter-budget in which we will outline many options. If, even if something is not in the budget, you can find 0.5 billion for something you don't agree with, shouldn't that also be possible for something you care about? This has to be possible for tenants, right? I look mainly at the CDA and the Christian Union and I address them to them, even though the Christian Union is not here. With Carola Schouten, I've done it over and over again over and over again over and over again over and over again. I say this also in response to the Minister who justifies it with 'a simplification' and 'it is the outcome of interdepartmental policy research'. That's true. I've read that that's the outcome. But a politician must also say what he does with it. It's been known for years. And when we were in the coalition, it was also put on the board with us. It will be a simplification for the technique, but if the tenants go backwards on it, I would say as Minister for Housing: 'no, I do not, because that is unwise' or, if I want it anyway because it is a simplification:'make a variant where the tenants are all making progress'. You can do that. You don't simply sign your signature under a cut on the tenants. We had another conversation about the living expenses for everyone and the problems that are with that. I'd like to have a closer look at that. I therefore have a motion on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the burden of housing for more and more people is more difficult to bear;]] [[Whereas it should be possible for everyone in the Netherlands to live affordable;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine the groups of people who have difficulties in paying the housing costs and to make proposals to resolve these problems and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Smeulders and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34940-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u147	I have a question for Mr Nijboer. He speaks a great deal about a counter-budget, but we have not yet seen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u148	No, it's coming after Prince's Day. I can hardly file a budget before the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u149	You are now tabling a very tough amendment, but is there any coverage in that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u150	Sure. Together with the SP and GroenLinks, we have made six alternative main choices for the cabinet for the entire cabinet period. Living was one of the most important pillars underneath. We want to allocate more than a billion dollars to make living affordable and sustainable. From my point of view, it is 1.2 billion, where the cabinet removes one billion from the entire housing sector. This measure is part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u151	That wasn't my question. Is there coverage in this amendment? If not, does Mr Nijboer agree with me that the old PvdA of "on the puffy life" is back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u152	I think that criticism is very original, especially after the past period. We have been accused of a great deal, but not that we have lived too much on the brink in recent years and that Minister Dijsselbloem has let the budget go. We have coverages over: Vpb, VAT and of course also the dividend tax. I would also like to look for coverages that are less painful for the VVD; that is no problem at all. We have also put forward proposals for this. This costs 138 billion. For the sake of size, we've dragged 10 billion dollars compared to the cabinet plans. As far as I am concerned, you may choose to kiss and choose to undo this. That's only 1% of the coverage provided by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is one of those debates that you actually know in advance what will happen: we are facing each other for a moment and finally the coalition is closing the queues. I really regret that again, especially because the most vulnerable group is now being muffled away, as if they were not affected by it. We are concerned about this, not only about the small or slightly larger group that is getting worse, but about the total rental sector. Of course, we have said this many times, but the rents are huge and too little is still being built. For a lot of houses you pay a lot more, but you do have a lot of late maintenance, fungus and health problems. The pattern is that every time we cut a little bit and sometimes a little bit more on tenants and that tenants get less ahead. We see every day the cheers in the newspaper about how well the economy is doing. Then, of course, it is very painful for tenants to find that this often does not apply to them and that they are often in a worse house than before. That is not really a satisfactory end to this debate either. I am glad that the Minister says that she will at least look at the rents and that she will remain on top of them. We were thinking of a motion, but we're not going to do it now. I do have a few other motions. The first motion concerns a point on which I have not yet received a reply from the Minister in the first term. I hope, of course, for a good answer. Then I can hold the motion, but I'll file the motion in advance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2015 the Council of State considered that rent allowance should be given to a client who rents an apartment through a healthcare institution;]] [[whereas rent allowance for temporary accommodation is not actually possible, but that people who take a step towards independent living earn income support if they need it;]] [[calls on the Government to allow rent allowance for people who live (temporarily) protected or (temporarily) rent through a healthcare institution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Smeulders and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34940-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u155	My second motion concerns the larger families, who receive less rent payments than single households, while large families often have higher charges. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that multiple-person households, especially large families, receive less rent allowance for exactly the same house in relation to single-person households;]] [[Whereas large households with low incomes have high burdens;]] [[calls on the Government to grant the same entitlement to 40% rent allowance as single-person households on the amount between the capping limit and the rental surcharge limit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34940-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u156	And then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tenants are met in their living expenses through the rent payment and that homeowners benefit from mortgage interest deduction;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to treat rent and purchase more equally;]] [[noting that a housing allowance was already appointed in Wonen 4.0, which is not property but the income and composition of the household;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether a property-neutral housing allowance can be introduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34940-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u157	I think that appeals very nicely to the wish of the Chamber to keep it all simple. I think this is a very good and simple way to deal with it. That was the end of it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u158	As has already been said, Mrs Van Eijs has renounced the possibility of speaking in second term. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Why don't we just suspend for a few minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u159	I would like to give the floor to the Minister to answer the second-term questions and her appreciation of five motions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had left one question unanswered, at least largely unanswered, from Mrs Beckerman. Now it is somewhat unpleasant to answer it if Mrs Beckerman has not yet had the opportunity to reach the Chamber. So I'm gonna leave it for a little while. Mr Koerhuis had two questions. Then I come to the motions and the amendment. Mr Koerhuis wanted to know a little more about simplification. Who's at the table, he asked among others. These are the well-known parties, but also the parties needed for this: Aedes, the Woonbond, IVBN, i.e. institutional investors, Real Estate Interest. In fact, it is the parties that play such an important role in the context of the Housing Agenda. I would also like to say to him, he asked, that it is the intention to have an interim report by the end of this year. That's the goal. Mr Koerhuis made a comment on Mr Ronnes' question. He asked me to say that at the appropriate allocation we would not "open all locks." I do not think that is what Mr Ronnes is asking either. I don't think it's where I'd want to go either, and neither do the corporations and Aedes. We want to see if the regulations are too restrictive. That may be due to the percentage. We may want to see an extension of that. But I'm not saying that in advance. We are concerned about actual application in practice. If it's the percentage, we should adjust it. But of course it is the effect, the customization as Mr Ronnes called it. That's the goal. So we should not say at the front that we are going to solve it by increasing the percentage. But if it's necessary, it's necessary. I'll get back to the Chamber on that. Mrs Beckerman owed me an answer on the Council of State's ruling. It was about people coming from a care facility being entitled to support. I just took a look at it. Basically, I agree with her. I think we should look into this carefully. It must, of course, fit within the legal framework and we must consider the feasibility of the Tax Administration. However, consultations with the parties are now also under way. We're looking at all kinds of possibilities. It is being explored whether we can use a specifically tailored rental contract: a fixed-term contract. That's the kind of thing you need to think about. It is being worked on, and I hope I will say something about it later when the motions are being discussed that this reassures Mrs Beckerman to some extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u161	Can you tell me when you can send a message to the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u162	Well, that'll be sometime in the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u163	Perhaps during the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u164	That is what I shall strive for, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u166	I'm getting to the motions. The motion in part No. 8 was tabled by Mr Smeulders, also on behalf of a number of other parties. This motion calls for payment risks to be included in the drafting of the proposals for further simplification of the rent allowance. I have already said that this should be part of how we are going to look at this simplification. That is why I consider this motion to be a support for it and leave it to the House to decide. In his motion, Mr Kops asks for item No. 9 what another part of the Chamber proposes by amendment. I have just argued why the cabinet chooses not to maintain the can-determine. Mr Kops will therefore understand that I must discourage his motion. The motion in part No. 10 belongs to Mr Nijboer and deals with specific groups that could be in trouble. He's drawing attention to that. It's a motion asking the cabinet to investigate something. I'd like to promise him I will. That will be next year, because then I have current figures from the Housing Research. I want to do it along that route. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 11 by Mrs Beckerman c.s. is the motion I just referred to. Maybe she'd like to keep it after I just answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u167	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u168	Of course, that would be nice of me, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u169	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u170	But it's tricky. We submitted the parliamentary questions in May. In principle, there are three weeks for the answer, but that can be postponed to six weeks. But it's been much longer than six weeks. We've been waiting a long time. We are now getting a very positive answer. I could also imagine the Minister saying: we leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then we won't wait too long. It takes a very long time. And "in the fall" I always find a bit stretchy. It is quite long autumn; it always seems to be autumn in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u171	I got the signal from the Registry that the procedure for dealing with the internal affairs budget was planned very early in the schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u172	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u173	Can I put that against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u174	Of course, I'm looking at Mrs. Beckerman. I get it. If you submit a month before the recess or such questions and go over them for a whole summer, then of course it all seems very long. I'm sorry to hear that. That wasn't the intention. But I did just say we're going to investigate. So I'll get back to you. It is a good suggestion from the President to involve it in the budget debate. As far as I am concerned, therefore, you have the undertaking, but if Mrs Beckerman wishes to put her motion to the vote, I will leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u175	I'm happy with that judgment room. I'll think about what we're doing with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u176	Thank you. We're getting to the motion in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u177	The motion in part No. 12 is also Mrs Beckerman's. There is, however, a passage in that motion which requires me to dissuade her. It concerns the budgetary impact. The remark in the motion that it is about the same right means that this motion costs money. I have already said in my first term that we can look at it in terms of simplification, but unfortunately I cannot say at this stage that this should lead to'same law'. So I'd like to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u179	Also the motion in part No. 13 belongs to Mrs. Beckerman. That's a research motion. I can say I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. I do, but I do say that I also think Members are very aware that this is something for the longer term. This goes much wider than just a residential subject. With this remark, which I have also made in the first term, I am still waiting for the opinion of the Chamber. I think there was also an amendment. I do not have that in front of me for a moment, but I think the authors of the amendment will understand and expect me to betray it. It is precisely the opposite of what is in the legislative proposal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u180	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u181	I have a question about the motion in part No. 11. It was not entirely clear to me whether the Minister's advice was maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u182	The advice has been kept. Mrs Beckerman is considering holding it, but the motion has had Chamber's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u183	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u184	That is what my question is about, because this motion, like the motion in part No. 12 budgetary implications. The question to the Minister is whether she has coverage for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u185	I have already said in my first answer, apart from the motion, that we are going to investigate this. We're gonna check this out. I also said that it must fit within the legal framework of feasibility and affordability. I should like to add that to Mr Koerhuis' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u186	But it's not research motion. It simply says that it is possible to pay rents for certain groups that are not currently receiving them. The motion in part No. 11 is not a research motion. The Minister interprets the motion as an investigative motion and in that context I understand it, but that's not what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u187	I think I have already given my reaction to the motion, with an addition to Mr Koerhuis van just now's remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u188	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u189	We will be voting on this bill next Tuesday. I thank the Minister.
