ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Before the summer, we discussed this proposal from the European Union, which requires all EU citizens to print their ID cards. D66 has expressed great concern about this aspect of this European law. In our view, it is a serious breach of people's privacy, while the fingerprints that are now on the passports cannot be read either. D66 considers this measure disproportionate, a measure which reeks of false safety. My party therefore welcomes yesterday's letter from the Secretary of State to discuss the proportionality of fingerprints in discussions in the Council. It will also take stock of whether other Member States share this view. What purpose, I ask the Secretary of State, does this inventory serve? What's he gonna do next? Does he then set up a lobby to remove the mandatory recording of fingerprints from the proposal? That'd be great. D66 would like to see an exception clause that allows people to refuse fingerprinting for any reason. Is the Secretary of State going to bring this in? In any case, Mr. Chairman, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission proposal 2018/0104 contains the disproportionate measure to require fingerprinting as a biometric feature on ID cards;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for the Interior has undertaken to examine which Member States share the above views;]] [[calls on the Government to make a round of these Member States after this inventory in order to find supporters to change the mandatory inclusion of fingerprints for ID cards in the relevant Regulation into an optional option;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against this Regulation in the Council if it includes the obligation to include fingerprints on ID cards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34966-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. The VVD has deliberately requested a retention on this subject, because the way we handle our identity cards is important for our border security and to prevent identity fraud. Europe has a role to play in this. The VVD very much appreciates that the Secretary of State is on top of it to ensure that that works out well for the Netherlands. Madam President, I am very conscious of the fact that the general discussion on what happened in 2004 with the previous regulation on this subject was very much appreciated. I also think that we have all sought the right edge in that conversation towards Europe to make sure that things are going well this time. The second point is that we very much appreciate that the Secretary of State has promised that he will ensure that we do not close down technological possibilities for the Netherlands itself with regard to identity cards. He'll be very keen on that. I will therefore not table a motion on this, but I certainly look forward to the reports and the moments when the Chamber will be informed by the Secretary of State about important steps in the further process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. I see the Secretary of State can answer directly. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an important subject. It is indeed about a number of security issues, reliable identity cards, but also about the privacy aspects involved. In general terms, we have had a good debate on this issue. I don't think the differences are that big at all. We have the same concerns as Mrs Den Boer mentioned. We brought it in, too. You know what such a whole process at European level means. You always try to get other countries to join you, to put forward your arguments and to get a majority for your position. We share the concerns about proportionality at the moment, at this stage when many countries are not even able to work with fingerprint recording, when we are already going to do this kind of thing. At the same time, we also have security concerns. I have previously agreed in general consultation to inform the Chamber at regular intervals, if necessary, before and after these European consultations. I'll keep doing that. This is a process that has not yet been completed. The room knows my stakes. I see Mrs Den Boer's motion as an appeal to move forward with that. However, I have a number of reservations about the motion. The motion asks me to state our final position on the whole regulation at this stage. I cannot go along with that, because that would mean undermining my own negotiating position. I don't want to do that. The signal is clear, also that we are seeking support from other countries. I sent a letter to the Chamber yesterday at Mrs Den Boer's request, which clearly shows that something is moving. That's a good thing, I think. The House can expect the same commitment from the Netherlands on this point. I can promise to inform the Chamber about that. I must discourage the motion for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	We will not vote on this motion next Tuesday, because it will be Prince's Day. We'll vote on Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence.
