ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u1	I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van Denk, as the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr President. How wonderful it would be if every Dutchman knew the meaning of fundamental rights: non-discrimination, freedom of expression, freedom of religion. How wonderful it would be if we applied these fundamental rights in the same way for everyone, without double standards. As far as DENK is concerned, this is much more important than singing the Wilhelmus, which the cabinet has explicitly included in the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. This debate is about our common identity. This debate is about what every Dutchman has in common and should have in common, namely citizenship: fulfilling your duties and claiming your rights. This system of rights and obligations is the foundation of our society and must be anchored in civic education. Students indicate that schools do little about civic education. Add to that that citizenship teachers indicate that they feel less competent than colleagues in other countries. In addition, if there is little use of different means of teaching, we must be seriously concerned about the quality of citizenship education in the Netherlands. That is why the status of citizenship education needs to be strengthened and we need to make more demands on citizenship education. So a warm plea to improve our citizenship education. It is essential for pupils to learn about civil rights, basic social values, state institutions and the principles of the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u4	I fully agree with that and that is why we took the initiative a few years ago to look at the curriculum again, also on this point. It's called curriculum.Now and it's happening now. It is about citizenship in education and how to shape it precisely, because everyone in this Chamber shares these concerns. My question to Mr Kuzu is: why at the moment? Why not wait until the discussion between people who really know it, namely teachers and others, is concluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u5	I'm sure that's what needs to be done. Let's give the teachers and the professionals some room in that. They're making steps, too. The point is that, from our point of view of the task, we can give a political direction to what is to be done there. It is also positive that it is appointed in the coalition agreement. The cabinet wants to strengthen the core objectives of citizenship education in the law, and that is nice, but the cabinet is too little concrete about how and what. That is why it is good to have this debate at the moment, so that we can take steps in it as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u6	So, if I understand correctly, Mr Kuzu's aim in this debate is to give direction to the people who are now developing the curriculum for citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u7	The most important thing is that several studies indicate that citizenship education in the Netherlands is poor. That's a serious signal. I think we should take that seriously with each other. There is indeed a working group. I would like to mention what is happening there at the moment. And certainly we can give that working party as a Chamber, as a political body today, at the moment, a number of important messages from our popular representative position. That's no more than usual, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u9	Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about the plans of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u10	Before you continue, I see Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u11	I hear again that it would be very bad with the quality of citizenship education. Yeah, it could be better, but it's not bad, is it? The investigation shows that we're in the middle of something. Compared to similar countries, we score a little lower, but is that really why you are requesting this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u12	That is certainly a reason to request this debate. We want to be the frontrunner in the Netherlands. We do not settle for the middle class, as the PVV probably does. It is simply important that we excel at this point as well and take good steps to ensure that youth issues such as, for example, the freedom of religion, which we have enshrined in our Constitution, will continue to be a very important subject in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u13	We certainly do not settle for the middle class. We also want it to be perfectly fine, but it is also somewhat surprising that you, of all people, are requesting this debate as a representative of a party that is doing extraordinary ethnic profiling. You, who create an ethnic party! You're well known for the fact that in your previous party, you regularly scoundreled women. You have called to account fellow MEPs who happen to be of the same ethnic origin as you. You even reported them to your actual employer in Turkey, because they did not agree with you on the motion on the Armenian genocide. And you're gonna take us here the size of our citizenship education? I think that's a goddess, Mr. Chairman! How do you feel about that, Mr. Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u14	I think it is very important that we speak today about citizenship education. That's about our kids. I understand, of course, that the PVV wants to turn this into a debate on all kinds of issues that have nothing to do with citizenship education. But I would really like to ask Mr Beertema of the PVV to step out of his delusional world and his delusions and to put aside his dreams, those nightmares he probably has about a fairy tale he believes in and wherever he tries to make others believe in, and to focus on our future, on education, on our children and, for example, on freedom of religion. Islam, which you have been fighting with your party for years, is also part of that. Let's start respecting that with each other. That is, I think, an important signal, which is particularly important for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u15	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mr Kuzu brings up everything I haven't talked about. I address him on his own citizenship skills. We have an exemplary role to play in this. As far as I am concerned, and as far as many people are concerned, you are the worst example of integration in this country. Highly educated by all the Dutch provisions and you are standing here taking the measure of your other fellow MEPs and reporting to the Turkish regime of a dictator. That's as far as your citizenship matters. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u17	This is bullshit. That is nonsense, because I have never done what Mr Beertem here claims with dryness. I'd really like to ask you something. We have freedom of religion in this country, which is also part of Islam. I would really like to call on those who were just on the interrupting microphone to speak about citizenship and about exemplary functions to separate from that nonsense about citizenship and respect the freedom of religion in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u18	Mr Bertema has just one point. He's just got a point. I hear Mr Kuzu say that what Mr Beertema mentions would have nothing to do with citizenship. Then I would like to know from Mr Kuzu how he relates his plea for citizenship to, for example, portraying fellow room members with negative videos to generate a certain attitude in his constituency or the fact that at the moment when something happens another country our Rotterdam bridges are full of Turks. That can't be a good citizenship, can it? I believe that this is part of your constituency and I do not understand why you are here trying to argue for better citizenship education when you should actually start with yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u19	For example, we have freedom of demonstration in this country, and that freedom of demonstration means that every citizen has the right to demonstrate. You may not like it, but it is one of the most important fundamental rights in this country. That is what we agreed with each other in the Constitution. And then where it's about the movies. Please, I'd say. I've been getting the commotion in the past couple of years. From this point of view, I would like to say once again that I, or my party, the Members of the Chamber, have been mentioned five in the Turkish newspapers... I didn't do that. If I'd done it already, I wouldn't have mentioned five, but six. 'Cause there were six of them. I really want to make it very clear once again that I did not and that I will not. In the previous period, we did it because we demanded transparency from a number of Members of Parliament about their position, because they told a very different story here in the Chamber than in the outside world. But as far as the issue is concerned in recent times, it was quite clear that colleagues have an opinion on it and I respect it. I would very much like to ask that of this Chamber, and also of the outside world, that we should also be respected in our views on the basis of our freedom of expression and not by parties such as the VVD as traitors. 'Cause that's what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u20	I leave these words to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u21	No, that's the fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u22	I've never taken that word in my mouth at all. I find it very difficult to rhyme. I find it really hard to rhyme. If this is the measure, the limit, of citizenship that Mr Kuzu is striving for and we see what is happening, then I just think we are in the wrong party to discuss citizenship. We have a very different opinion on this in the Chamber. We have very different ideas about how you treat each other with respect and look at each other, namely that gays can go hand in hand across the street and that you can be an atheist without being talked about, but also that the Netherlands is your country without putting another country above it. I find it hard to rhyme. It's actually a gothpel that's being talked about like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u23	What's a goddess is that once again a people's representative of the VVD is holding a bullshit story here that I or any of my party here in the House of Representatives would have made a point that gays shouldn't go hand in hand and that we would have made a point that you couldn't be an atheist in this country. Cut the crap, I would like to tell you, and get to the bottom of what we are actually saying. What we are actually saying is that citizenship is part of our common identity, that it is a matter of fulfilling duties and rights, such as freedom of expression and freedom of religion. That's what today's about. I would like to call everyone to talk about that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u24	I would like to thank Mr Kuzu for asking for the debate, because I think it is important and it is an important subject. Mr Kuzu himself addresses the freedom of religion. That is why I ask him: does this include the freedom to abandon a religion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u25	Yeah, that's one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u27	Mr Kuzu is talking about all kinds of rights that people have. He seems to be a strong supporter of the rule of law and citizenship education. I'm a former teacher of social studies myself. In this civic education, we are also trying to clarify the important role that parliament has in our democracy. Is Mr Kuzu prepared to say here that he will stop demonising only Islamic MPs who take a displeasure stand against him? Is he willing to do that? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u28	What is really very explicit is that we believe that representatives of the people, from any party, and from the left to the right, should be able to be honest about their views, that they should account for them, and that they should be accountable to the people for whom they are concerned. And yes, in the previous period, I say very emphatically, we made those videos. But I would also like to make it very clear that you cannot catch us making videos after the 21 March elections, where we have specific targets in the ethnic background of our fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u29	My question focused on the fact that the group of DENK regularly put Islamic MPs or MPs with a Turkish background, for example, on movies because they took a different view than DENK is acceptable. We have the debate here. I speak to you now, and you may address me later. This is where the debate belongs. Are you prepared to stop these demonizing videos in which you profile ethnically and only appeal to MPs with an Islamic background or background from another country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u30	Looks like I'm talking for deaf ears. I think I have made it very clear that from 15 March 2017, in the period in which we form this House of Representatives, we have not profiled colleagues on the basis of an ethnic background, and that we will not do so in the future either. We did in the previous period, because we found and saw that a number of MPs from different political parties here in the Lower House kept a very different story than in the outside world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u31	The flag isn't really out of here yet, but let's see this as progress. And let's actually keep it. Mr Kuzu says: those five parliamentarians in the newspaper, I did not do that. Fine. What you have done is give an interview to a Turkish newspaper in which you yourself call candidate members: question them and let them express their opinion. What you do is, in a Turkish medium Turkish-Dutch candidate council members who run for office in a Dutch municipality, appeal to these people to question it. Well, at least that's a very wonderful thing to do, isn't it? If I want to mobilise people for the city council, I don't give an interview to CNN or Al-Jazeera, apart from the fact that I don't get a lot of calls from the media, but that's a second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u32	There are plenty of colleagues from the various political parties in the Lower House who do. I would like to answer this question in two ways. One. The Netherlands is not an island. We often talk about internationalisation and in this committee we often talk about internationalisation of education. This means that we need to speak our languages, and that also means that we can give interviews to different news media, whether they are American news channels or Turkish news channels. Yeah, I'll keep doing that. Let me just be very honest about that, too. I'll keep doing that. I will continue to do that with various international media; I have an interview with a German medium next week. But I find it very typical that when I talk to a German medium, for example, there is no commotion in this Chamber but when it comes to a Turkish medium it does. The second part of your question concerns the call I made. I also firmly believe that everyone, all the candidate municipal council members, I say very strongly to all the candidate municipal council members, and I have also said that I should be accountable for their ideas and dare to be honest about their views. I wonder what's wrong with that. Explain it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr Kuzu speaks better Turkish than I; then it will be the translation, because I have read back that it was specifically about Turkish-Dutch candidates. They were even specifically Turkish-Dutch candidates of D66. I don't understand why people are joining that party, but that's another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u34	Among other things, D66 and the VVD, I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u35	But these are Turkish-Dutch candidates. Mr Kuzu is now very surprised and says: I have said that all candidate Council members must speak out. Then let me rephrase. Does Mr Kuzu have the idea that a lot of people born in the Netherlands, cream-white city council members, have been addressing their position on the Armenian genocide in the past campaign?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u36	Once again, on the subject of translation, I have made it very clear that it concerns all the candidate Council members. You can check that with the translation. In the meantime, I think everyone in the Netherlands has been able to take note of what I have said. I can't measure whether people who are "cream white," as you say, have been questioned about that. I don't know. However, it is interesting that we are constantly being questioned here in the House of Representatives and that candidate-members without Turkish background are also questioned in different municipal councils about their views on the Armenian issue, but that I do not see the same staggering attitude emerging among the other political parties. I really think that's a testimonial of the double size in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mr Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u38	This is what we know: it's all back to the other. But is Mr Kuzu's reaction really that he finds it difficult to estimate whether children born in the Netherlands, Jansen and De Jong, were addressed during the municipal campaign on what they think of the Armenian genocide? Is that his defence: "I have asked everyone, but yes, that in the end only my appeal to Turkish-Dutch candidates is being answered, yes I do not know; that is a coincidence"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u39	It does seem logical to me that this is not the case. But what I do find interesting, and I do not hear that in Mr Kwint's follow-up question, is that candidate council members who have no Turkish background, who have an Iraqi, Pakistani or Frisian background, are constantly questioned by the other political parties about what they think of the Armenian issue. Someone can explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u40	Because you're turning it into a campaign item!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u41	No, but I want to distance myself from that. It was not DENK that requested a debate on the Armenian issue. In 2006, there was a motion by the Christian Union that actually described the issue as genocide. This happened again in 2015. This happened again in 2018. The Christian Union insisted on having a general consultation on one day, having a VAO and even having votes on the same day, just before the spring recess. And nobody really asks the question: what is the interest of the Christian Union or of the coalition parties to have all these AOs, VAOs and votes so close to each other? We are having a debate tonight on citizenship education, but this has finally been transformed into a debate on what Kuzu has been up to in recent times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u42	Rounding off; don't worry, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u43	Let's just talk about citizenship education after that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u44	Hey, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u45	...I find it really impossible for you to say first that you don't know who it was asked, then blame others for turning it into a campaign item, and then make an appeal to candidate council members themselves. Should we do that in a non-campaign-related context? Or should we wait until after the election? Because that's what you should have said in that interview.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u46	That is also what I said in that interview. I mentioned exactly this point during that interview. We're being accused of constantly cutting and sticking things. Well, there's been a little cut out of that interview and the context has been completely removed. Again, quite clearly: DENK is not the party that is constantly aggregating the Armenian issue here before April 24th. It is in particular the Christian Union and other Christian parties, the right flank of this Chamber, who constantly bring this issue to the House of Representatives. In 2005/2006, in 2015 and in 2018: it has already happened three times, and there is no one standing up and wondering why that is actually happening. Why are people being turned against each other so close to a city election? And then again, yes, DENK did it! I think that's way too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u47	Mr. Rudmer Heerema, you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u48	That's right, but I have one clear question, Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Kuzu's answer to Mr Rog's question on how to deal with videos has made us a success. The answer was very clear: we are not doing this period anymore; from now on that is over. So there's a break with the previous period. During that previous period, my colleague Mr Straus tabled a motion calling on the government to support all teachers and school leaders to give Dutch values a central role in education and to speak out against self-censorship. When I hear Mr Kuzu's plea about good citizenship education, I can well imagine that there may be a break with the past in this respect too, and that this motion, which he did not support at the time, is now perhaps one of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u49	I can't imagine the circumstances and context for a moment, but I think that motion was tabled in response to the Worlds of Difference report. Let us be clear about this: when it comes to equality, that is fine with us. You are now reading a piece of a motion that I cannot find out, but I would like to promise you that I will look up that motion and give you the argument on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u50	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u51	Yeah, finally. We're talking about citizenship education today. You yourself state: I would also like to give you something today, particularly with regard to curriculum renewal. This was a motion that was just about that, and I think that is a very large part of what you are asking for. That is why I am asking whether there is a break with the past. There isn't yet, but it would be nice if there was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u52	We have always been clear about our commitment to civic education. We do not see a number of points coming back sufficiently, and we wonder what is on the role and what is going on right now. We will also ask the Minister about this. That is why my first question to the Minister is: when can we expect this bill? Will citizenship be included in a pluralist society as a centrally tested end goal, as DENK has indicated before? Is it true that, in secondary education, citizenship education is only included in the third class and that no figures are given, so that pupils have no incentive to make an effort? That's probably what the VVD's for. The Minister's letter contains pious wishes, but there is nothing about financial resources. According to the Minister, isn't this necessary? If so, can the Minister explain why he doesn't think this is necessary? International comparative studies show that citizenship education in the Netherlands is poor. The performance in the Netherlands is lagging behind when you look at the countries that look the most like us, such as Belgium and the Scandinavian countries. DENK finds this worrying. The picture of the ICCS study confirms previous studies on the state of citizenship education: there is too little focus and coherence, there is too little coherence in the workplace between school policy and the citizenship goals, there is no schools of good and effective examples, there is too little direction in their social task, there are different teaching methods used alongside each other, the equal rights of men, women, ethnic minorities, I hope that the VVD, which also finds an important topic, is less supported in the Netherlands than in other countries, and the level of knowledge between pupils is very different; a third knows very much, a third average and a third very little. Mr President, concluding. In his letter of 7 November, Minister Slob stated that the ICCS study did not give him any optimism. That's what they call an understatement. That is why we ask DENK to take action from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u54	Previously, it was about what is the reason for this debate: what is the outcome of this debate? Then Mr Kuzu said that he was going to point to what that curriculum should be about. Actually, I totally missed that. At the end, a call for action follows because the level of knowledge of the pupils is apparently not sufficient. What should the teachers in charge of the curriculum review do, according to Mr Kuzu? Because "action" doesn't mean anything to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u55	I mentioned a number of things. We need to focus on coherence. There is little coherence in the workplace between school policy and the objectives we have with citizenship. We can give effective examples. Schools receive too little direction in their social task. Different teaching methods are used side by side. I have spoken about fundamental rights, which I think are very important and which I think are worth including in the coalition agreement, rather than singing the Wilhelmus in choir, which D66 has agreed to. I think there's still a whole world to win.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u56	I'm gonna take one thing out. "Several teaching methods are used." This is the case in many subjects in the Netherlands. For mathematics you have different teaching methods, for French, for history. However, according to Mr Kuzu, DENK believes that there should be no different teaching methods for citizenship. Is Mr Kuzu now calling for some kind of state method of giving citizenship in Dutch education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u57	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're picking out one part of it. What matters is coherence. If we look at the different components that can promote cohesion, there is still a whole world to win. A report of 200 pages has been written which I believe Mr Van Meenen is also aware of. Plenty of handouts, plenty of things to do at this point. I am very curious about D66's contribution on what she thinks can be done better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u58	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u59	We will keep a little more distance and leave the people who know it to work. I can tell you that. But still, I'll come to that, because you say it, Mr. Kuzu, I say it through the chairman. You say that different teaching methods are used and that you don't like it. As a former teacher, I'm gonna take a look at that as well. We in the Netherlands talk about what and what and the government is about what. That's what citizenship can be about. But how is the schools, or does Mr Kuzu see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u60	How nice that Mr Van Meenen tells me how the Netherlands is doing! I am talking, once again, about focus and about coherence. I have mentioned a number of aspects very explicitly. Finally, I would like to say that I find it very special that Mr Van Meenen, as a coalition party, is at a distance and says 'let us let the professionals do their job, let the minister do his job'. I remember when things were very different in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u61	Mr President, Mr Kuzu is already leaving, but I am not finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u62	Yes, but you really need to finish, Mr. Van Meenen. One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u63	Look, Mr Kuzu can say 'it is very unfortunate that Mr Van Meenen is going on and on about the fact that one teaching method must be used', but I do not come up with that for nothing. After all, part of our society is precisely that freedom of education, which he is also in favour of, I assume, and which allows schools in the Netherlands to use different teaching methods. Mr Kuzu says that it is a thorn in his eye that different teaching methods are being used. Those are his words, not mine. That's what I'm talking to him about. So I ask him one more time: is this a serious point? Does he want there to be only one teaching method, yes or no? If not, what is the value of what he just said about it bothers him that there are multiple teaching methods?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u64	In my opinion, the freedom of education in our Constitution is not about the teaching method we use. I am concerned now with the fact that the experts and professionals, whom Mr Van Meenen very much likes to listen to, write in the report that too many different teaching methods are being used, which means that there are too few handles and too little direction is given to citizenship education in the Netherlands. This should be reviewed critically, so that we give schools, school boards and teachers more direction in what we intend to do with citizenship education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u65	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I really need to respond. Citizenship is also about rights, about fundamental rights. I must point out to Mr Kuzu that Article 23 of our Constitution stipulates that we do have the freedom to organise education. For example, this leaves schools free to choose their teaching methods. If Kuzu then resorts to people who seem to think that there are too many methods, it is, of course, his right to take that view, but I am afraid of that. I would therefore ask Mr Kuzu to reconsider this, because that means that he really intervenes in the freedom of education. He shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u66	No, it's not my intention to interfere in the freedom of education. I would point out that due to the different teaching methods used in citizenship education, there is too little coherence and focus, as the researchers also conclude in their report. It follows from this that our pupils score worse on citizenship competences compared to those from other countries. That is what I said and in that context it should be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u67	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Citizenship is essentially about how to deal with other people in a good way," says the authors of the report comparing citizenship competences of Dutch pupils with those of pupils from other countries. According to GroenLinks, however, the main conclusion of this report is not that Dutch schools do too little about citizenship, but that young people have the impression that their opinion does not matter and that they have little to say. Let that be the crux of citizenship. We don't just change that with citizenship classes at school. If we really want young people to learn better how to relate to society, we should not only see this as a task for teachers, but we should ask young people themselves what they need. I am not surprised that young people who have little to say at school, who depend on the decisions of adults, who are not allowed to vote, let alone run for election, are not always motivated. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday at the farewell of the Nijmegen city council, a former member of the group told us about his greatest success. That wasn't some high-profile prestige project, but he called it the Nijmegen Children's Council. The idea is actually as follows. Children come up with a project and will present it under the guidance of a councilman at City Hall. The best idea is carried out together with the children as much as possible, because citizenship is not only that you put the government to work; it also means that you put your own hands up. Slightly older children may advise the municipality. An opinion from the Children's Council is treated as seriously as any other advice. The city council discusses the idea and the college of mayor and aldermen responds with a letter in understandable language. My question to the Minister is: is this not an even better way to involve children at a younger age than to have them come to the House of Representatives once, as stated in the coalition agreement? Would the Minister perhaps help to bring this kind of fine initiative to the attention of more municipal councils? I'll at least do that. I hope that council members will listen to this debate, so that hopefully as many new coalition agreements as possible will say that more attention should be paid to children and young people in their own municipality. Mr. Chairman. As I said, young people want to contribute to society, but they must of course be given the opportunity. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we encourage young people, regardless of whether they become trainers at the local football club, are active in scouting, in a political youth organisation or in the participation of the school. Unfortunately, many young people are also too busy for this. I'd like to know from the Minister if he might see a connection to the performance pressure at school. Does it ensure that fewer young people become active? I'd like a response. At many universities and to a lesser extent in colleges there is a game for student organisations. Can we also promote student organisations and participation on the MBO? When I was president of the National Student Union, I got a board scholarship. However, most youth organisations are fairly moderately compensated. Back in 2009, Minister Plasterk announced that he wanted to increase the number of national government grants from 20 to 40. I would then like to ask the Minister, President-in-Office of the Council, whether he sees any other possibility of better supporting young people who are active. I hope that we will take the responsibility of getting young people ready for society and not just putting it on the school board.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Citizenship is an essential part of our education. In addition to knowledge transfer and cognitive development, personal development and citizenship must also be part of education. Fortunately, a lot of passionate teachers daily do their best to bring students into this beautiful subject matter. Many of them also visit us here in the House of Representatives. Still, there's still a lot to win. For example, international research shows that Dutch young people have already been mentioned as giving less importance to elections and intend to vote less than young people in similar countries. In view of last week's elections and in some municipalities, including mine: The Hague, sad turnout rates, this is worrying news. Dutch young people also indicate that there is less attention to citizenship here and less activity such as debating, talking about the way things are going at school or elections to the student council. How does the Minister view these outcomes? More importantly, what is the cabinet going to do about it? What is the Minister going to do in the field of human rights education? Does he agree with us that citizenship education plays an important role in countering radicalisation and polarisation and in strengthening media wisdom? These themes are more topical than ever in our present world. What does the Minister do with the implementation of my adopted motion on the occasion of #MeToo, with which the Chamber asked the government to ensure that primary schools and secondary schools constitute sexual resilience, security and diversity in the curriculum? On this subject, we sometimes see the embarrassment of teachers, which also applies to more important issues in the area of citizenship. That is why, as far as we are concerned, the training and further training of teachers is so important, both in order to overcome the obstacles to action and to keep up with knowledge. Think of relatively recent developments such as online cross-border behaviour and all new insights in this area. What role does the Minister see for himself in this? Does the Minister also see opportunities for e-learning in this context? The key objectives of sexuality and sexual diversity in primary and secondary education do not apply in the same way to secondary education and MBO. There is a citizenship mission, but themes in the field of sexuality and sexual resilience are still too little in our opinion, especially when we look at the age at which young people become sexually active on average in the Netherlands, on average over 18 years. How does the Minister view that? Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that we are basing our research on this evening: the International Civic & Citizenship Education Study. To our surprise and many more, we thought we read that the cabinet would no longer wish to participate in it and would henceforth only monitor it nationally. That would seem to us to be a missed opportunity, because precisely the combination of both studies is a good measure to keep track of the progress and success of the Dutch effort. We would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared, if this were the case, to reconsider the Dutch participation in ICCS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you. I see that Mr Bertema has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u72	I have one more question for clarification. Mrs Van den Hul talks about the core goals, including sexuality, in the MBO. She says that all kinds of things that go with #MeToo are not mentioned in that. You seem to have looked it up. Is that so? Because I come from the MBO and I do not know better than that we have talked about it in detail every year. It often comes up on its own. But is it true that it is not formally in those objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u73	No. That's not what I said either. As far as we're concerned, it's not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u74	Not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u75	There's a citizenship assignment. I'm sure you know that better than I do. Fortunately, as you say, many schools often talk about it, and indeed often talk about it as a result of current events. That's what I've been through several times during guest lessons myself. But there are teachers, also in the MBO, who are acting shy and who are not able to give hands and feet to the assignment, which is indeed there. And that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u76	Okay, I'll get that. Those core targets do mention some things, but you do not think it is enough. There's got to be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u77	Yes. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u78	Well, then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u79	Okay. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u80	Thank you, Mr President. We have been arguing for a long time: citizenship is one of the traditional characteristics of education. Since education, cultural heritage and the traditions of one generation have been passed on to the next. Teachers and teachers not only have the responsibility to transfer knowledge, skills and competences. They must also give their pupils the basic values that are the conditions for them to become, with some weight, an animated link, of citizens in their own family, neighbourhood or city, as citizens of the Netherlands, as citizens of the wider western civilisation. A civilization that doesn't know its equal, with all its splendor in culture and science, art and rule of law. Education which neglects this task, or which, by reason of the delusion of the day, makes the importance of this animated relationship relevant, does an inalienable damage to the continuity of our civil society and, therefore, of our society. What has been built over centuries can be irreparablely damaged in a few decades so that there is no longer a close society. Then there are divisions and groups of citizens retreating into parallel societies. That is a scare: a fragmented society in which there is no animated connection. And it's going fast. Parallel societies are already a fact. Let me give you an example. Where did the citizen in question go around the Ambachtsplein in Rotterdam-Sevenkamp? We heard about it yesterday. Children between the ages of 8 and 12 terrorize a mall there. They set off fireworks in the shops, empty the shelves, swear people out, fight a shopkeeper who doesn't take it and then gets beat up by a parent. Mr President, it seems a silly example in the context of this debate, but it is not. 'Cause nobody does anything on that Crafts Square. We have become a country that cannot even defend itself against the terror of children. In such a country, that animated connection has disappeared. It's powerless. Police and justice and education leave the public in the cold. We do see a great deal of embarrassment in many areas, but also in teachers in mulitcultural schools, in the case of the Second World War, in the case of the Holocaust, in the case of equal justice between homosexuals and heterosexuals, men and women. They are all symptoms of an education that is no longer able to pass on citizenship. The Minister acknowledges in his letter that the assignment to education is too non-binding. "Take this to heart," I say to the Minister. The PVV has always advocated giving students Dutch citizenship. The Dutchmanship is more than just a passport. The Dutchmanship is about identity, about connection to the legacy of our ancestors. They've built this country into what it is. However, the delusion of the day now writes for the great majority of teachers that the Dutch identity does not exist, that our cultural heritage is contaminated, that our sea heroes are criminals, that our culture is too white and therefore guilty. That's gotta stop. The Minister is in favour of putting an end to this non-committalism with a law. It should be able to explicate knowledge and promote skills in terms of democracy and the rule of law, human rights and connection. That is a good goal, but that law can only succeed if all these things are approached from the perspective of the shared Dutch values, the history of the Netherlands and also from a will to belong to the Netherlands. If we let that go, our land will be lost in fragmentation and polarization. Only if we stick to that will we have a chance to survive as a country, because without "we" it will not work. I'd like a response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was an alarming headline in the daily newspaper that gave rise to this debate. The headline was "Social Studies at School Fails." But that headline also deserves nuance, because the international research on which the statement was based is currently being done only among 14-year-old students, and they do not yet have the profession of social studies, a subject that is primarily about the rule of law, democracy and politics. I assume that the profession of social studies in that later age phase compensates a lot, but at the same time it is also worrying that one third of the 14-year-olds do not have sufficient citizenship skills. The proportion of pupils with these competences has certainly increased in recent years. This is a good development, but it does not mean that we can rest on our laurels, because our youngsters still score low compared to their peers in other countries. They form the global middle ground and are at the bottom of the European list. This is an observation which has also given rise to various cabinet measures, to various proposals in the coalition agreement which will also simply be implemented. The cabinet intends to strengthen the citizenship mandate, give citizenship a stronger place in our curriculum and review new schools there. We welcome these measures and have also been included in the coalition agreement on the initiative of the CDA. The continuous learning path citizenship will also be developed, in that curriculum renewal we were just talking about. Moreover, the Chamber has the motion-Rog c.s. The Commission has adopted a proposal which calls on the government to further strengthen the position of social studies by giving greater weight to the examination. I would like to hear from the Minister what steps he has taken or is going to take to put this statement into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u83	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing a beautiful and important subject today. Thank you, therefore, to Mr Kuzu for requesting this debate. Often the debate on education deals with how to prepare children and young people for a place on the labour market, but citizenship deals with another, extremely relevant branch of education, namely: how to prepare children for a place in society? It is not without reason that we have been actively fighting for years against segregation in education, for example, because the first lessons on how to deal with conflicting opinions and beliefs in society are taught in classrooms. It is essential to go to school together. My question is immediately: how is the legal obligation for municipalities and schools to consult each year on combating segregation? A colleague of mine asked this question earlier in the AO Integration, but he was referred to this debate. So I thought: I'll take that for Mr Van Dijk. For the lover who sits at home to browse: that obligation is set out in Article 167a of the Law on Primary Education. Why? Because citizenship is more than just a profession. Citizenship may take place even more between classes, in the square, in mathematics or language, when a teacher hears that one person is calling the other for fucking homosexuals, immediately closes the textbooks and talks to the class about why that is said. That is a teacher who also has the space to do so, who does not avoid a conversation about Holocaust, not out of fear of what his students say, nor out of fear of the backwardness of his teaching program. But when it comes to filling in the box, the development teams are the move. The report is a cause for concern, especially when we hear that the Netherlands has decided no longer to participate in an international competition on citizenship. Mrs Van den Hul referred to it as well. Now I'm the last to say that those kinds of investigations are delicious, but I'm curious about the choice. Why would you stop doing that? Like I said, citizenship for the SP starts with going to school together. That is why I was shocked when I read in Trouw that the number of children has increased considerably, which is exempt from the obligation to register at a school, because parents happen to believe something that is not available in the wide range of religious beliefs on the basis of which you are allowed to set up a school. Let me drop the door in the house: the SP wants to get rid of this. If your esoteric, salafistic, reformatorical or Buddhist beliefs are none of them fictitious examples of exemptions by the way,.............................................................................................................................................. Then you can teach your kids those values outside of school. Of course, the cabinet has announced steps, but why would you set up a very separate branch of home education inspection to see how to better shape and control that, if you can just stop doing so? It is sometimes unfortunate but inevitable that children will be granted an exemption if appropriate education or special education cannot provide a solution. But if the parents happen to have a fairly marginal belief in that particular environment, that is no reason for us not to send a child to school, because children learn in a classroom. They learn not only language and mathematics, but also live together. There begins the teaching of citizenship, the critical learning and asking questions about the beliefs of your classmates, about the beliefs of the teacher, but certainly also about your parents' beliefs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u85	It seems to be a very different debate. It's about homeschooling now. I hear the SP now giving a number of qualifications at home education where dogs don't like bread. I would very much like to have a debate here on home education and on the freedom of people to set up home education. But for the sake of clarity, you are now in favour of abolishing home education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u86	I call for the exemption from compulsory school registration to be abolished on philosophical grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u87	This gives home education a very big kick, so that it can no longer exist. I understand that from your words. You're going to be very formalistic about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u88	I thought it was a specific question that deserved a specific answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u89	Okay. So we can conclude that the SP wants to get rid of home education. Just be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u90	Yes. The SP wants to get rid of home education on the basis of an exemption on religious grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u91	Each party is, of course, very much in favour of taking any position it wishes. But Mr Kwint of the SP is now going to use a 30-member debate based on a newspaper article to set up a law enshrined in the Constitution. I really think it's of a level... Does Mr Kwint know that there are also issues of home education in the government agreement and that we will simply have proper legal treatment on this issue as well? That is where Mr Kwint can express all his views on any TV programme. He has plenty of room to debate this with the Minister in a thorough manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u92	Two paragraphs ago, I said: of course, the cabinet has announced new steps. Then there was a whole paragraph. So, yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u93	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u94	Yes, in the meantime. Of course, there was a reason why we all said this, which is the point that children learn in a classroom. They learn not only language and mathematics, but also live together, for there begins the teaching of citizenship, the critical thinking and the questioning. I'm very curious about the government's response. We want a parent's faith to no longer determine whether or not a child goes to school, but only whether a child can handle it physically or psychologically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u95	Thank you. I call Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u96	Mr. Chairman. It is good that citizenship education will be more firmly anchored. Children at school need to know that we live in a country where it's normal to participate in this society, that you can be an atheist, that it doesn't matter who you love, that you have respect for another, that you live in a country where you can freely have your own opinion, without the government restricting it. You learn this as a child at school, among other things, in the field of citizenship. But how is citizenship in the Netherlands now? I'm a little worried about that. One in nine teachers does not dare to touch on certain subjects in the classroom, for fear of negative or aggressive reactions. An example. There are classes where there are cheers after there has been a terrorist attack. Those children like it and rightly so that many innocent people die. I got to teach in a class like that the other day, and I was really bewildered when I saw those kids kick each other's ass. In these classes, I think our Western freedoms are simply under pressure. It is incredibly difficult to address an important subject like this in front of a class full of yelling children. It seems that too many children do not want to accept that we are a country where we respect each other and where we take each other's opinions seriously, although you believe in the greatest possible nonsense and sometimes you are in another country. I have one question for the Minister. Is there sufficient attention in the curriculum of teacher training to the way in which citizenship education is handled in classrooms, and in particular, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of the way in which classrooms are dealt with where the conversation about this can cause a lot of tension? We need to put the teacher in his or her power. The classroom must be safe and the student must understand that normal behavior is a prerequisite for participation in our society. The teacher plays a very important role in this. That is why it is important that we strengthen citizenship education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u97	Mr Heerema gives a few nice examples of how Islamic pupils are doing in mainstream education, i.e. public or Christian education. I don't know where you taught. I've been through that myself. These are the regular schools, but how do you think it goes in the Islamic schools? It's gonna get a little worse there. There is no room at all for citizenship as we interpret it, but it is interpreted from the Islamic principles. I call the equal treatment of men and women and of homosexuals and heterosexuals and so on; you know the list. Do you trust that citizenship in Islamic schools is given in the right way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u98	I've always taught in public schools from my liberal background. I call it urban gymnasium in Alkmaar. The problem was not there, but at the public black school in Alkmaar where I worked. The question focuses very specifically on Islamic schools. We now have a curriculum review. Today we have seen what the first concept is, including for citizenship education. I share with you that this is perhaps a very good time to see whether the revision of citizenship education in Islamic schools is well embraced. If that is not the case, we will have to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u99	'Then we will have to intervene', that sounds quite forceful. Suppose all the key targets are not met there. We can almost certainly know that except when the inspection comes to visit, but during the homework guidance very other things happen. If all this is clear now, are you prepared to take a very critical view of the closure of Islamic education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u100	I don't think you can take the Islamic education under one heading. In the previous period, however, we fought together against the Islamic university. The VVD and the PVV together. My colleague Duisenberg picked it up with you. You're asking me to think with you if that's what it takes. I am prepared to do so, because I am prepared to continue what we have picked up together in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u101	How cool that the VVD wants to think along with the PVV on closing Islamic schools. Let me also make it clear: when things are not in order and go against rules and laws that we have agreed with each other, there must be sufficient opportunities for that. I would also like to ask the same attitude of the VVD where researchers conclude that the equal rights of men and women in civic education are under pressure, but also that of ethnic minorities and migrants. Is the VVD also willing to think about this with DENK?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u102	I had made a text that was too long for my three minutes. So thank you for giving me this opportunity. I have a bit left over that the ICCS report shows that we in the Netherlands still have to make a move. My second heading is that basic words such as equal rights for men and women, equal rights for migrants and equal rights for ethnic groups in the Netherlands are to a lesser extent endorsed than in many other countries. So that's a point of interest. I omitted that whole list because of time, but I can do it here. We believe that this is an important point of attention, as well as that the PVV offers to think with when it is needed. I've never talked to you on the phone about certain things, but if you call me, I'm always willing to speak to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u103	Mr. President, Mr. Herma can always call me. I'm gonna take it a little further. When we see that political parties in this House of Representatives offer unconstitutional and unjust solutions, then... That just happened: let's close Islamic education. That's the purpose of the PVV. You have also answered that in a way that is yours. When institutions cross the line, it doesn't matter whether they're Islamic or whatever other basis they have. Do you understand that the very position of the people you want to represent, namely ethnic minorities and migrants, will be under pressure when you indicate that you are giving a political party a handshake that is unjust and unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u104	I don't think in groups like you do. I was asked by my colleague from the PVV to stop the Islamic education at the moment when the Islamic education goes beyond the norm. In my view, I have given a nuanced answer to this, namely that it is not about education but about institutions that are out of line. In my view, we must intervene at the time when the law and the like are being violated. I am certainly prepared to do so when that is the case. Whether there are groups in the Netherlands who are concerned that I am doing things with a party that you might have to deal with, is surely a bit of your problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u105	Mr Heerema just spoke about these groups himself. He mentioned ethnic minorities and migrants in his contribution which he was unable to read out due to lack of time. I think those are clearly defined groups. The question is very specific: are you prepared to cooperate with parties and bodies that have unconstitutional and unjust views, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u106	This is really a caricature. I was just reading something about migrants and ethnic groups, namely that there must of course be good integration in the Netherlands and that they should also receive good citizenship education. And that's why I shouldn't be working with parties in the Chamber? That is total nonsense!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u107	That's not my question. My question is whether you are prepared to cooperate with parties, bodies in society and organisations, not only here in the Chamber but also outside the Chamber, who have unconstitutional and unjust ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u108	I am prepared to cooperate in the Chamber with any party elected by law. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u109	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u110	Mr President, this is exactly where I wanted to go. The VVD states that it wishes to cooperate with parties in the Chamber who have been elected by law. Then the VVD should also be able to cooperate with parties outside this Chamber who have ideas that are also constitutional, namely ideas about freedom of association. This is also a good thing that we have agreed with each other in this country as a fundamental right. Then I wonder: why with one party and not with the other? Unfortunately, I note a double measure that affects many citizens in this country very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mr President, let me conclude that I could even work with Mr Kuzu. Here we go again. That's how we keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u112	Mr. Kuzu, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u113	Mr President, such a remark is, of course, very unfortunate. "Even with Mr. Kuzu"! I stand here arguing for our Constitution, for our rule of law. I ask you, Mr. Lordema, to work with parties that have unconstitutional and unjust ideas. And then your reaction is: yes, I am even willing to work with Mr Kuzu. That's a lame answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u114	Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerema of the VVD notes that one in nine teachers avoids sensitive subjects in the classroom and, therefore, at least, I deduce from what he says that more attention should be paid to citizenship. I went over that report, too. It is about segregation and many teachers recognize that there is increasing segregation. They also often say that they need more time and attention, both for the students and for each other, to stay in conversation. Has Mr Heerema read this in this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u116	The fact that one in nine teachers does not dare to deal with issues that are important, and that the conclusion is that we need to have better citizenship education, is not my order. I made the theorem the other way around. We need better citizenship education, the first sentence of my speech, and one example of this is that one in nine teachers does not try to address issues in the classroom. That was the construction of my speech. It's an example. There are many examples. This example of the one in nine teachers has also been included in a newspaper article. I know that today the concept of citizenship education has been published. I haven't gone through it yet, but I think that's a good benchmark that we can see what they need, what they're planning and whether it's something we can finally support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u117	Perhaps it is short speaking time, because three minutes is short, I am aware of that. And maybe now I'm jumping to conclusions from what I've heard. My question remains. Have you also seen what teachers indicate that teachers need more time to discuss sensitive subjects with students?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u118	I didn't take that out so clearly. If it is, it could very well be. Fortunately, it is not very often that there are so many sensitive issues to discuss every week. It also seems to me to be something of customization for schools, like with the Twin Towers at the time. We could then take a long time to do so. I was a teacher myself at the time and my school was very generous with that. We were able to decide how much time we spent in the classroom, not only with social teacher but also with other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u119	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party. After the first deadline, we're gonna agree on the number of interruptions. No, no, you've been really neat, Mrs. Westerveld. I'm not going to name any other names. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u120	Thank you, Madam President. When I was a teacher, we had discussions. Then we asked, "What do you think of gays?" Then several people raised their finger and said, "We think that's dirty, sir." That was the starting point for the conversation. The moment you heard "we think that's dirty, sir," that was a shock. Yet we had a conversation and came to a discussion. That doesn't take away anything from the fact that that's pretty shocking. Mr. Chairman. Dutch students may not know enough about equal rights, democratic society and peaceful society. That's what headlined the A.D. In the international context, the Netherlands scores low on the implementation of social studies and citizenship. That's what we're gonna talk about. Citizenship is defined as knowledge students have about democratic society, its underlying principles and its application. Thank you to Mr Kuzu for having requested this debate. We want to talk about these underlying principles and their application. What underlying principles are we talking about? Can we name it? Is there a hook to make to the curriculum review that is now going on? Is it wise to do that? The answer is four times "yes, that's wise." We had a wonderful start day on March 8 from Curriculum.nu with nine teacher development teams, one of which was about citizenship. As a Party for Animals, we believe that sustainability is a kind of underlying principle. Understanding and applying it will benefit citizenship. Sustainability means to us: acting in the here and now in relation to the there and later. What influence do unsustainable choices have over the long term on discrimination, pollution and job insecurity? How do non-sustainable choices affect the relationship between labour and capital, its remuneration, income and capital differences, dealing with our environment and dealing with our fellow residents? Let me give you an example: yesterday or the day before yesterday, we saw a Prime Minister who calls as proud as a peacock that the Netherlands is the fifth economy of the European Union. Prosperity he's very proud of. But he doesn't mention that it takes 2.7 globes. In a CPB study of 200 years, a study that does not know her equal, just came out of the CPB, it says that our prosperity is extremely vulnerable, precisely because we are so very interested in raw materials, fossil, mineral and labor. To gain understanding for the longer term, for later and for there, at that age... The minister was there, we have seen that the prefrontal cortex of young people is still developing, making long-term thinking a problem anyway. These young people have to deal with room rental, tuition fees, the price of fruit and vegetables, but also with discrimination, self-development and so on. Mr. Chairman. I'm finishing up. There is not a great chance that such an environment will generate spontaneous insight into sustainability. In a time of selfies, selfies and selfies, and from "look at me!', "The palace I am," to speak to poetess Kate Tempest, doesn't really lend itself to reflection. So inclusion of sustainability in that development team is an integral part I wish to complete. We didn't see it in the command formulation. I'll show that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u122	I want to finish with good news. We didn't see it in the command formulation, but the very good news is that we saw teachers pick up the glove themselves and that's a good thing. Compliments. A good thing, and there is a lot of social support for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u123	Mr. Van Raan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u124	Co-operative Learning for Tomorrow, SustainableBy, Rethinking Economics, the time is now and let's cash the moment and move on, move on! Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I just had to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u125	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen is already coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u126	Mr. Chairman. It is a pity that Mr Kuzu has since left the Chamber, otherwise I was able to address him. Excuse me, chairman, what did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u127	I said, where is Mr Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u128	Well, it doesn't matter. Mr. Chairman. I am prepared to speak at any time about education or citizenship. These are wonderful subjects, but I have also exchanged them with Mr Kuzu in an interrupting debate. We have just recognised in recent years, even before the government agreement was reached, that there are major problems in citizenship education and that there is much to improve. This has also been confirmed in the investigation we are discussing today. But it is precisely in this coalition agreement that we recognise that and we have commissioned, within the framework of the new curriculum, to work on it. The risk of a debate like this, I think, is that it might lead to a situation where we will see it heading towards directions that are suddenly going to be handed over again. While I'm thinking, let's give the curriculum a little bit of space. I think that's the best way. At the same time, I must say that clearly, D66 does not close its eyes to the concerns that exist. Not even today. Those worries are big and they're wide. They focus on a lack of it, let me just call it "democratic consciousness," but also lack of being able to cope with differences. I do not want to spell that out again; that has already been done by others. Fortunately, work is now under way to get a clear citizenship mandate for schools in the law so that the inspection can monitor it. That is why my group welcomes the Minister's letter. We would like to hear from him what further planning is now for the implementation of this agreement. I would also point out that the coalition agreement will soon make it possible for all the children in our country to visit our beautiful parliament and to experience what democracy really means. I hope they didn't watch tonight. Mr. Chairman. The profession of a social studies teacher is not easy. The profession of no teacher is simple, but this is perhaps one of the most difficult professions. It requires agility and maintaining a tolerant and safe environment in the classroom. I can see I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u129	Yeah, it's fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u130	During a debate in the classroom, a social scholar must quickly determine whether a student's statement falls within the scope of freedom of expression or whether it is an expression of discrimination and bullying behaviour. It is constantly balancing between opposing extremist ideas and, at the same time, not censoring, between a critical attitude and preventing cynicism in which all sources of information and politicians are distrusted. That is why it is important that only qualified teachers should give the course, and I would like to say this once again that, as a government, but also as school leaders and administrators, we remain firmly behind these teachers. That is the case today, and it will be in the future. That's all I want to say right now, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u131	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u132	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u133	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its first-term input on a subject which, as the discussion has shown, concerns us all quite well, and I think it is right. The immediate reason for this debate is the ICCS study, which received a cabinet response in November 2017, which showed that Dutch children scored a bit less on citizenship knowledge and skills than those in other countries participating in that research. I think it is good to add that countries that we can compare well with are quite difficult to find in that research. Flanders and the Scandinavian countries are actually the only ones involved. Other countries which are very relevant to us, such as Germany, France and the United Kingdom, are not participating in this investigation. That also gives some indication of the limitations of the investigation. I'll come back to that separately later. We consider citizenship education to be important. Many of you have said warm words about why we consider this important, and I think that is what we find each other in together. We also know that for basic education the citizenship mandate is even laid down by law. This has already happened in 2006. That also indicates something. We believe that attention should be paid to this. I say to Mr Beertema that there is a great deal going on in citizenship education, in the sense that I have seen that in recent months, in my new responsibility too, many schools with a great deal of involvement in citizenship education are doing, also on the basis of the legal mandate there is, through projects, excursions, debate meetings and you can mention all the possibilities you see. I have also seen a lot of involved teachers who are also very intrinsically motivated with their students. That's a long way to go. Given the time, I'll give you just one example. It is a very recent example that I encountered in the beautiful village of Bergambacht. That's my own father's birthplace. It was at Christian Elementary School the Ark. Apparently, he's been on that too. They've even found historical evidence of that. During the municipal elections, a group of pupils studied all the programmes very intensively and invited list leaders to school. They've even been to a debate that they've been following and that they've evaluated with each other. In the end, they also loved the fact that I came there with a candidate council member who's related to me. We have talked very intensively with them about what being politically active means. They did that outside of school. Of course, I asked first if they were all there on a voluntary basis. That turned out to be the case. It was really heart-warming to see how much they were involved in such a subject and how the motivation of their teacher and their school leader to take them into it and actively organize all kinds of things also skipped over the children. Of course, we also know there's trouble. The word "trade embarrassment" is mentioned here. And indeed. There's a former professor of social studies here, and I recognize that, too. I know that from my colleagues from that time. I also know how there are sometimes struggles in schools with it, I would say, to keep pupils in the classroom to talk about difficult issues in an orderly manner, to avoid getting out of the way and to actively involve pupils. Sometimes it does indeed start, Mr. Van Raan gave an example of it in a very violent way, but there is a classroom where it can be spoken. As long as it's spoken. That is, of course, something that needs to be said. It doesn't always work. We see that the learning goals of citizenship formation in education are not always clear. We also see that there is sometimes too little insight into what it actually delivers in the educational outcomes of the pupils when they receive citizenship education. We can see that there is too much dependence on teachers, that sometimes they are unable to make the connection between school policy and citizenship objectives. In short, there is also something going on. A lot is going well, but we also see a number of deficits. That is why it is important to take action. Mr Kuzu called on me to do so. That is an encouragement that is not necessary in principle, because we are already working very actively on it. I mentioned in the letter in November what is a bit of the railway book that I am working on on this subject. And we haven't been idle. The legislative proposal should further clarify the citizenship mandate. It should also describe more specifically the common core of education, that is to say, what one should focus on at least. There is, of course, a lot of room for schools to give their own color, but there is also a common core. Think of respect, knowledge, skills with regard to the basic values of our democratic rule of law and also human rights, I say in the direction of Mrs Van den Hul who asked very strongly for this. The first work to be done on this bill is now almost complete. Then you can follow the internet consultation, and you will know the whole process before the bill ends up with you. But I'm assuming this calendar year's gonna work out. Then, if we feel this urgency deep together, we can do business quickly, I would say. Then we can quickly make sure that it is also legally properly laid down. This is not only important to clarify, also in the direction of schools, teachers, parents and so on, but it is also important for the inspection to have more control over what is happening in relation to citizenship in schools. In this way, we can also prevent it from concentrating only on the very important subjects that pay attention to this, because it must be much more interwoven throughout the whole school process, and also in the attitude you can expect from teachers on this important subject, even though they give very different subjects. So we're working hard on that. The second point is the curriculum review. That point has been mentioned by a number of you, by Mr Van Meenen in particular. He also indicated that this is a little premature, but I think it is nice that we can name it all together for a while. That curriculum review officially started a few weeks ago. Compliments for Mr Van Raan, because he was present and we have heard again this evening that he has a clear mission in it. We have even noticed that teachers are open to this. Citizenship is also an important theme in the curriculum review. One of the nine development teams is about this. You know that this debate has been on the agenda for two weeks straight. I know that those who sit on that team would otherwise have been sitting in the gallery if this debate had been last week or the week before. That wasn't gonna work today. Oh, I see two more are waving in the public gallery, so we welcome them. I am delighted that you have succeeded, I say through you, Madam President, to these people in the public gallery. I hope you'll allow me. The people in that development team are involved. I said when the teams started not only to this team, but also to the other teams: I'm with you, but I'm going to stand in front of you as well. Because they have to be able to do their job now. We give them peace and confidence to work on this subject as well. You know that financial resources have also been made available for this whole curriculum review. I believe that Mr Kuzu asked whether there were any resources involved. That is indeed the case. So now we give them the peace and confidence to get to work. And, of course, we are very curious about what will be the results of the work that this leading group is going to do on this important subject. Madam President, I would like to look again at the public gallery through you. Another step we're gonna go with each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u134	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u135	...who also has a firm faith in the development team Citizenship, and not only in the two people who are now sitting in the gallery. However, Mrs Westerveld has just said it in an interrupting debate: in my opinion, we cannot confine citizenship education to actually teaching citizenship. That sounds somewhat contradictory, but as I have also tried to argue in my term, the formation of citizenship among pupils is also something that happens mostly in passing, so in a discussion that comes along. It also happens when teachers feel the space to close their books, get the whole class to do the same and start a conversation about a discussion that plays out in the classroom. So I would like to encourage the Minister to remain in talks with lecturers about this as well. This may not be a role that lies with the development team. How can you really give those teachers that space and trust to get that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u136	Then I would like to go back to what I mentioned first, also around the more legal definition of the core and what we can expect from schools. And all those involved in the schools should commit to that. That is exactly what I have tried to say, but I have not succeeded sufficiently. It must not depend solely on the few teachers in a school who have a very specific job in their field. But it would be very nice if also a teacher who gives a completely different course, for example English, would do that if something happens within such a class that affects the discussions that come with this. I think good teachers do. In fact, the book closes for a moment or the laptop, because some schools work with digital educational material and a discussion is held from heart to heart, cores are named, and this is also done from a certain attitude. I think that the law will also give some direction about what we simply expect in our Dutch education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u137	That leaves me with the next question. Of course, we have to give confidence to the process and the team that is currently working on it, but does the Minister expect everything to be ready for the 2019-2020 school year so that we can take all that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u138	That is the timetable in which we are. You know that timetable. That's also been communicated with you. Of course, it is still important that we should be given room here in the Chamber at the right moments for what we are going to do. Because when the teams are ready and they are involved in development schools, we will eventually have to look at them ourselves from our administrative responsibility. Then it must be enshrined in laws and regulations and it all comes to you. You know that's gonna take time. But we keep up the momentum, because it is indeed important. Of course, this whole process will also have to continue to work on this within the schools, with some less peripheral conditions and without curriculum reforms, i.e. with the existing possibilities, but it remains important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u139	So in any case, the Minister expresses the ambition that it will be possible to work with them in the 2019-2020 school year. I understand, of course, everything that can be frustrating in the process, but I hear the Minister respond positively to the question of whether the ambition is to start work in 2019-2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u140	I follow the timetable that has also been communicated to you on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u142	Mr. Chairman. Then a follow-up step, in addition to the curriculum review, is that there will also be support from schools and teachers in carrying out their legal task. In the direction of Mr Heerema, too, I would point out that this has already been taken into account in teacher training. Recently, in September, a joint citizenship agenda has even been issued that will apply for the coming years, which is particularly affecting the MBO. This has also been agreed with the MBO Council. But citizenship is also a part of current training. When we know exactly what we are going to do with the curriculum review, of course, the mirror must always be focused on teacher training. What consequences does it have for what is happening there? 'Cause it would be really weird if that link didn't get involved. I think you rightly pointed the finger at that. Those are, therefore, decent goals that we have set ourselves, which we are already working hard on and which we will talk about a lot and often in the coming period. But the importance of that is evident, I think. Then I come to the questions about the ICCS investigation that we are now talking about. In our view, that is not enough. It would now be carried out for the third time. We've been in on it twice. I have just indicated that the number of countries that are involved in this is very limited. There is another limitation: this research takes place only once every six years and the only group considered are the 14-year-olds in secondary education. I believe that, if I put it that way, I do not even need to draw any more conclusions. That's really limited. If I also tell you that we have to pay EUR 1 million for this, which is more than EUR 1 million, but around EUR 1 million; I should like to conclude by saying that I think that we should also spend that money. And that's what we want to do. We want a clear, more frequent monitoring of what is happening around citizenship education in the p.o. And we also want to look very strongly at how teachers deal with it and what kind of support they need. We're gonna work that out, too. That will be a good system monitor, just to put it in jargon, and we will continue to inform you about it when we have a clearer picture. We can use that money much better and do that research much better than we are doing now in that ICCS research, which, in our view, is inadequate in several ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u143	That system monitor the Minister is talking about: can he also attach a rough timetable to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u144	As soon as I inform the Chamber of how we are going to complete it all, I will, of course, also inform you how we are going to do it in time. We're developing it now and it's coming, but we're not actually choosing to put the money into an investigation that's not gonna come back for another six years, in 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u145	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u146	We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u147	I meant, when can we, as a Chamber, see information about that monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u148	It should be possible in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u149	I have also been able to see its shortcomings in reading that research, but its added value is precisely that it is being looked beyond borders. You can see what the differences and developments around you are, and on that basis you can say: boy, how do they do that in other countries; can we learn anything from that? Does the Minister share my fear that the moment you quit this investigation and just release a monitor of Dutch education, you might lose that component?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u150	When we come up with the effects of how we want to do it with the monitor I was just talking about, let's face up to each other what that offers us and look around us at what neighbouring countries are doing. I have already indicated that the research we have participated in until recently has limitations: once every six years, only among 14-year-olds and when it comes to comparable countries, only Flanders and Scandinavian countries. That's just really inadequate. But that we also have to compare internationally speaks for itself, so that too is part of thinking about what wisdom is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u151	I agree with you on that first part. That's what I noticed when I read the investigation. Moreover, it would be easy to have a study that actually measures what people know when they get social studies, for example. But I would like to see in that effect how we are going to collect this knowledge and whether we are going to do so in a structured way, otherwise I would say: do not throw away those old shoes until you have new ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u152	If those old shoes were really useful, I would repeat that to Mr Kwint. I'll come back with an effect on how we want to do that. Then we'll take a look at this, too. You will understand that it is difficult in terms of comparability, if you do not do so together with all countries. But it is indeed good to keep looking around at other countries, because this is an issue that is not just confined to the Netherlands. Mr President, a number of separate questions have been asked. I'm gonna answer that now. Mrs Van den Hul has asked for compliance with the core objectives of sexual education and diversity. This is an explicit part of inspection supervision. The inspection will ensure that the schools implement this. As you yourself have said, there are times when there is talk of'shame' in my words. If the inspection concludes that this is not enough, then of course schools will be the first to be informed. Secondly, they get a clue. I know that this is a difficult legal term, but I will use it for a while, although I do not mean it in a legal sense. They do get some kind of indication that they have to meet the requirements that are set at this point. If a school still fails to implement the requirements, then there are also sanctions. These could even be financial sanctions. Of course, we do not want it to go that far, so here too, of course, we have to help schools. There may be some procedural embarrassment with teachers in the classroom. School leaders also need to be equipped to implement in a good way the goals that we think are important to each other. Mrs Westerveld mentioned examples of municipalities that actively involve young people in politics. I think she mentioned Nijmegen, where young people are actively involved in politics and think about social issues. There are, of course, more examples. Mrs Westerveld mentioned it herself: in the end, this must be done in those places where people are active, in this case municipalities. We cannot force that on behalf of the government, and we do not want that either. But I think it's very good to say out loud that this is important. It is a great deal that good examples are exchanged in the municipality. It's a wonderful way to involve young people. Mrs Westerveld also asked about the student grant. You know it applies in higher education and not in MBO. The MBO does try to get students to actively move around this theme, to be socially active and involved. The citizenship agenda I just mentioned is an important instrument for the coming years. As you know, we agreed in the government agreement that a social service will be organized. Mrs Westerveld also expressed warm words about this in a previous discussion. This is also an opportunity for young people to be actively and socially involved, in which they work for society; citizenship as you would like them to be. There are also very nice examples of this. The cabinet will soon come with a letter in your direction to explain how we are going to take it further. There has also been a large conference with young people. Those are also things that we cannot often draw attention to because of their beautiful added value. Mr Kwint has called for attention to be paid to home education. I think this is a subject that deserves careful and careful attention. It's getting a little carried away with the ICCS investigation. I can report to the Chamber this is well known that home education is also a subject under the government agreement that is on the agenda and that I will inform the Chamber in due course how we deal with it. I would like to say one thing because it affects citizenship: home education is not without obligation, and demands will also be made. One of these demands is that citizenship should be part of it. People who teach at home will have to have the ability to do so, so that they are able to work with it. For the moment, I think it is enough to respond to that in this way in the direction of Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u153	Last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u154	I think it's a little more nuanced. It's not coming out of the sky at all. My whole speech was about the other issues, because the content of citizenship formation lies with the development teams. So about going to school together, about organizing discussion, about being confronted with opposing opinions and learning to form your own opinion. I understand the Minister when he says that we are going to talk about home education, but I wonder when that will be. I would like to hear from him how citizenship in relation to that go to school together, that social aspect of learning to deal with differences, relates to home education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u155	I have just said something about this in the context of the demands we make on home education in relation to this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u156	When do you come...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u157	I don't have a moment in my head right away when that's gonna happen. That will happen in the coming months. First of all, I would like to talk extensively with the home education organisations in my prioritization. They are also involved in this issue. I will continue to inform the Chamber about this. We'll really get back to this, because it's important to do. My goal is that as many children as possible just go to school. There are situations where that goes differently and children come home. Then home education will be discussed, which, as you know, also has room for in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u158	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u159	Then it is important that we have an eye for what is happening there. We will continue to discuss this subject later, so just a moment of patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u160	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u161	Mr Kwint also asked about the legal obligation of municipalities to consult with schools on combating segregation. I checked that for a moment, because I was not in that consultation myself, but it has been promised that there will be a joint letter from OCW and my colleague from SZW on this matter. That letter will be sent to the Chamber in due course. That commitment has been made and we will, of course, implement it. Madam Chairman, I'm gonna take a look at my paper. I think I answered the questions asked. I'm sure you'd like to go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u162	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs Westerveld. She has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u163	The Minister has indeed answered some of my questions, but I had a very specific question about the number of national government grants. There used to be 20 of them. In 2009, Minister Plasterk said: I am making it 40 for youth organisations. My question is: what happened to that? We could not find out what the situation is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u164	Mr President, I do not have the exact number in my head. If I can, I'll come back to that in the second moment, otherwise in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u165	We're going to the second term. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u166	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. Of course, I have great faith in the improvement we are making. I'm filing two motions. The first motion concerns something which I believe is also widely shared in the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that in the Netherlands the equal rights of men and women and ethnic minorities are less supported than in comparable countries;]] [[noting that the knowledge of citizenship education in the Netherlands is very different by type of education;]] [[considers that this is worrying and, where possible, needs to be addressed through good citizenship education, including knowledge of the Constitution and in particular the principle of equality set out in Article 1;]] [[calls on the government to pay particular attention to this in improving civic education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-362]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u167	The second motion concerns the Citizens' Development Team. I've been looking for the names. I do not think that the various societies in which we live are adequate. That's not suspicious of the team members. I'm sure they'll all be capable, but still the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Citizenship Development Team will examine the curriculum of citizenship education;]] [[considers that the Citizenship Development Team should reflect society;]] [[Whereas this is not the case;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that the Citizenship Development Team reflects society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-363]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u168	I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people working in associations, sports clubs and other civil society organisations make a positive contribution to society;]] [[Whereas citizenship is more than a lesson at school;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with youth organisations and ask them what they need to do to get more young people active,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are increasing signs that, due to the pressure of performance in education, pupils and students are seeing fewer opportunities to engage in society;]] [[Whereas a good picture is lacking;]] [[calls on the government to examine the extent to which educational performance pressure is at the expense of social involvement of pupils and students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many young people feel that they are not being heard;]] [[noting that according to the report on Citizenship in secondary education, young people have little influence in schools compared to other countries;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with young people and schools how to strengthen participation, whether formally or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-364]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-365]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-366]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister did not really comment on my speech. I did ask, but okay. I have another motion. I'm sure the Minister's gonna go into it. I'm not gonna miss an opportunity to highlight our mission. Mr Van Raan has a mission on sustainability. I also have a kind of sustainability mission, but when it comes to protecting this country from segregation, fragmentation and polarisation. Here we go. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research into citizenship competences shows that the level of knowledge of Dutch pupils is lower than in comparable countries;]] [[noting that research has attributed this to a lack of direction given to schools in their social tasks;]] [[calls on the government to stop allowing citizenship education to be non-binding and to give teaching courses for curricula focusing on cultural transfer, assimilation and emancipation, based on the shared Dutch identity, traditions and standards, on Dutch history and the Jewish-Christian-humanist values, which determine our Dutch society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-367]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u170	I have one short question for you, Mr President. We've talked about it before. That little shy little flag is still there. You promised me that there would be a beautiful, large flag, which would preferably stand directly to the right of the speaker's seat. How's it going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u171	They're working hard on it. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u172	Working hard on it? On one flag?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u174	Can you promise when that flag will come? Is there a timetable? Or are you knitting it yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u175	Let me put it this way: he's coming for the summer recess of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u176	You may be weaving him at home in the evenings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u177	I wish I could. Thank you, Mr. Beertema. Mr Rog has waived the floor. Then I will go to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You saw it here during the debate: Beertema's citizenship is not Van Raan's. That's fine. That is often the case in education. Just questioning each other about your beliefs, forming your own opinions and learning to deal with differences, regardless of the opinion of your teacher or of your parents, I would just like to make it clear to you that these values can bring citizenship with them. We will have to cherish them in the years to come. I'm not going to say much about the subject matter. That's why you're here. I'm looking at the gallery now. I wish you all the best from here on out. I would like to inform the Minister that he must continue to focus on the room for teachers in class and in their minds, so that they can close those books once in a while if necessary and continue to engage in any discussion with confidence. I had two motions prepared. I am not going to take up the question of the ICCS investigation because I would like to give the Minister a chance to come forward with his own proposal. In that I ask him to take that international component with him. I have the feeling that we will come again to discuss home education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u179	Thank you. Mr Rudmer Heerema gave up the floor. Then I will go to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u180	Thank you, Mr President. I need to get off my chest that I learned something tonight. Let's establish and mention that this is happening on White Thursday, because that's what it is today: a Christian common... One... A day of the Christian community.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u181	Is that a joke?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u182	I hardly get out of my words. How is it possible! I grew up with it anyway. It's very special. What I have learned is that as a Muslim in the Netherlands you can renounce your faith and that a party like DENK is fine with that. I honestly didn't know that. I should also like to look at Mr Kuzu. That party has no objection to that. I didn't know that. I think that's a win. That's a learning moment for me. That might say more about me than about the DENK party. Thank you for this clarification. Finally, Mr President. I would just like to mention it: sustainability. It was picked up by the teachers. Thank you. I would also like to express the support of society for this. I just didn't get there. Time was up. The organisations: Co-operative Learning for Tomorrow, SustainableBy, Rethinking Economics and Time is Now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u183	Thank you. It appears to me that the Minister can respond directly to the motions that have been tabled and can provide an opinion. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u184	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its second-term contribution, particularly for the motions. I'll walk them by now. In the motion in part No. 362 calls on Mr Kuzu to pay particular attention to what is mentioned in the motion for a resolution when improving civic education. I think this motion is really superfluous. I have made it clear in many ways that this issue is high on the agenda and that we are working in different ways to get on with this issue. That, I think, has not been convincing to Mr Kuzu, but I think this motion is really superfluous. Because we are just full of it and we will continue to inform the Chamber about it at the right moments. In the motion in part No. 363 asks Mr Kuzu to make an effort to ensure that the Citizenship Development Team reflects society. I advise against this motion. The teams have been assembled. The teams will not work in isolation, as it is clear that all nine teams will also be open to external insertion in a variety of ways. I want to give them the space to go to work right now. If a team's already started, we're not gonna suddenly change the composition. That would also be very strange and careless. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u185	Well, then, I'll ask the Minister this. Let there be no misunderstanding: I trust the quality and competences of all sixteen people who are in this development team. But I'm looking at the Citizenship Development Team, I just don't see any diversity. This is not the Netherlands in 2018. If the Minister looks at this in retrospect, does he not think that this team should be put together in such a way that it does justice to the diversity of society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u186	This minister has confidence in the team that has now started working. I have just indicated that any team, whether it is this team or one of the eight others, will also be open to input from society. That could be quite a variety of insertions. I have nothing more to add to that. I gave them the confidence. They're going to work. In the end, we will see what results they are going to achieve. And I have faith in that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u187	I would like to make a comment on this, because this is not the question I asked. The answer does not come close to the direction of the question that has been asked. The question I have asked is: does the Minister consider this to be a reflection of society? Could the Minister, looking back at the composition of this team, in retrospect, think "maybe it didn't go well; perhaps that team as a whole should reflect society and radiate more diversity than can be seen on the page that is now holding Mr Kuzu up'? Just looking back. Does he think it should have been otherwise? Yes or no? Does he think this is diverse enough? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u188	We're going to look back at the moment the assignment is completed and the results are there. On that basis, we can judge. If the team is working for three weeks, I'm not going to have such discussions in this Chamber. I find that inappropriate and undesirable. I gave them the confidence. That's what I stand for. I have said this in the direction of the teachers and the team leaders. I stand for my word. That is why I am not going to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u189	Mr. Kuzu, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u190	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. It's not a question of trust. I have indicated that I rely on the quality and competences of these people. But diversity is also a force of society. We could have seen that in the composition of the team. But the way it's written on this piece of paper, it's just: white, white, white and another white. We just shouldn't have that in the future. It's supposed to radiate diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u191	You've made your point. The motion may put you to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u192	And it must be a composition of the Netherlands in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u193	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 364 by Mrs Westerveld, the government calls on youth organisations to talk to them and ask them what they need to do to get even more young people active. This is indeed a very good task in the context of social service. If she wants to see it in that context, I'll give this motion judgment Chamber. In the motion in part No. 365 asks Mrs Westerveld whether the government can investigate the extent to which performance pressures in education are at the expense of social involvement of pupils and students. I propose that this part be included in the monitoring that we will be setting up with each other in the coming period. I have indicated that I will try to outline all the outlines, but it is clear that the full monitor will eventually be added to the bill that will be sent to the Chamber. So if I can see it in that frame, I'll give the motion judgment chamber. Mrs Westerveld asks in the motion for a resolution for item No. 366 to discuss with young people and schools the way in which participation can be formally strengthened or not. As is well known, we are in any case talking to schools about the participation and support they need. We have even talked about this at other times. In this context, these kinds of subjects are also simply taken into account in the administrative consultations we have with education. I had already promised this in the direction of Mrs Westerveld, as far as the budget is concerned. We've been on the road with each other for a couple of months. Right now, I don't need this motion. This is just part of our discussions about participation. Then the motion to part No. 367 by Mr Beertema to end the non-binding nature of citizenship education. I would like to refer to the word 'assimilation' in the operative part of the motion. We focus mainly on inclusiveness. Despite the diversity that exists, we try to be a society together. I think this motion is a bit similar to Mr Kuzu's first motion. The motion is superfluous in that I have indicated that, as far as I am concerned, the legislative proposal is now almost ready, then can go into the consultation and come to the Chamber later. That is also the place where we will have to find that anchoring, that spirit you were talking about. Let that be the time for us to judge whether we think that is sufficiently successful. Then, of course, you have the freedom to give your own reflections on that. I think this motion is superfluous in that sense, but we shall, of course, come back to that. I have also indicated that I am very motivated to work with this. But be patient, because we can work hard, but everything has to be done in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u194	We no longer have the "unneeded" qualification in the assessment framework. You can say "judge Chamber," "dissuade" or "take over."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u195	"Needless" isn't in there anymore? Then I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u196	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-11.u197	I thank the Minister, I thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery, the staff, the officials and the people who have followed this debate in a different way. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I wish everyone nice Easter days.
