ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the tax burden for a earner. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State in trade union K and the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP Group as the first speaker. Speaking time is exactly four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is champion. You'll understand I'm not talking about folk sport number one, at least with the men. If I have been properly briefed, the Dutch achievements in this area are indeed not to write about home. No, the Netherlands is the champion taxing a earner. That's not something I'm making up. That is something that the many letters that have been sent to us and which I also have with me show. Mr. Chairman. When my predecessor Elbert Dijkgraaf made a call in November to a earner to share their story, hundreds of letters came in in no time. That's what I just showed you here. In many cases, it is necessary to be a earner, by illness, care, a disabled partner or a disabled child, longterm unemployment and so on. Or one makes a conscious choice, for example to spend all the time raising small children. Take Arnold and Anita. She's a earner because he's sick. He's been treated, but no diagnosis can be made. They have to do it without benefits. Anita has to work hard to get around, but running extra shifts has hardly any effect. And then another family: he's a lawyer and she likes to work a few days and hardly pays taxes. That's unfair, isn't it? It is clear from the CPB report Eenservers under pressure that a earner in the Netherlands is taxed disproportionately by the State. The title says enough. The conclusion is crystal clear: the pressure on a earner has increased and the pressure on two-earners has decreased, especially with couples with young children. The policy seeks out the limits of inequality and efficiency. It is logical that you, as a earner, receive one salary, but it feels like discrimination and unfairly punished that the tax system also leaves much less of it. It doesn't just feel that way; it does. The SGP sees a link between the decline in volunteering and the promotion of employment participation reported in the Broad Prosperity Monitor. Our question is whether the Secretary of State sees it that way. At the second earner, the adage "working must pay" is very well implemented. Up to €20,000 in income, not a penny of income tax is paid, but a earner can earn €10,000 more and not yet earn €500, and that with an income under mode. Our question is therefore whether the Secretary of State is prepared to take the marginal pressure to a more moderate level so that it does not exceed 50%. How does the Secretary of State assess the policy options mentioned by the CPB? Mr. Chairman. It is my firm belief that there will be a moment when a majority will see that there is great injustice here. This was the case in the First Chamber when the Schalk motion was adopted. It would be very nice if the House of Representatives would also confess colour today. I call for that. It won't be the SGP! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Central Planning Bureau has indeed done research. This shows, in my view, that the policies of recent years have also had the effect that has been aimed at: a more equal distribution of work and care between men and women. The policy was effective in increasing the employment rate of especially mothers with young children. We also see this in an increase in women's economic independence. It increased from 48% in 2005 to 60% in 2014. That is a step forward, but as far as I am concerned it is far from enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr Van Weyenberg spoke exactly 33 seconds, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u6	I will certainly talk about women's economic independence, but I did not say that it increased by 12%. I believe that it has increased by 3% and that the number of women who have been employed by this measure has increased by 12%, but that does not mean anything about economic independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u7	I was talking about the economic independence of women in couples with underage children. Mr. Chairman. The Central Planning Office also indicates that you can run into the limits of efficiency at times. However, I think it is important to note that the average tax burden on household households and families in which both parents work is about the same. You might forget that when you hear some people. It is also good to remember that the figures of the Central Planning Bureau, with all appreciation for the report, are static. They show what is happening in one year, but we know that, particularly by mothers with very young children, a very important decision is being taken at that time on whether to continue working or how much work continues to be done. And it's not only important in that one year, but it often lasts a long time. I think it is important that we keep an eye on that long-term perspective. As far as I am concerned, the policy should focus on this, so that work pays off. Keeping working makes sure that you don't get in the way again because you quit. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, the coalition agreement shows equilibrium, balance, because the coalition agreement is committed to tackling extremes in marginal pressure, for householders, but also for the least-earning partner who takes the step to work or more work. There's another world to win. I like the emphasis on reducing marginal pressure. I am also proud of the compromise that parties have reached with a different approach. We are taking measures for the benefit of family income, but also, for example, measures that improve that step to work or to more hours of work. I think this is a nice political compromise that everyone is trying to achieve. Let me make it clear that my group also considers it important that more work is also paid more for earners and householders. The coalition agreement contains a number of measures which I think are sensible. Mr. Chairman. We in the Netherlands are relatively good at stimulating, also fiscally, that the least-earning partner takes the step to work. What we have succeeded less is to promote some more large jobs and thus economic independence. Less than half of women in the Netherlands earn the minimum wage on their own. Less than half the women! I still think that this is a major challenge for the future. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is also a policy challenge? There are many more challenges with marginal pressure, especially for the least-earning partner. In addition, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to comment on the position of single people. For them too, marginal pressure is sometimes high. In other words, does the Secretary of State agree with my group that if you want to reduce the marginal pressure and make more work pay, we should also look very closely at how we can ensure that more people with small part-time jobs often work more hours in the Netherlands, so that we can really ensure that economic independence is given a further boost? Does he also think that we should look more broadly at all forms of marginal pressure, whether it is for single people, household households or two-earners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tax collection is, of course, primarily to finance our collective provisions. In addition, you can also pursue very different goals through taxation. That is how I am a social democrat, so I think a fair distribution of income is very important. We are not talking about greening today, but that is also an important goal, especially in these times. What do companies pay for it? What do people have to pay? That relationship is important. In this debate, we are looking in particular at earners and households and the question of whether the tax they have to pay is reasonable. Several parties have repeatedly stressed that there are problems with it. Some of these problems are also recognised by the PvdA, but I would like to put something on the other hand, especially the emancipatory effect of the tax system. Are women also economically independent? Is there a breadwinner model for that, or do you think everyone deserves the chance to be independent, to anticipate that? Then there are the bottlenecks that the PvdA Group supports. In the example given by the SGP, among other things, but also by the Christian Union, there are families in which a partner is long-term ill and really cannot work. The pressure on such a family and the family income is then a legitimate point, which you should actually do something about. The question is whether you should do this generally through taxation or with more targeted arrangements, but I really think that is a problem and a problem that has rightly been raised by those parties for several years. A second point that the PvdA Group regards as very legitimate is the marginal pressure: what happens if you have a certain income and what more is going to work? So what do you have left of the euro? I have a great deal of criticism of the government's savings in rent, but there is also, for example, a measure in the rent payment that contributes to this. If you made a euro more, above a fairly low limit, you lost it from one moment to the next. That sucks, even if you're a breadwinner. This rent allowance will be adjusted; it will be phased out gradually. Such measures help to achieve this. But our tax system plays a role in this. The same applies to municipal waivers. Of course, it doesn't matter to the recipient whether he gets a waiver of the sewer charge, the OZB, contributions to sport or the fiscal measures we agree on nationally, but they do of course intervene. There are examples of this. Sometimes you really have almost nothing left of an extra euro. That's a real problem. That is no longer reasonable or just. The PvdA Group therefore sees these two problems as well. Then I come to the next point. Is it reasonable to add income together? That is what some parties advocate, especially on the Christian side. They say: we are simply throwing one tax rate at that. I don't think that's reasonable. Why not? Because then you stop looking at the individual income that people deserve. Mr Dijkgraaf liked to cite the example of the woman who is a dentist and the man who is a gardener. They make so much money together. But if you reward that right, that means that the man who is a gardener will have to pay 52% tax in one go. I don't think that's reasonable. Nor is it economically independent, and I am not in favour of that. So I do not think it is fair to implement that model far. Nor does it contribute to the economic independence of people. That's a big discussion, isn't it? A second big discussion is: where is the problem of marginal pressure, of what you have left of that extra-earned euro, the biggest? At that point you can also make different policy choices than the cabinet does. The top rate of 52% is reduced to below 50%. There is not the biggest problem; the biggest problem lies with the lower and middle incomes. Why was that chosen? Couldn't you do that much more directed towards that group? There are many other measures. I do not need to mention the dividend tax and the Vpb reduction, but of course you can also make other choices in this respect, in which you avoid these groups more. This could be supported by the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u10	When I listen carefully to Mr Nijboer, he says a number of things that are taken from my heart. But let me go according to the example of that gardener and that dentist, or to draw it to my situation: a MP and an orthopedagogic. I'd much rather my neighbor who's a earner gets it better, too, and that my wife and I, as long as we're together, might pay a little more tax. Suppose eventually it is necessary to achieve economic independence, for whatever reason; maybe you don't like each other so much anymore. Then you come into a different situation and another tax regime. You say: let the weak shoulders also come to their senses throughout the Netherlands. Couldn't you say, "Let the gardener and the dentist, or the orthopedagogic eye and the MP have more weight together?" If they break up, yeah, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u11	It just depends on how you imagine it. That is always the case in taxation. If the SGP proposes not to bring the top rate of 52% below 50%, which benefits that dentist, and to give it to middle and lower incomes, it will find the PvdA at its side. If you say: we take it away from the partners working part-time and we give it to that example, then I am not in favour of it, because that undermines economic independence. I don't think it's fair either. So it really matters where you take it away. I think we'll make other choices about that. The SGP also always wants lower top rates, while we are in favour of a higher top rate for people with incomes above one and a half tonnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u12	We're talking about wealthy people now. The answer to the written questions I asked showed that 28% of the 335 000 single-earner households are so wealthy that they can avoid partly or entirely the deletion of the portability of the general tax rebate. What does Mr Nijboer think of that? Does he think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u13	I need to be very precise right now... Can you explain your question a little further? Which group exactly are you referring to? I wasn't talking about wealthy people; I was talking about high incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u14	I am talking about wealthy single-earner households, where the partner does not work and where the deletion of the portability of the general tax rebate can still be avoided because of box 3 power. It is therefore possible to make use of the overall tax rebate without working, just because they are so rich.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u15	That's right. You are saying that they have so much capital that they actually have a tax rebate that they have more deductions. We're against that. We even proposed in the election program to include box 2 and box 3 power. If you take that all together, I think it's going to be 400 million. Of course, that's more just. We think you should hit more wealthy people, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u16	However, under the previous cabinet, a tax measure which is actually aimed at employment participation has been made even more extreme. That actually means that if you have enough power, you can avoid tax. It's hard for the PvdA to digest, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u17	Well, of course it always was. The boxing system is so that if you have power, you can subtract it. With the VVD we have not succeeded in putting that at risk. Mrs Lodders would give you a very different answer than the one I have just given. So we didn't throw the whole system apart, but we didn't take a measure to hit that target group like that. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u18	But I understand that the PvdA is now saying: as it is now, we do not think it is just.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u19	Together with Ed Groot, who was then fiscal spokesperson, we have repeatedly said that if you have income from box 3 and by the way also from box 2 "dga's" you have tax advantages that we are not really waiting for. If the Christian Union manages to put an end to this in the coalition and push it towards lower incomes and middle incomes, I would like to table amendments to life, I would say to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u21	The debate on responsibility was yesterday, but today we also have a kind of debate on responsibility: responsibility for the level of taxation, especially for the single-earners. The discussion on the tax burden among earners is very similar to the whole story and the discussion on the flat tax. Until recently, the Netherlands had a tax system with different rates. Because of the jungle of income-dependent tax rebates and surcharges we had de facto seven discs. Then Rutte III came up with a story about a flat tax, with only two tax discs, according to the cabinet. But what are we really getting? Yes, still a system with a total of seven discs, because that whole jungle has remained intact. But the story sounds pretty good. Besides, the citizens just call it what it is: fake news. The same can be said about the level of taxes. The cabinet now says with a dry eye that the ratio of the tax burden to the tax burden on two-earners has become more positive, but the single-earners themselves, all experts and also the CPB simply show that this is fake news again, because earners continue to pay more and in the future the difference increases. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes things are very complicated and a long, long debate is in place, but today the facts are enough. The fact is, in recent years, a single-income couple has been taxed more heavily than a couple with two incomes coming in. Fact two is that in recent years the CDA and in particular the Christian Union have learned strongly against this fact. For that reason, the Christian Union even voted against the Tax Plan in 2016. Fact three is that this Rutte III policy increases inequality. It rises and grows. Fact four is that Rutte III also includes the Christian Union and the CDA. Four facts, just the way it is. At the beginning of my speech, I mentioned this debate as a debate of accountability on taxation, but it is also a debate on credibility and backbone. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u22	There is another fact missing, namely that the cabinet, in which the CDA and the Christian Union are in, has abolished the so-called rejected countertop subsidy and has therefore made the budget sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u23	Five facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. In the autumn, I said that I sympathise with the concern of the Christian parties about the high tax burden of one earner. I've rarely had as many positive reactions from this angle as I did back then. I understand the surprise, because GroenLinks is a party of emancipation and economic independence. Let me be clear: we still are! But justice is also an important starting point. There are two issues I would like to raise in this debate. First of all, I am very concerned about people with few opportunities in the labour market. Both on the demand side through the burdens of employers and on the supply side, we need to do much more to improve the opportunities of people with few opportunities. Actually, the cabinet is doing the opposite. Look at the adjustments in the employment discount and the income-dependent combination discount, the limitation of portability, the removal of the fixed foot. This is at the expense of people with very small jobs; they will give up their work sooner. It is also at the expense of families with children, sole earners. Here exactly the reverse choice should have been made: the IACK should not be worn out at the bottom, but at the top. People with three modes, such as Mr Stoffer's family, do not need this tax subsidy. Then you create more balance between one and two earners among the people at the top. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Secondly, I am concerned with low and middle incomes. We are getting more and more working poor in the Netherlands, one and two earners. I believe that we should allow people with an income to move forward: the teacher, the police officer, the bus driver, whether they are one or two earners. But that's not gonna happen. Then I would like to tell the CDA and the Christian Union that the choice of a flat tax is particularly advantageous for the highest incomes. Three quarters of the burden relief, once calculated on a beer skin, goes to incomes with more than twice the modality. Can the Secretary of State confirm this rough sum? The CDA flat tax means that we have less budgetary resources to improve the labour market opportunities of people at the bottom; they are deteriorating. And we don't have any money to meet the real middle incomes and lower their burdens. The cabinet reduces the marginal and average tax burden especially for high incomes and not for the silent motor of the Netherlands, not for agents, teachers and workers in care; the people who keep our society running. Finally, the other hobby of the CDA: the surcharges. They make the system incredibly complicated, give strange marginal pressure effects with the discounts and, together with the flat tax, limit the possibilities, even in the future, to meet groups of people who are really under pressure. We need to radically change that system, and I have said this before, but we will have to wait for it for a while. So I say yes to Christian Union, CDA and SGP. I share the concerns about the high pressure on a single earner, certainly the high marginal pressure on some routes, but I focus on low and real middle incomes, on their income and on their chances on the labour market. That's where you'll find me by your side. This does mean that we should not reduce the burden on people on high incomes. We saw in the Monitor Brede Prosperity I'm almost done, chairman of the committee, that the gap between the low-skilled and the highly educated is only getting bigger. May I remind the Christian parties that only 25% of the lower-skilled are two-earned and 70% of the higher-skilled? That should mean that we should be able to find each other in better policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u26	That Mr Snel's choices are different, I understand, but he just said that people with lower incomes are not aware of this cabinet policy. It has been calculated what the policy means for the part-time drop, i.e. the situation in which it no longer pays for the least-earning partner to go to work. It falls from 50% to 29% for partners on the minimum wage who work from three to four days. I think that's a big deal. The re-entry trap, i.e. the situation in which a three-day partner works on the minimum wage, goes from 64% to 54%. I understand Mr Snel's criticism. That doesn't surprise me, because he has different views. But I would appreciate a recognition of the fact that great progress is being made in re-entry and part-time falls.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u27	A few things. First of all, there just happened to be another beautiful piece in the ESB of the Central Planning Bureau today, which shows that all the fiscal proposals of this cabinet do little about the marginal pressure. There are a few small effects. They are sometimes positive, but sometimes also negative. Especially in the very small lanes you see a peak in marginal pressure. Secondly, I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that it would be good if it were possible to make the least-earning partner with few hours more, just from the point of view of economic independence. At the same time, we see that this is becoming increasingly difficult. We are running into the limits of what we can promote fiscally. Perhaps it is also more of a demand problem than on the supply side of the labour market. Let me give you an example. The least-earning partner with a small job in care, an alpha help, has little income. It's getting worse now. The argument of Mr Van Weyenberg and the cabinet is that they are encouraged to work more hours. But what if you can't and if you don't get that chance from your employer? We need to think about the boundaries in hours, not people. In terms of people, I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. At the bottom of the labour market, we can do much more to encourage labour supply to move from non-working to working. But encouraging people to work more hours is becoming more and more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u28	I recommend that Mr Snels take a look at the letter from the Minister for Social Affairs concerning the publication of the coalition agreement. In my opinion, my point is that we are taking significant steps both in the fall in growth and in the fall in re-enterers and in the part-time fall. These are all matters that are very important to make working for the least-earning partner pay more. You can say that you want to go even further, I want to do so too, but I would also like to see recognition of the fact that we are really bringing marginal pressure down seriously. Secondly, I very much agree with Mr Nijboer that it is unfair that you have a very high tax burden if you work from three to four days as a partner. That pressure goes from 50% to 29%. I know that you also think that is a good idea and that you want to go even further on the question side. You also want to encourage employers to give people the chance to grow. I'd like to agree with you on that, too. But pretending to do nothing is not in line with what the facts show.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u29	I think we're doing very little. This is also reflected in the accounts of the Central Planning Bureau, also in today's publication. This means that the Central Planning Office actually finds that there are no structural employment effects. That's not just an indicator based on people, but also on hours. Even though there are minor improvements in marginal pressure, its effect is zero. You know, Mr Van Weyenberg, if we sit together for an afternoon with 5 billion, I think we can achieve both better income effects and better labour market effects. I think it's a shame we can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u31	If a medicine appears to be working much less well than previously expected, will you increase the dose of that old medicine or switch to a new medicine? If you choose that higher dose of the ill-functioning medicine, would you do so if there are very painful side effects, which get worse at a higher dose? The answer is obvious. We're gonna put the old medicine aside, and we're gonna choose the new medicine from now on. But, Mr President, what is my surprise and probably your surprise? In recent years Cabinets have always opted for an even higher dosage of the ill-functioning drug. The previous cabinet, of VVD and PvdA, opted massively for a much higher dosage. And today we are talking about the painful side effects of a tax system that has been knocked out of control by means of an instrumentalist system with, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, totally unfair differences in the tax burden between households with one income and those with two incomes. What's that got to do with the meds? Well, I'm talking about the tax review of 2015. She's already been mentioned. That tax review didn't happen. This would initially create 100,000 jobs, said Secretary of State Wiebes. But that tax review didn't turn out to be a good thing, and that 100,000 jobs didn't. However, 35,000 paper jobs were squeezed out of the new CPB model using tax artwork and flying, with the 5 billion package. This was done mainly by increasing the income-dependent labour cut by 2.8 billion and the IACK by a further 0.3 billion. As a result of these measures, the difference in income tax between one and two earners increased from a factor of 3.5 to a factor of 5. In 2017, this increased to a factor of 5.6. Now it is 6 and under unchanged policies it would have increased to 8 to 9 in the coming years with a household income of €40,000. Those 35,000 paper jobs came from the new CPB model. That was much less than the old model of the CPB. In fact, empirical research had shown that people are far less likely to be stimulated by taxation than we always thought and then adopted in the old model. The only groups that proved to be a little too excited to go to work were young mothers and low-skilled single people or, as I would say, practically skilled single people. The previous cabinet had no regard for balanced purchasing power relations, but went furiously to squeeze the last bitter drops out of an already squeezed sour lemon. With a fully labour force-oriented instrumentalism, the remaining buttons were turned to the maximum and billions were added to the already high employment discount and hundreds of millions at the IACK. The side effect of this working drug in extreme doses is a totally distorted load regimen. Mr. Chairman. If one thing has become clear from the above, it is that during the formation we had to carry an uphill battle against the base path. And yes, with some highly valued coalition partners who see this matter ideologically just as differently. That is why I am truly pleased with all these agreements in the government agreement, which significantly improves the purchasing power of the modal earner in particular after years, even after decades, of standstill: the introduction of the two-disc tariff, the implementation of the two-disc tariff, yes, it is now! On the basis of the amendment that was not adopted in 2016, Schouten, in particular a higher child-related budget, a care allowance for couples and a gradual phasing-out of the rent allowance. The amendment was described by then Secretary of State Wiebes as the most beautiful amendment he should have ever dissuaded. All this resulted in a lower marginal pressure at the statutory minimum wage and modal. Around a nice start, for which I am grateful. It is not ideal yet, but it is by far the best step in years on the road to a fairer tax system. I'm closing up. I look forward to a response from the Secretary of State to his choice of medicine, to the fiscal instrumentalism that has passed over the last few years aimed at creating additional labour supply. I ask him what difference in the tax burden between households with one income and households with two incomes he considers to be justified. Because he wouldn't have answered that written question. How can we continue to reduce the extremes in marginal pressure and what lessons does he draw from the CPB study? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u32	I have been a little confused and I have actually lost my way in Mr Bruins' fruit basket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u33	You didn't expect the lemon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u34	No. Last time I understood that the fruit started to rot here and there, so I thought "he's looking forward to it," but now the squeezed lemon comes around the corner. My question. During the previous cabinet period, the Christian Union was also constantly at the table in the budgetary negotiations. I appreciated that very much; the PvdA appreciated that very much. The Christian Union was also involved in the 5 billion reduction of charges at the time, including in the substantive choices: not too much money towards dividend tax. Then we fucked those melons out of the fruit basket. More money for rent, for the tenants. I'm asking him for judgment. He says: that was actually worthless and now I am grateful, even if it was a uphill battle. How does that relate to each other? Because both fiscal policy agendas have been supported by the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u35	It is precisely why we did not agree to the Tax Plan in 2015. The gap between one- and two-earners would be further increased by the income-dependent labour discount and the IACK. That is why we voted against it. We have been able to take a great deal of substantial measures in the coalition agreement, which could bring to an end the growing gap, which, as I said, would have grown to a factor of between 8 and 9 in this cabinet period. I mentioned these measures in my contribution. Of these, the two-disk rate is the most important, but also, for example, the so beautiful Schouten amendment, which at the time in the previous cabinet was dissuaded by Secretary of State Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u36	I hear Mr Bruins say wonderful things about the concern he has had over the past few years because the gap between one and two earners has become so great and has now been stopped. But does Mr Bruins agree with me that this gap will widen again in the future? Does he agree with me that it will take measures not to allow this gap to continue but to bring it back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u37	In this cabinet period we have brought the gap to a halt; it does not widen this cabinet period. We would have liked to bend him a little bit more and make him smaller, but we've come a long way. In any case, we have been able to prevent the difference in tax burden from rising to a factor of between 8 and 9 in the case of an annual household income of €40,000. But I fully agree with Mr Stoffer that after this cabinet period the difference in the tax burden between one and two earners is likely to increase again. A subsequent government agreement will therefore require further measures to achieve a fairer tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u38	Why wait until after this cabinet period? Do we not think that measures need to be taken now to avoid rethinking in a number of years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u39	Well, I think it's very important that we keep thinking. I also hope to hear from the Secretary of State today what he thinks is justified, how we could continue to reduce the extremes in marginal pressure and what lessons he draws from the Eenservers report under pressure, because there is quite a lot in it. So the thinking should certainly not stop. We have already taken considerable measures for this cabinet period. I think now is the time to think again about what you might want in a subsequent coalition agreement. Perhaps Mr Stoffer is sitting at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u40	Finally, Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u41	I think we have the same wishes. When I hear it like that, I didn't squeeze this out of a lemon but out of a nice sweet mandarin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u42	I think that would be nice to fill the fruit basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u43	I share the concerns of the Christian Union about the high marginal pressure on some income trajectories. That's what my support was about earlier. I also indicated in my speech that there are, in particular, low-skilled and low-income earners. Which group is the most concerned about the Christian Union? To the single-earners and the low-income families, or the high-income two-earners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u44	I heard Mr Snels mention this point in his own contribution. It's not like rich people get richer. With this coalition agreement, we have not simply introduced a flat tax. It is a flat tax along with a lot of other measures, which also came back in the Christian Union election programme. What we do in the coming years is ultimately better for one-earner, but also ensures that modal incomes, so just the families with children, improve on them. We tackle higher incomes by, for example, building the deductions after the first disc and reducing the labour discount steeper. But as a result, the wealthy people and those with a higher salary are not making any progress to the extent suggested by Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u45	Whether you look at the purchasing power picture, at the average tax burden or at the marginal tax burden, the biggest benefits and the budget mix, it is true that both earners and two-earners are mainly high-income, and not at the bottom of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u46	I would like to respond to that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u47	No, Mr. Snels was busy for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u48	But I don't believe what he's saying. So I'd like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u49	You'll have the opportunity in a moment. Mr. Snels, please finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u50	What I also told you in my speech was that this cabinet did work at the bottom of the income-dependent labour cut at the expense of the least-earning partners, people with very small jobs. They withdraw from the labour market. You may wish to do so, but then there is still often a working poor, a earner who earns very little. But why should you and I get that IACK? Why don't you build it? Then you can also get a better distribution between one earner and two earners. This is more equitable and even better for the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u51	The group that has deteriorated most in this period of government is the group that has stood still for all these years, even for decades. That's just the families with kids. People who work around fashion and just above fashion advance this cabinet period 8%. That's a lot, especially after all these years of standstill. The income drop, the part-time fall and the re-entry fall are getting smaller during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u52	I have listened with surprise to Mr Bruins, because in his view everyone is guilty of the gap between the family where a parent works and the family where both parents work. I would like to remind Mr Bruins that the abolition of the transferability of the general tax rebate, which at the time was hardly mentioned by Mrs Halsema and Mr Pechtold, was done under the responsibility of the Christian Union. This was then done in order to promote participation in the labour market and simply close the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u53	At the time, the Christian Union ensured that this would not apply to families with children between the ages of zero and five. It was the cabinet after the cabinet in which the Christian Union sat that flushed it down the sink. So I'm throwing this far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you. Mrs Leijten has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u55	Families whose mother or father only works are taxed differently from families whose parents work. This has come from conscious policy. In 2008, the majority of the Chamber and the then government felt that women had to work and, with the derogatory term "court grant," they were actually attacking all families who made the choice that there was someone at home. We were against that at the time. We were attacked that we would not be in favour of women's participation in the labour market. Ten years later, there is a report from the Central Planning Bureau which is quite critical. This means that this policy has sought out the limits of inequality and efficiency. In other words, the government has not achieved its objective. I have a question about women's economic independence. The way I read it, there are more women at work. That number has increased by 12%. The CBS figures then show that female economic independence has increased by only 3%, from 47.3% to 50.7%. I ask the Secretary of State if this has led to anything. Mr. Chairman. Women still earn less than men for the same job. Women in the Netherlands generally work little, the least hours of the European Union. That's because they sometimes choose it, but it's also often because they can't work anymore. Part time is the norm in many sectors where women often work noticeably: care, childcare, education. They have a flex contract more often than men, precarious work, there is an increase in pregnancy discrimination, and do not extend temporary contracts. But you can also see that an important point to stop or stop working is that childcare is just expensive, that that small salary does not outweigh the costs you have to make. I think that the employment rate of everyone in this country needs to be improved. People with practical training, higher education need it less, women, men, but do you have to do it through fiscal policy? Shouldn't we just improve women's economic independence by, as in Iceland, ensuring that you can't reward men and women differently in a company? That we're getting more flex work? That if you want to work more, like in health care, you can? This would also largely solve the problem of working in health care. As far as we're concerned, you have to create some conditions. For example, make childcare affordable for everyone. Start with two days free a week. We can afford that. We're making child support dependent on income. The high incomes of Members of Parliament, as Mr Snels said, do not need this. That's what you can cut it off for, and by using it, you can make child care free. As a result, you not only promote employment participation but also social participation at all. When it comes to families where one or both parents work, we see a division between those two groups, but we also see a major problem within the group of household winners. Mr Snels already pointed that out. We see that 75% of household workers are in the lowest paid jobs. And if you look at families that together earn the income, which already have a tax advantage, that is 70 to 80%. The CPB researcher also warns that the earning capacity in the labour market of the lowest-earning group is actually deteriorating. This policy has mainly encouraged two-earning people, but in the end it has not encouraged those jobs that you also need to get around, sometimes alone, sometimes with children alone. In other words, this has been a measure for the auditor's elite, hasn't it? Mr. Chairman. Tax can be used to stimulate behavior. The abolition of the countertop subsidy has been seen as a common fine for families in which only one parent works, for whatever reason. We were and are still opposed to this measure. We would like that to be put to an end. That costs 1.4 billion in 2036. And how do I know that grade?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know a lot of people who are happy to pay taxes. At the same time, we attach great importance to our security, to good care, to education and to infrastructure; provisions that must be paid from tax revenue. The government agreement proposes a number of measures to reduce the burden on people. After years of economic crisis, a period in which we have asked a lot of people, we will actually implement the first measures under the forthcoming Tax Plan. During this cabinet period the burden will be reduced by more than EUR 5 billion. The proposals for tax cuts should ensure that all income groups, but especially workers, improve on them. People need to feel it in the wallet and work must be rewarding. This debate is specifically about the earners and, in addition to the tax reduction envisaged by this cabinet, a number of measures have been announced which benefit this group. That's good. At the same time, questions have been asked in the past in different debates, both here in this Chamber and in the Upper Chamber, about the differences between one earner and two earners. This has also been mentioned by previous speakers. The cabinet has promised to monitor the development of these measures. Can the Secretary of State indicate when we can see that first report? Is that in the 2019 Tax Plan, in the Social Affairs and Employment budget, as discussed earlier? Mr. Chairman. In recent years, a number of measures have been abolished which encouraged one of the partners, often women, to remain at home. If one of the partners chooses to stay at home, that is of course their right, but it does not need to be promoted fiscally. Certainly not in a labour market where we can use extra people. The VVD also supports that line in the future. The VVD therefore welcomes the agreements in the coalition agreement and looks forward to the elaboration of the measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr. Chairman. The core of taxation is load capacity. We want to pay for education, roads, health care and an army, and we collect taxes for that. Not because we like it, but because we think it's necessary. In the Netherlands, in recent years, we have asked only one question about tax measures: does this measure cost jobs? No, we're not talking about real jobs, we're talking about jobs in CPB models. Jobs that will be there in 30 years' time because there is more people's offer, not because there are vacancies today. Such models are useful, because silly measures such as weird early retirement measures have caused a lot of damage in the past. But behind the models the normative questions in the Netherlands disappeared. That has had major consequences. In the distinction between earners, one-and-a-half and two-earners, the principle of carrying capacity has been thrown out of the window. In all models, you need to stimulate the least-earning partner. It is a question of women who have to work more. The result at the moment: a non-working partner with a child, who will earn €20,000, pays zero tax in the Netherlands. So she's got $20,000 net left. I'm assuming a slightly superior income from the main earner. A breadwinner in a rental house that increases his income from the minimum wage to the modal....................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. I've been here ten years, and I've been promoted. If you'd like, I can explain to you exactly what incentives this is. But no one understands these incentives anymore and there is no one in the Netherlands who understands what you have left if you earn €100 extra. That's serious, because we can't work like this. This is out of control. The first family has a reasonable income and based on that capacity is a rate of 0%... well, not too high, let's say. The second family is just above the poverty line, but barely pays for the breadwinner. It pays on average 90% of every euro to the State. And why? The models say that your least-earning partner should be stimulating to work. Well, stimuli were plenty. But if you can't work, for example because a partner is sick and has no income or because a 55-plus partner can't find a job, then the problem is big. A megastimulant, but no opportunities and therefore often quiet poverty. Besides, there is an incentive that works for families. That's divorce. On paper or in person. That's the only way to make sure your income increases significantly. But that is not the intention at all. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the difference between taxes between one earner and two earners, this coalition agreement is a turning point. About seven years ago, I personally asked for attention to be paid to the disproportionately high tax burden of one earner. At that time, inequality has arisen. Reduction of tax rebates and all kinds of other measures have increased the difference in tax burden. With this coalition agreement, we have for the first time taken measures to reduce the difference between taxes between one and two earners, so that the total difference does not increase further. Mr. Chairman. This is the right direction, but not enough for the long term. This problem also calls for attention from the following Cabinets. That is why we call for the next steps. One. More focus on economic choices of taxation Why do you tax a particular group? The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity and on the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the European Union. We shouldn't throw it away, by the way. Two. A simpler tax system. We are truly leading income-dependent schemes. That is why I ask the government whether it is prepared to write a discussion paper together with the CPB, the WRR and perhaps some former politicians and professors and perhaps to set up a symposium to discuss the models and economic choices, so that we are talking here about the choices we make and not flatter the models. And to see how real simplification is possible. I am very interested in the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u60	It's a very strange thing. I thought I heard Mr Omtzigt say that policy is now reducing the gap. That is not true, of course, because it remains just as big and in the future it will increase again. So there's a lot going on, but the difference doesn't get any smaller. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u61	No. We are taking a number of measures that make it smaller, and because some of the measures in the past are still working and making the difference, the difference de facto remains about the same over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u62	Okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the Secretary of State if he needs a brief suspension. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u64	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sorry for the slight delay, but we wanted all the answers neatly in a row. It was a good debate, which, of course, we are not having for the first time. It is very important and good that attention is paid to the position in taxation, for example the single earner. Once again, it is right that we talk about this frequently. Also in the First Chamber attention has been paid to this. All these years political attention has been called in a way for increasing differences and marginal pressure. There were some questions about that today too. First of all, let me explain in general terms where we stand, why we as a government do what we do and where we come from. I will not take extensive history lessons, but it is important to explain that it is not entirely coincidental where we are, but the outcome of policy commitment. At the same time, I will address a number of general questions raised by Members of Parliament. Then I will try to answer some more specific questions as best I can. Indeed, they are disadvantaged by the tax burden of paying thousands of euros more than two-earner households with comparable household income. Also last autumn during the Financial Reviews and the treatment of the 2018 Tax Plan, there was a great deal of attention for this group. For example, the SGP came up with an extensive set of letters, which has been distributed to us again today, which make it clear that it is not necessarily a voluntary choice for every single earner, but that there may also be people who end up in that situation without their choice. That is an impressive collection of letters, which I went through in the autumn. It's a good thing it's back here today. For example, there was also a Bruins/Omtzigt motion which also called for structural monitoring of the difference in the tax burden between one- and two-earners. It has also been adopted with broad support from the Chamber. Despite the fact that we may all be looking for a different political balance or weighting, I think it is good to keep the monitoring in order over the years and over time, so that the right policy choices can be made. The CPB has also recently carried out research into the development of the difference in tax burden between one and two earners. That has been discussed a few times today. They conclude that in a given household income there is indeed a large difference between the tax burden of one earner and two earners. In fact, the CPB's report and the research results are a direct and good reason to have this debate again today. It is therefore clear that this group has the attention of politics, not only in the Chamber but also with us in the Ministry. Earners rightly stress that it is not just about now, but that it is also important to reflect on their situation in the future. Mr. Chairman. As mentioned by a number of speakers, it is generally true in the case of taxation that there is always a balance between different objectives. The tax treatment of a earner's household is similar. It is therefore always, however we come out in the balance, a hot iron. I can admit that this issue was again a complex one for this cabinet, because the tax burden on a single earner is not on its own. This brings together all kinds of essential aspects of our tax system. So there is also a link with a lot of other important objectives and principles of our tax system. So it's not like the outcome is just what it means for one- or two-earners, or what it means for marginal pressure. We also have other tax targets, such as the collection of money, the fair distribution of money, etc., etc. All these elements remain legitimate as an objective and we all need to reconcile them. In any case, this cabinet wants to encourage participation in the labour market, promote economic independence, raise money as efficiently and fairly as possible, achieve a balanced distribution of income, promote sustainability, to bring forward only four or five objectives of taxation of this cabinet. Sometimes, that's right, these objectives twist. Then the political view determines what balance is ultimately found in this. This cabinet, as has already been mentioned today, has more than the past cabinet's eye for the tax treatment of a earner. The group received special attention during the cabinet formation, and this is actually reflected in the purchasing power figures. For example, according to the estimates, the earner with a moderate income is the most advanced in this cabinet period for all model households. If you compare the purchasing power tags, the single earner is the most advanced from minimum to one-and-a-half times. On balance, overall, this is roughly equally divided between two-earners and one-earners. In short, the cabinet has indeed paid explicit attention to development, but has finally opted for a balance sheet that also takes account of other objectives. I would like to say that the position on this issue is rather nuanced and there can always be a policy wish; we understand that very well. In order to do a little extra justice to the complexity of the issue, we need to go back, not in history, because then it seems as if I am going to give a lecture, and that is not my intention. But I'd like to explain how we got where we are. Several speakers brought forward a number of cabinets from the past and said what they had done and what they had not done. They were all looking for a logical balance between, on the one hand, the objective of, for example, participation in employment, economic independence and the ability to grow in the labour market and, on the other hand, the principle of acceptance, as Mr Omtzigt rightly pointed out. Because that too is a part of what we need to look at. Meanwhile, we are where we are, and the difference in tax burden is there. That is absolutely a fact; it was also rightly noted. But it's no coincidence we got out of there. It is a result of conscious political choices. Soon the list in a row. One: the progressive system. The tax burden at household level is, of course, higher for a earner's household in the case of an equal household income than for a two-earner's household. That is not a kind of political wish, but that is a result of the fact that we have a progressive tax system. An income earned by two persons is thus taxed at a lower marginal rate than if the same income is earned by one person. In addition, we have tax discounts. The tax rebates apply, of course, to two-earner households. If you have two incomes, they count harder than when you're a earner. That is not a coincidence, because you would like to involve that potential second earner in the labour market and give him a chance to become active on it. To that end, we have rightly considered and introduced these tax rebates. The third factor is the individualisation of the tax system. This has also been discussed at various times. I was just told, and I didn't know, that until 1972 all the income components of a married woman were still attributed to her husband. I see a former Secretary of State nodding, who may remember. Fortunately, we have taken a number of steps since then and have come to a more individual interpretation of the tax system. I think that's good. Today, therefore, the income of both partners is in principle taxed individually. That's what the cabinet's behind. This is not only good for the economy, because it has a positive effect on employment, but it is more important that it promotes the economic independence and independence of both partners. It can stimulate the distribution of paid and unpaid work within a household. That's important. A consequence of this individual system is that the comparison of tax burden between households should look at the household where individuals have the same income. If we compare an equal household income, for example, this means that for an income earned by a household in which both partners work, it is necessary to work for eight or ten days, while a earner for that same income only has to work for four or five days. These are really different types of households, with different kinds of options, of course, when it comes to childcare, volunteering and all the other things that we also consider socially important. What does the Cabinet do? During the negotiations on the coalition agreement, it was discussed many times and for a long time. I wasn't there, but I've been over that several times now. This cabinet has deliberately wanted to make the political choice to cope with this trend of the growing difference between one and two earners. It has therefore been a political, conscious and justified choice to stimulate the purchasing power of the single-earner households, particularly those at the bottom, from minimum to one and a half and two times the modality, but on two occasions it is about the same and ensure that there are no greater differences. It is actually, and I repeat this once again, for the first time in years that this trend has turned. I think we should be very happy about that. A number of measures behind this are, for example, the flatter rate or flatter rate and the two-sided system. They make the difference between one and two earners a little more in balance. The single-earners also benefit from raising the phasing-out limit in the child-related budget for couples and increasing the care allowance for couples. A third measure is to reduce the transferability of the income-dependent combination discount and labour discount. This also fits in well with taxation at the level of the individual. In short: a result of various measures in the coalition agreement. In this cabinet period, an earner has an average of 1.2% per year. If you looked at that mode, it would be 2% a year. So that's not nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u66	That was an introduction of almost ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u67	I have already been able to answer a number of questions from Mr Bruins and Mr Stoffer. I promise my introduction will be no longer than the answers that follow. By the way, it was also asked when to report. I will also include this in my general introduction. The Minister of SZW will report in this year's budget, the 2019 budget, according to the pattern of the adopted motion on the difference in tax burden between one and two earners. The motion by Mr Bruin and Mr Omtzigt, which was adopted by the Chamber and in which the Cabinet is asked to report the differences on an annual basis, will therefore be taken into account. In short, this cabinet has and continues to pay attention to the development of purchasing power through the tax burden of the single earner. Finally, a number of questions from Mr Stoffer and Mr Bruins on the CPB research into a earner. How do I feel about that? Can I respond to the recommendations or policy options mentioned in them? I can, because it has been the direct cause for the debate. Let me first say that we have taken note of the report with great interest. I have also said in the mutual consultation that I am always willing to see what the world looks like and talk when we have new information. Then came the report from the Central Planning Bureau. We said at that time: let us look carefully at whether it is surprising in some sense and perhaps new policy insights. The Central Planning Office shows that, despite the positive purchasing power prospects for the single earner I mentioned, the difference in tax burden between the two groups is not closed, but is not increased in this cabinet period either. Was I surprised by that outcome? No, actually, I don't. I have just tried to describe in detail that this is a result of policy choices. Moreover, the fact that in the future there will be an increase in the tax burden between one and two-earners is not strange if you bear in mind that, for example, the reduction of the portability of the general tax rebate does not apply to people born before 1963. Since these people are leaving the group and a new group will be coming back for it, it is logical that the differences between one and two earners are widening because they do not have that transferability. The analysis by the Central Planning Office is not only about the tax burden for a earner, but also about the other objectives of fiscal policy, which I mentioned: economic independence, employment rates and so on. I come to the policy options outlined by the Central Planning Bureau. That's four. One is lowering the childcare allowance. The second is to reduce the combination discount for couples. The third is increasing the child-related budget. The fourth is the phasing out of the portability of the general tax rebate. This will be partly or completely undone. These measures are not new either. It is not the case that a new policy palette has been presented. We are well aware of these measures. They are buttons that were also turned during the coalition chord, but which are very consciously tuned to the volume on which they stand now. In all honesty, these policy options did not really give new insights into the discussion we had. They were known. They endorse the image we have. But these policy options, of course, have different consequences, when you would study them and consider them in a positive way. I would just like to say that, on balance, I do not find these four policy options very attractive. All of these measures are bad for public finances and are not unimportant to a State Secretary for Finance. They all lead to lower employment rates, all leading to less economic growth and less economic independence, especially of women. That is why I do not find all four policy options outlined attractive. I come to a number of more specific questions. I do it a little in the order in which the questions came in, so I shall start with Mr Stoffer's questions. Mr Stoffer asked me whether it is fair for a household in which there is an involuntary single earner, for example because of illness, to experience a higher pressure than a two-earner house in which one of the partners has a job for the fun. I understand very well that this is a sensitive point, and I say this in the direction of Mr Stoffer. You read those letters, you'll find out. It's just that out of the more than 300,000 single-earner households, a relatively small part really is an earner out of unfree will. We are thinking, for example, of partners who are chronically ill and are therefore not able to carry out paid work, but who, for example, are unable to provide childcare services in certain cases. The previous cabinet has already looked at this in connection with a motion by Mr Schalk in the First Chamber. A letter on this particular case was also sent to the Chamber at the time. In practice, the chronically ill group appears to be extremely difficult to define, which was the policy remit for this particular group. The question was: can you do something for this particular group? However, a tax regime that is generic and should apply to everyone does not generally appear to be very suitable to serve a specific group. Mr Omtzigt has already pointed that out. At the time, it was also chosen to meet this group financially by reducing a maximum own contribution in the Wmo. Whatever indicates that there is a real eye, in the then cabinet but also in this cabinet, for this group of people. But again, if we are to find a solution for these people, then I think that taxation is probably not the most logical direction of solution and that we need to see if we can solve it in another way. Here too, one of the policy priorities that I have in general is that we really need to be careful not to make taxation too complex. That point has already been raised in this debate. Every time we think "there is potential to come up with a solution," we still need to adapt tax legislation further and make it even more complex. That is something I really want to avoid, and I would like to say again in the direction of Mr Stoffer in this debate. Mr Stoffer also asked whether there was a link between the reduction in volunteering and the promotion of participation in the labour market. He pointed out in that context the Monitor Brede Prosperity and asked if I see that connection. Asphyxiated, if you take the time as a variable, it is true that someone who does paid work cannot volunteer and vice versa. But we also see that there is no straightforward negative link between paid employment and volunteering. In fact, you can see that in certain groups, the people who work alongside their paid job are still volunteering. That's a really significant group. So perhaps I do recognize that image and see in a way that it is technically true, but I do not think that we should be most concerned about it. Mr Stoffer also asked if I am prepared to take the marginal pressure to a more moderate level so that it does not exceed 50%. I think the answer to that can be very short: no, I don't think I'm willing to do that, because that says a lot. We could really only achieve a marginal pressure below 50% if we could not do a whole bunch of specific tax reductions and surcharges on specific households, which we are specifically focusing on, when we would like to encourage their participation in the labour market. That would be the only reason to do that. We see the point of marginal pressure. We also see, like the whole Chamber, that there are times when it is far too high. During this period of government, we are taking a number of measures, which have already been discussed in this debate, to remove these peaks. But some kind of policy promise from me to bring the marginal pressure below 50% would really go too far. Once again, I think that the problem of marginal pressure is really less pressing than before because of the less steep reduction of the rent payment and the longer running of the construction project and the reduction in working hours. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether it was also a policy challenge to increase the number of hours worked by women. A very brief answer: yes. I acknowledge that it is not the case that it always leads to a bigger job if you help people get a small job. It is true that in the long term economic independence tends to go from temporary work to more work to permanent work. When it comes to reducing poverty, having a job by far is the best solution. So yes, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg, of course it is also an important policy challenge to get as many women working as possible, but also to make more work, because it can reduce the risk of poverty, especially in the long term. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer didn't have many questions, but one question I still distilled from it was why the coalition agreement chose to reduce the marginal pressure on higher incomes and not on lower and middle incomes. It came in two, but I think this was the distilled question. Mr Bruins also asked how we intend to proceed with the reduction of extremes in marginal pressure. I would like to say to both of them: marginal pressure is extremely important. We understand that. The marginal pressure is actually the best button to touch if you want to make work more rewarding. The lower the marginal pressure, whether at the bottom, in the middle or at the top, the more rewarding it is to start working. This promotes participation in the labour market. We think that's important. In the coalition agreement, it was finally decided to do something about this throughout the whole process. That may be a different choice than Mr Nijboer would have made. I understand that, but we've actually looked all over the palette at the marginal pressure, both at the bottom and at the top. I know that it should not be a purchasing power debate; we must be very careful about that. At the same time, I would like to say that the measures we have taken in the coalition agreement are particularly positive for middle income. They are also very specific about this, and certainly not about higher incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u68	I can say a lot about lagging wages, purchasing power and later the blow from the VAT increase, just for the lower and middle incomes. But we'll cross the swords about that. I have asked the Secretary of State what he thinks about 75% of the single earners being in the lowest income group. At the bottom of the labour market, therefore, there is a lack of earning capacity. That's what the investigation says. This has long-term consequences for families and children in poverty. The idea that work should pay and the tax treatment that is now in place therefore puts a group seriously behind schedule. How does the Secretary of State look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u69	I do not think that this coalition agreement really puts a large group at a disadvantage. If you look at purchasing power developments across the board, you can see that everyone is improving on balance. I have all kinds of records here, but again, let's not have the endless discussion about the wml and that 175%. If you make the choice that work gets more rewarding, it is true that those who work more benefit from it. But that in itself is a legitimate choice, I think. There are also people who do not have the freedom to do so. I think that's what Mrs Leijten is asking for. To this end, we have also taken very specific other measures aimed at the development of purchasing power on the bottom, for example. We're talking today about the one-earners and the two-earners. You can see very specifically that the cumulative purchasing power picture looks most beautiful for example minimum to modal and modal up to one and a half times modal. I agree with Mrs Leijten that this does not necessarily suggest that all these people can then take the step up. That's true. But we also know from experience that the step from zero to a lot of work offers is also not easy to make. You have to start somewhere to make it attractive. That's what this cabinet does, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u70	If you're the breadwinner of a family and you're not in a job where you make a lot of money, it's hard. Then you get all kinds of tax, technical explanations about discounts and surcharges. But if your wages are left behind, your rent and the care premium are rising and VAT is falling over again, then we can have a very long debate here, but then those people are lagging behind. It is precisely the CPB researcher who says: we must do something about the earning capacity there. We are having a fiscal debate about stimulating work. It's all on paper, but reality isn't taken into account. How are we going to make sure that we are really tackling the problem of families in poverty, especially these household-run families, with children in poverty? I asked the Secretary of State what he wanted to do about it, but I'm getting technical answers, while I'm looking a lot more for solving the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u71	I am well aware that sometimes I give technical answers. When I read out an answer, I realize that it is technically complicated, for example the answer on the income-dependent combination discount and the tax discount. You can say it doesn't matter what you call it, but the paycheck is ultimately about people's real incomes. I'm trying to stay a little away from the idea: it's very technical, so that's why it doesn't work in reality. At the moment when a tax rebate is applied, including at the bottom, the tax rebate may have a technical name, but it is relevant to the purchasing power development and prosperity of low-income people. Probably we are all confused about the technique. That doesn't make a discussion any more fun. But what is behind it is indeed aimed at those who, for example, have no earning capacity. If Mrs Leijten asks me whether I think we should do our best to promote earning capacity, then I can answer that I agree 100%. Economic growth has to do not only with what you deserve, but also with what you can potentially get out of yourself. The more we can encourage it, whether we use technical terms or not, the more pleased I will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u72	I welcome this answer, but I do think it is in contrast to the four directions in the CPB note, on which the Secretary of State says he does not see anything in it. It's all a lot of technique. We are still getting a lot of detailed tax proposals. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if, when drawing up these proposals, he would specifically address the concerns of 75% of householders in the lower income groups, whose CPB says there is a high risk of long-term poverty and children in poverty. Is the Secretary of State prepared to pay some extra attention to that? Costwinners and one earners, there is also the bank manager under whose wife can easily stay home. He has less of a problem than the truck driver or the bus driver who has to take care of the family on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u73	I think it is very good that we continue to pay attention to this. It's also about getting the maximum out of what's inside. Taxation can play a role in this. I think that is a good discussion, which we should simply continue to have. The four policy options of the CPB all lead to lower employment rates. I'm a little surprised. If you look at that same agenda, you just want people to have the chance to keep the marginal pressure to work, or to work more, or to make the partner work more, low. The CPB says that there are opportunities to reduce that difference, but this is done by reducing the attractiveness of working for the least-earning partner. That is not the choice we want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u74	I do not expect to be able to change the fiscal agenda, but I am asking a substantive question. It is often said by top-income people that they work for the state for the first half of the year and that they do not start to soak for themselves until July. Or, seen in a week, they don't start working for themselves until Wednesday afternoon. Does the Secretary of State agree with the PvdA that in many groups the problem is much greater, whereas in the case of lower incomes the marginal pressure is sometimes 80% or 90%? So if you use that as the most important argument, you should look at it. The other thing is that I am now looking at the top incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u75	In a previous debate, I believe during an AO, I said that marginal pressure is not the end result of a formula. Everything we do must lead to lower marginal pressure. We are very consciously taking income support measures for specific groups, for example groups which themselves are poorly able to control their income. We specifically give them a tax discount or a concession. We do say that it is no longer necessary to do so above a certain income. At that time there is a great marginal pressure. This is inherent in the choice to help specific groups. Mr Nijboer says that it does not have to be at the top. That's true. The discussion on employment rates is, of course, more sensitive for those who have more to offer than at the top. What I'm saying is that I don't disagree, but the question is, how do we do that? This is by looking at the marginal pressure, but also at employment rates, economic independence, more job provision, higher economic growth and, in the end, also the collection of tax cents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u76	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels van GroenLinks asked a similar question as we had just had a discussion about: the income-dependent combination discount, IACK. I'm sorry we don't know how to call it easier than it is. Why wasn't it just worn out at the bottom? Or the other way around: why is it only worn out at the bottom? We have had this discussion before, because it can be done with the whole package of measures. In a moment there is another question about the flat tax and its distribution. We do a lot of things. We have 64 measures dealing with income policy and support for citizens. In the end, I think we should look at the overall picture. The overall picture shows that we reduce tax rates, increase labour discounts, also at the bottom, and increase the general tax rebate. That too is positive for the bottom. You can take one measure out of it in a very targeted way, but we have chosen to show a positive view across the board and to focus on purchasing power, especially on lower and middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u78	That is the answer we constantly get from the cabinet: it is a balanced package, whether it is about companies or people. But if you look very specifically at what societal challenges there are, I didn't mention that figure of 25% low-educated and one-earners for nothing. There is a double problem: both employment rates and incomes. In my opinion, there is a much greater social problem than in people at the top, so I think that you should also take that into account in your policy commitment. I blame the Christian parties, but that is also a question for the cabinet: to look at the tax system with these social glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u79	I do not entirely agree with that. Of course, a coalition agreement and the policy we stand for is a result of weighing up all kinds of elements. I also understand that Mr Snels thinks that the weighting should have been different. I really think it's some kind of bangwap, to name it. On the one hand, there is the principle of carrying capacity, and on the other hand, we have things like economic independence, participation in employment and the discussion we are having here. You have to put that wedge somewhere and find a balance there. I think we have quite rightly put it in a good place, as I was just trying to point out, by taking very specific account of the underlying trend for the first time in years, which is not positive for the single-earners versus two-earners. I have just mentioned a reason why it is also technically so. We're just trying to freeze them. In fact, for part of it, for a specific group, the purchasing power picture is best for that single earner. That was quite difficult, but it is a combination of measures that are the result. If you take one off and ask me to do it differently, I think we can keep arguing for quite some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u80	One more time, Mr. Chairman. Oddly enough, I broadly agreed with the Secretary of State's introduction to what our tax system looks like, how we have different goals, how we try to balance them. My problem is that, in my view, this cabinet policy has not been entirely successful. Why do I specifically call that ICK? We have a tax system that aims at progressiveness and capacity, but we also have instruments that must achieve goals. The IACK is an instrument for promoting employment participation. And that's exactly what the CPB says it doesn't do, in hours, in people with higher incomes. That's why I'm taking out this little instrument. This is a question of the effectiveness and effectiveness of this specific instrument. I think there's a different way to bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u81	Well, then I'm gonna take a technical look at the IACK. What has happened is that we have gradually made growth. In the past, you already received a full income-dependent combination discount on the first euro. We have shaped them differently: they are moving in more gradually and are being reduced. That's a choice. Of course, you can say that at the bottom, this is the most conducive to the employment rate. That would perhaps be less encouraging at the top; I would like to give that to Mr Snels. It could be just like that. But it is a result of the total. Again, all these measures do not focus solely on marginal pressures or only on participation in the labour market. It is a continuous mix of income policy, the fair distribution of taxes between the different income groups. Everyone can have their own ideas about that, but that's an outcome and it's where it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u83	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think I'm done. Mr Snels' second question was the same. He asked if I can confirm that the flat tax for more than three quarters goes to households over two modes. Well, I can't confirm that. So I can't quite follow the beer skin. But also for this you will not look at the individual beer skins in the end, but at the total calculation. That's a little bigger beer skin. For example, you can see that of the total reduction in tax which is slightly different from what Mr Snels suggests, about two thirds of the income groups reach twice the rate. The suggestion was that it's going to sit somewhere at the top. No. If you look at the total relief that this cabinet is using, it turns out that about two thirds end up with income groups up to and including two modes. Mr. Chairman. There are a few final questions. I think that Mrs Lodder's question on reporting has already been answered. There is another question from Mr Omtzigt. He gave some sort of insight. We have a complex system. Sometimes something works, but people don't even know whether it works for them or not: what happens to my family income when one or the other starts earning more? Mr Omtzigt asks whether it is not important simply to review what is happening once again, both administratively and politically. He also made a comment: on the one hand you have the planning agency models, but you also have people who feel a kind of different economic reality than according to the model. Well, then I'm just gonna defend the planning agency models. They have been independently and scientifically tested. There's a lot of stuff in there. But what Mr Omtzigt says, I also understand: a model has an outcome with even a purchasing power picture, but an individual family or citizen will not always feel at home with a model result. "Can't you even organise a symposium with a group about how you make and prepare policies?', That's what he's asking. Actually, I think this is kind of a fun idea. I do make it clear that I do not do so because I do not think those models are important, but because besides those models a different reality can be felt. It is not wrong at all to agree on this with a group of people who have practical experience and have an interesting thought about it, which can be fiscalists, but also former politicians or scientists who have done something about it in the past; that does not make me so interested in holding a symposium. Then we can put that together and pool the expertise. I think that's a good idea. I do not think it is the intention to set up some sort of new Van Dijkhuizen committee, at least I did not have that idea. But Mr Omtzig's idea of philosophizing about this with each other for a day in a sort of symposium seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u84	I see this as a commitment that something is being worked out for this. I would like to be more specific about my intention in this regard. These models are extremely useful; otherwise I would throw away my own training, all these seven years, and I wouldn't even dare. It's my job to think of these models as a tool. Now they're a kind of goal as the outcome of that model but so many jobs or so many things is... without the underlying thoughts coming into the picture. There's no quick fix for that. My intention is for the discussion to start on how to deal with it better. I'd like to see the Secretary of State pick that up. Thank you for that commitment. I'm gonna find out how that shape is gonna get.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u85	I can even imagine, when I am organizing that, calling Mr Omtzigt again to ask if he has any good ideas or pieces or knows good people for this, so that it becomes some sort of common ground, but I will take the initiative to move forward with this. I think that was all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. If I observe the movements in the Chamber in this way, I think there is a need, albeit not for everyone. You don't have to. But I see Mr Stoffer walking with a pile of paper. I'll just describe the trial in the hall, for the viewers at home. The Secretary of State is on my left. How many motions do you have, Mr. Stoffer? You have 1 minute and 20 seconds, you know that? I call Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr President, I have never exceeded my speaking time, but that will happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u88	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u89	I'll read very soon. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the difference in the tax burden between one and two earners has been increasing in recent years;]] [[noting that the current government is taking short-term steps to prevent a further increase in the tax burden between one and two earners;]] [[Whereas, in the long term, bottlenecks in marginal pressure, for example for earners, remain a pressing issue;]] [[calls on the government to outline longer-term options to remove the pain points in marginal pressure, for example for earners, and to report to the Chamber on this within one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current government is taking short-term steps to prevent a further increase in the tax burden between one and two earners;]] [[Whereas the difference in the tax burden between one and two earners has been increasing in recent years;]] [[Whereas the Central Planning Bureau concludes that policies seek the limits of inequality and efficiency;]] [[calls on the Government to identify serious options to reduce the differences between one and two-earners and, if possible, to inform the Chamber further on Princess Day 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas work should be paid;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to allow the marginal tax burden including surcharges up to a maximum of 50%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Stoffer, Mr Bruins and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-86]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-87]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u90	I'll leave it at that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u91	Thank you. Nice, in time anyway. Then Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. As far as I and my group are concerned, with this coalition agreement, we are taking good steps to reduce marginal pressure, on some routes for single-earners, i.e. household-winners, but certainly also for families of which both partners work. There, too, we are taking great steps when it comes to the re-entry trap and the part-time fall. We don't forget single people either. This is an increasingly large group that we need to make work pay more. That is my group's position. We really need to guarantee the objective of economic independence. I welcome the recognition of the Secretary of State that there is still a long way to go here, for example when it comes to making more pay for more hours of work, also by the least-earning partner. In this way, we can make everyone feel the recovery and that more and more people's working will actually pay off. There are still many challenges, but I am proud of the coalition agreement, in which, with parties who have ideologically different starting points, we move forward for both purposes: not one at the expense of the other, but two goals at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I'll take a look around. Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks. I can imagine what Mr Snels' second term is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. The strange thing is that I share a lot of his principles, but not his policies and his policies. I'd like to draw your attention to something. I went through the SGP's letters once, and I notice that they are all low-income people. It's about people who work in health care, they're drivers, they're people who work in construction. I believe that we share the concerns there, both about participation in the labour market and certainly about the income position of single-earners. I find it so crazy that there is always a contradiction between SGP, CDA and Christian Union programmes, because they are very much about reducing the burden on high incomes, where the two-earers are mainly, and not for low-income people. I would like to draw attention to this with my Christian friends, and I would ask the Secretary of State to really include in the report the distinction between the highly educated and the low-skilled, i.e. those who make a lot of and little money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u95	I will see if Mr Bruins needs a second term. That's the case. I call Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. I thought it was a little technocratic. I asked what the Secretary of State thought was fair, but I haven't heard much about it. Maybe we should talk about that again, maybe a third time. My name is under Mr Stoffer's motion, which calls for longer-term options to remove the pain points in marginal pressure, for example for a earner, and to report on them within a year. I am very glad that we can work together on this and that we can get more options and more clarity there. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for confirming that the Ministry of Social Affairs is also going to report on this subject in a standardised manner, on the difference in the tax burden between one- and two-earners, and that we are also getting an analysis from the Minister. That is another good time to speak on this pressing subject. That concludes my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Bruins. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, and thank you for this discussion. It's good that it's being fed again. You have seen that our signature is under Mr Stoffer's motion to map out the options. I very much welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to discuss whether we see models as a goal or a means. I see that we often use models as targets here and, as a result, make up 22,000 income buttons with rising and descending tax rebates. They are incredibly unfeasible for the Tax Administration and no one really understands what their marginal rate is anymore. And it's nice to know what's left of you if you're gonna make $100 more. In itself, I think that a citizen should be able to estimate that. I can't do that right now. I would like to reassure GroenLinks, because it seems to be a bit difficult. With current government policies, marginal pressure is decreasing most for low middle incomes. It is precisely in high incomes that the CPB stresses again today that marginal pressure is not reducing so much. It is that piece between about €20,000 and €40,000 in which the pressure is lowered. It depends on which group you're in, one group a little earlier, the other group a little later. That is where the pressure should be lowered, because that is where it is highest at the moment. Is that enough? I would appreciate it if the marginal pressure would be below 50% for everyone, but I do not think we are going to achieve that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u99	This is the second term, so you may respond briefly, Mr Snels, because this is an invitation to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u100	Maybe we should ask the Secretary of State to look at those new CPB sums. Indeed, in the graph of the Central Planning Bureau you see a small drop in marginal pressure at €20,000, €30,000, €40,000. But then, from €95.000, it steadily drops for very high incomes. So there is a difference of interpretation between Mr Omtzigt and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u101	The highest decrease, president, takes place with the group with an income between €20,000 and €40,000. I have to say that there are a lot more people in this group than in the other section that Mr Snels mentions. But if GroenLinks insists: for the people with a partner they build the IACK. For them, the marginal pressure rate exceeds €40,000 and exceeds 70%. Be honest about that! It's too high for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr Stoffer, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u103	I have a comment to make. I want to make it when Mr Omtzigt is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u104	He's ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u105	I would suggest that my third motion be withdrawn. I assume you don't think that's serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u106	Since the motion for a resolution (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, two motions which, if you read correctly, in a way try to achieve the same goal. One motion is a little further than the other. I have just studied them both and I think that the first motion does not only do justice to what this cabinet has tried to do in the short term, but also, in the end, describes that there can always be problems in the long term with marginal pressure and that this includes, for example, the single-earners. That's why I think I can work with that. I really think that's true. So briefly, about the motion in part No. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. I understand the motion. That is a little less the case with the motion in part No. 87. It also states that steps are being taken, but at the same time there is a certain idea behind it. Once again, we have discussed that idea today, and I understand it, but when I am asked to identify serious options for Prinsjesdag, there is a bit of a suggestion that they should also be converted into measures. That's, I think, just a little bit the difference between both motions. I feel comfortable with the motion in part No. 86, because I think it's wise to keep thinking about what it means forever. I feel less comfortable with the motion in part No. 87, because there is a suggestion that this balance, the wedge I was just talking about, should be put differently from where we put it. So I don't think that's a good idea. For that reason, I would like to make the motion in part No. 87 would like to dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-7.u109	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State, the MPs and the people in the public gallery.
