ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	We shall now begin with the amendment of the Pension Act, the second term of office. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, thank you for that. Nearly 100,000 people signed the Pension Manifesto of Omroep Max, where the first demand was: no rewards above the Balkenende norm. It is bizarre that in our beautiful pension system such exorbitant salaries are paid up to €600,000 a year. It is therefore right that there is a great deal of indignation about this. Therefore, the SP proposes to change the law and force pension funds and performers to apply the Balkenende norm. Because if they cannot set boundaries, then politics must do so. The Minister responded to our proposal by reading a few lines of text from his officials, namely that the pension sector does not fall within the scope of the WNT, that law which imposes the Balkenende norm, and that they have their own agreements. I know that, and that's exactly why I'm proposing to change the law. Of course, it would be strange if it were already covered by the WNT and I would propose to include the pension sector. So I expect the Minister to give at least a serious response to the SP proposal. I also expect the Minister to respond to the fact that these Giga salaries are paid in the pension sector. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he thinks it is right that this should be done in the pension sector. Does he think there should be limits to that? Does he think that if they themselves do not set these limits, politics has a responsibility? In short, a little more than as a kind of reader reading a few short sentences that are very obvious and have nothing to do with the SP's proposal. Then there are the investor bonuses. The Minister gave a brief answer to this too. In 2017, the total amount involved was almost €2 billion, which was paid out to investors, €2 billion, which is money from pensioners and employees. On the question of whether the Minister wants to talk to the pension sector in order to limit this, we received no response. That is why the next motion, also on behalf of Mr Gijs van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that high investor bonuses increase implementation costs;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the pension sector in order to reduce the distribution of investor bonuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34934-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	Finally, in the first term, much has been said about the pension assets that are likely to cross the border as a result of this dictation from Brussels, which is now being worked out in a legislative proposal. Letter of amendment of this Minister already raises a number of obstacles. As far as we are concerned, these obstacles cannot be strict enough. Mr Omtzigt has tabled a number of interesting amendments on this subject, which were subsequently dissuaded by the Minister. I really hope that Mr Omtzigt will keep his back straight and that we in the Chamber can vote on these proposals because, as far as the SP Group is concerned, this is an important addition to the proposals that have already been made to prevent our pension money from crossing the border. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. We are dealing here with a directive, actually an adaptation of it, which really makes it possible for our supervisor to act better in cross-border value transfer, which is also a strengthening. That is what my group supports, as we have always supported this directive. He is the successor to a directive, and the successor is better than the predecessor. With the letter of amendment, the Minister has also built in a number of additional safeguards, with the aim of ensuring that you do not get some sort of shopping between supervisors. I think that is wise, because I am very much in favour of things being able to cross the border, but not for wrong reasons. I have one more question about that. There is a rather solid debate among lawyers on whether what is happening there is in conformity with European rules. The Minister says that he is now making a distinction between cross-border and domestic transfers of value, and that, as far as he is concerned, the directive also offers a hook to do so. We have been able to read, for example in the PensionPro magazine, that Professor Hans van Meerten really does not share that interpretation. He is, after all, an authoritative authority in this area, and he is actually saying that this is a distinction that is not legal. Now I know that lawyers can differ at least as deeply as economists, as I do, but I would ask the Minister to reflect on this again. Is this really sufficiently investigated? And what consequences would it have if the provision proved to be contrary to Union law? Do we have to change the rules? Could measures be taken against the State, which I think we all do not want? I would like to take a closer look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his written answer and also for answering the urgent questions. This showed that 3 billion in pension assets have already been transferred to Belgium and Luxembourg in recent years. As far as we can see, these were transfers that we can best understand. These were multinational companies which were in the process of consolidating their pension assets. If you're a multinational and have a pension fund in several places, I can imagine you'd want to put that somewhere. So we don't think that's the most undesirable thing in itself. The undesirable thing would be for us if just those companies that are Dutch or almost exclusively Dutch were to leave for another country for fiscal or supervisory reasons. That would be Belgium or Luxembourg in this case; these are the two countries they left for. This is made easier and more difficult in a number of ways in this directive. We have difficulty with the ways in which it is made easier. This effort is mainly due to something the Minister also mentioned in his reply, namely that a country other than the one in fact is about taxing pension assets. Of course, pension assets are not taxed in principle, but when stress breaks out, pension assets are no longer within the Dutch jurisdiction. It may be invested anywhere and it should be invested anywhere; even if it is in the Netherlands or Belgium, they have American or English shares. That's not all that exciting. But it is important that a Dutch pension fund is located in the Netherlands. It's a social security institution. That is why we were not in favour of this directive. You saw that two years ago. That is why we have tabled these two amendments. I'm gonna go in...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr De Jong has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	Oh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, what does Mr. Omtzigt do now? He even now chooses to talk nonsense in the plenary. The PVV tabled a motion against this directive a few months ago, last year. The CDA voted against it. In the European Parliament, the CDA voted in favour of this directive, which has caused the Netherlands to suffer. Now the same CDA man thinks he can get away with twisting and actually joking, by saying he's against it. You beat the crap out of it. When are you finally gonna admit that, Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	The CDA Group voted against it in the House of Representatives. I have said here that the CDA Group in the European Parliament has made a different choice. So whoever says I voted in favour now is twisting the truth around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	This is very painful. This is really painful. Mr. Omtzigt can take the media. He can play the media and pretend to be critical of EU pension proposals. He can do that. The fact that they're taking over without a hitch can happen. But he says here in the plenary that he was against it, while the PVV tabled a motion last year to stop the implementation of the IORP directive, and Mr Omtzig himself voted against it. He has therefore ensured that we are talking at all about this directive. It's a hell of a scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u12	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Omtzigt is just standing here lying hard and hard. When does Mr Omtzigt stop cheating on the electorate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u14	Madam President, through you I say: when does the PVV stop telling falsehoods? The first falsehood is that he says that I voted in favour of this directive. I voted against this directive two years ago. In fact, I took the initiative to organise a debate on this. Number two: the PVV has tabled a motion not to submit any implementing legislation here, and in my first term I explained for five minutes that, unfortunately, a directive has direct effect. Mr De Jong, who should be aware of European law, should know that. Even if the Netherlands chose not to do this implementing law, it would still be enforceable through the European Court and would be Dutch law. Unfortunately, the PVV sells tubers for lemons here. That does not apply to the first point, because this directive should not have been adopted. But now that there is this directive, there is no way to say: we are not dealing with the law. I hope that Mr De Jong recognises that he understands what direct effect means, namely that this directive is being implemented in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u15	Before I give you the floor, Mr. De Jong, this is your third interruption. I will allow it, but I would also remind you that this is a second deadline and that we have to take into account plenary planning. So very briefly, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr President, this is a very important point. Mr Omtzigt may, with his arrogance, think that after a very decent, normal question, he can put me away for a moment, but for the facts and for the Acts, let me just say what happened. A few years ago, Mr Omtzigt, who I found on my side, said that we should not do this IORP directive. It then came to the European Parliament, which is an important distinction. The European Parliament subsequently voted in favour of this directive and the CDA voted in favour. Then I said here in the House of Representatives: hey, hey, hey, we shouldn't do that. I then tabled a motion to stop that implementation. Mr Omtzigt then voted against. Mr Omtzigt should not think that he can get away with it. You voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u17	Your point is clear, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u18	As a result, we are talking here at all about this implementation. That is Mr Omtzigt's fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u19	I said short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u20	It's your own fault. You shouldn't pretend you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u21	I said short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u22	I do not think Mr De Jong understands that European directives have direct effect. This means that if this law were not here, the directive would be enforceable without additional safeguards. I did not think that these additional guarantees were enough. I refer to that part of Mr Van Kent's reflection. But there are these additional guarantees here. If you would choose not to do implementing legislation, then Dutch pension assets can be completely removed from one day to the next, because then DNB cannot transfer. Unfortunately, that is the doctrine of direct action. That is also the often underestimated power of European legislation in this house. European legislation is above Dutch legislation, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u23	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u24	I can assure you that the fact that Mr De Jong does not recognise this after we have said it four times. Mr. Chairman. The letter of amendment therefore lays down conditions for the collective exercise of the transfer of value. A two-thirds majority of both participants and former participants must agree. We regret that there is no minimum limit to this, but that is a firm lock on the door. Also a lock on the door is that there is an emergency procedure to give additional instruments to De Nederlandsche Bank when things get out of hand. We find that valuable. We would like the Minister to tell us what instruments these are. On another point, I thought the Minister was less strong. That was his answer on the Uniform Pension Review. The Uniform Pension Statement will soon mean that if a pension were transferred to another country, you would receive a value statement with a totally different coverage rate with the same assets. The thing is called UPO; it stands for Uniform Pension Statement. Imagine being with two pension funds: one whose pension assets are in Belgium and one whose pension assets are in the Netherlands. Then these uniform pension statements will become incomparable if we do not accept the amendment tabled by me and Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. We think it is important that you can compare these two pension statements, that they are comparable and that there is on those pension statements whether the pension is in Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg or Malta. We therefore consider this to be an extremely important amendment for comparability. In any case, you must make visible when supervisory arbitrage takes place. We therefore do not understand the Minister's answer. Even if your wife has a pension overview in the Netherlands and you yourself in Belgium, it would be nice if those overviews are comparable. If the Minister does not want to do so and remains against our amendment, then we would suggest that he amend the law, namely to take the word "uniform" out of Uniform Pension Statement and call it a pension statement. But I'd like to leave the word "uniform" there. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has our amendment to item No. 13 dissuade. That amendment provides that the security measure is to be provided for in Article 132 of the Pension Act. There has been some criticism. Mr Van Weyenberg also referred to this criticism. If you have a pension in the Netherlands, a pension fund must always pay it. It is therefore not an additional requirement. If you go from one pension fund to another in the Netherlands, you must continue to comply with Article 132. It's in the Pension Act. We ensure that this also applies when an international transfer of value is made. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he could make a commitment to send an evaluation of this law to the Chamber in two years' time. I see him watching. Two years? If it's two and a half, I get it. Say a term! That evaluation should include how many applications there have been, whether money has been transferred and how the process has gone once that has happened. In particular, it should include the views of both DNB and the Minister on desirable or undesirable matters. Are they gonna show up? The evaluation should also address key functions, as there is still a piece of key functions in it. I still find it very strange that you give someone a certain responsibility, but that there is no effective punishment if he fails to fulfil that responsibility, except that he will be declared unfit next time. A key function is really an important function. If hundreds of millions or billions of people are being cheated, such a key official must say they are. If he doesn't, he should be punished as far as I'm concerned. We obviously do not choose that now, but it would be nice if the government indicated whether those key officials were working or not. Finally, I have one motion. The Chamber, having heard the debate, considers that pension funds are allowed to outsource activities... I brought the wrong motion. Mr President, I am going to look and perhaps I will be able to table the motion in five minutes. The motion I started with, I'm going to move to Monday, because we have an additional legislative consultation on Monday. I actually had a motion on the Uniform Pension Review. I have asked the government to investigate which cases of the Uniform Pension Statement are legally enforceable and which are not. Everyone gets a uniform pension statement. If there's big mistakes in that, you don't get it. Can the Uniform Pension Review always state what happens in case you move to another job? This is mainly about the survivor's pension. Because if you take another job, you may lose your survivor's pension on a risk basis. I would like to have a back report from the government on this in three months' time. Maybe the Minister can promise that, because then I won't have to do it by motion. If that's the way to do it, I'd really like that. Otherwise, on Monday I will be presenting the motion, because then we will have another legislative consultation; against my will, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u25	But I believe that the thrust of your motion has ended up with the Minister. So you'll have a reaction to that later. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr President, I shall be brief. When something comes from Brussels in the field of pensions, the VVD always looks at it as critically as possible. In the context of this legislative proposal, we have had a wide exchange of views on the need not to create new powers for the European Commission or EIOPA. Nor is there any further harmonisation of capital requirements. The Minister has expressly confirmed all this. The essence is that you want to know that your pension scheme is sure, but suddenly you get a note stating: your pension scheme has moved to Belgium, Malta or Italy. You want to find something of that yourself. That was precisely the reason, I understand, for submitting at the last minute a letter of amendment which lays down a two-thirds approval requirement. I think that's a logical step. Now I have to say that we have received letters from at least two professors since our first term and, of course, from interested parties on compatibility with European law. It is only on that point that I would very much like the Minister to give us further information. Then I would like to endorse Mr Omtzigt's suggestion that we evaluate after two and a half years. Then we can see if this worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you. I call Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr President, thank you very much. As a PVV, we believe that the EU should not interfere with our Dutch pension system. There have also been other groups that have suggested such a thing, but in the end, when they came to an end, they always voted in favour. In particular, the CDA, with Omtzigt, is of course the most painful example. Mr. Chairman. We're not going to accept it. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that pension policy is a national issue where EU interference is undesirable and therefore not to implement European social and pension policy directives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Jong and Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34934-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you. I look forward to next week's votes to see the true face of the so-called EU-critical parties here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr. Chairman. I assume that colleagues have studied in detail the letter from Professor Lutjens, who was sent to the Committee on Social Affairs yesterday. I will now go into that letter in detail. The two proposals to limit the possibilities of cross-border implementation have already been dealt with briefly in the first period. I am glad that the debate was postponed last week, because the two proposals came in very late and are fundamental. One proposal is a proposal to maintain the Dutch collateral measure under the Pension Act in the case of cross-border transfers of value. The other proposal is that a two-thirds majority should approve the collective transfer of value. The following question has arisen. Are these restrictions on the cross-border transfer of value allowed under the IORP II Directive and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, the secure free provision of services? The Minister also addressed this in his letter of 8 October. The starting point for cross-border implementation is, on the one hand, that the social and labour law of the pension scheme of the country of origin remains applicable and, on the other hand, that the IORP is governed by the rules of the country of establishment as regards organisational law and financial supervision law. In the case of implementation by a foreign IORP there is a supervisory right other than the supervisory law applicable under the Pension Act for Dutch pension funds and Dutch IORPs. For cross-border transfers, Article 12 of the IORP Directive sets out a number of protection requirements, including the requirement for approval by the majority of members and beneficiaries. Mr. Chairman. My conclusion in relation to these two proposals is that the requirements of the Dutch prudential framework regarding the collateral measure after a cross-border transfer of value are contrary to the rule that national supervisory law applies. These requirements must therefore be considered to be contrary to the Directive. The role of the home Member State supervisor lies in ensuring that the pension agreement to which the Dutch social and labour law applies is sufficiently secure. However, this is in principle carried out in accordance with the standards of local supervisory law applicable to the nature of the Dutch pension agreement. Secondly, the approval of cross-border transfers. The Directive lays down a specific requirement for cross-border transfers. To that end, it is in accordance with the Directive. However, the second note of amendment requires a two-thirds majority. Although the Directive provides that the majority is to be defined in accordance with national law, the question is whether a two-thirds majority is not such a far-reaching additional threshold that there is too much spread of the concept of "majority." The requirement of a qualified majority implies an additional threshold for cross-border foreign service providers. The question is whether this would not impose an unjustified additional barrier to the free movement of services, contrary to European law. In addition, it is doubtful whether the unequal conditions for domestic and cross-border transfers are compatible with the free provision of services. I have the following questions for the Minister. First of all, on the security measure of 97.5%. Can you confirm that according to the rules of the IORP II Directive, the financial supervisory law of the country of establishment applies to an IORP? If no, on what grounds can it be stipulated in Dutch law that an IORP established abroad must comply with the prudential rules laid down in Dutch law? Is the answer yes, can you confirm that the requirement that the Dutch collateral measure should be applied by a foreign IRP to pension claims following a cross-border transfer from the Netherlands is contrary to the Directive? According to the IORP Directive and the Pension Act, a foreign IORP implementing a pension agreement to which the Pension Act applies must apply the Dutch social and labour law to that pension scheme. Do you consider that the rules of the financial review framework do not belong to the Dutch social and labour law as referred to here and, if not, why not? I wonder whether the Chamber should not ask the Council of State for information on the Omtzitzit/Bruins amendment before it can be voted on. I'm guessing otherwise the Senate's gonna ask for it. I'm looking for support for this in the Chamber. Otherwise, as far as I am concerned, a motion is obvious. In the case of cross-border transfers, the Directive provides in Article 12 for the approval of the majority of members and beneficiaries. The second letter of amendment lays down the requirement of a two-thirds majority. On what basis do you consider that this qualified majority is permitted? According to this bill, the approval requirement applies only to cross-border transfers, not purely domestic transfers. The approval requirement is set out in Article 90a of the Pension Act, as proposed. According to Article 2 (11) of the Pensions Act, that article belongs to Dutch social and labour law. Can you explain how an article, a rule may belong to Dutch social and labour law but does not apply to domestic transfers? The approval requirement makes it more difficult for foreign pension administrators to offer services on the Dutch pension market while this requirement does not apply to domestic transfers. Is there not a ban on the provision of services between foreign IORPs and Dutch IORPs, thereby restricting the freedom to provide services in breach of European law? If not, why is this not contrary to the freedom to provide services, although obviously different rules apply to foreign and domestic situations? In this context, can you also comment on the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 30 January 2018 in Case C-360-15, in which it was considered that a distinction should not be made between cross-border and domestic situations in that case? Is the distinction thus made between an IORP established abroad and a Dutch IORP, not a prohibited distinction according to establishment, contrary to the freedom of establishment provided for in European law? Mr. Chairman. Following my speech and the letters from Professor Rutjes, Professor Van Meerten's comments and Aon's letters on possible conflict with EU law, is the Minister prepared to seek advice on that letter of amendment to the Council of State? Because that hasn't been presented. In the first period, I discussed in detail the 1% interest rate for pensioners in the Netherlands and the 3.5% return applied in Belgium, which could lead to relocation to Belgium or elsewhere. Unfortunately, I could call that an interest rate flight. For the record: 50PLUS becomes very sad from every Dutch pension fund that would flee abroad or consider that. But we must tackle one of the main causes: the absurdly low and manipulated calculation rate. 'Cause that's obviously a reason. The day after the first term, we received letters from the Minister and the President of De Nederlandsche Bank about the interest rate on softer pension claims. That was in response to a question of 50PLUS in the AO Pension in May. The minister is now hiding behind De Nederlandsche Bank. Can the Minister also give his own views on the letter from the President of De Nederlandsche Bank? With a stamp forwarding the letter from De Nederlandsche Bank to the Chamber, I do not think that his political responsibility as Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is fulfilled, especially now that we are dealing with two letters that bomb the negotiations on a pension agreement. We can't run anymore and a vision isn't too much to ask for. Mr. Chairman. If the Chamber will not support a request for information to the Council of State, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that on 26 September the Government submitted a second letter of amendment which may be contrary to EU law;]] [[Whereas this second letter of amendment has not been submitted for an opinion to (the Advisory Section of) the Council of State;]] [[calls on the Government to submit the second letter of amendment (Room 34934, No 11) to the Advisory Section of the Council of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34934-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the annual pension statement (UPO) contains all relevant information and that participants should be able to rely on that information;]] [[noting that errors in the Uniform Pension Statement have little or no effect;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the UPO always includes the level and conditions of the survivor's pension;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the UPO always contains the information on what happens to the pension when the participant changes jobs;]] [[Finally, calls on the Government to make concrete proposals to allow participants to derive enforceable rights from the UPO and to inform the Court within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34934-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u33	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also to the Members of Parliament for the questions asked in the second term. For the record, I have a few points I'd like to walk you through. Firstly, the cross-border transfer of value, then the Omtzitzt/Bruins amendment at the request of Mr Van Rooijen, then the UPO, the Uniform Pension Statement, then the rewards for Mr Van Kent and finally the evaluation and the motions. Those are the cubes I'd like to walk by briefly. I start with the cross-border transfer of value. Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Van Rooijen raised specific questions. In particular, it is a question of whether you can distinguish between domestic value transfer and cross-border value transfer. Article 12 and Article 13 of the IORP II Directive itself distinguish between domestic and cross-border transfers of value. I have also included this in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. Professor Van Meerten's article dates back to April 2017, when there was also a discussion on this issue. That is why we have explicitly submitted this point to the Council of State, and thus included in the explanatory memorandum for the test at the Council of State. Again, the distinction between domestic transfer of value and cross-border transfer of value and the fact that there must be a majority of either participants or the accountability body is contained in the Directive itself, in Articles 12 and 13. That was reviewed by the Council of State. No comments have been made. As far as I am concerned, that point has also been explicitly reviewed by the Council of State. What we did to the letter of amendment is that we made explicit what the majority should be. The proposal for a directive and the implementing law state that there must be a majority or a majority of the various sections, or through the accountable body. We have multiplied that in the letter of amendment, qualified as a two-thirds majority. But the fundamental point of distinction between cross-border and domestic transfers of value lies in the directive itself. This has been reviewed by the Council of State and no comments have been made. That is why I come to the conclusion in the letter I sent you last week that this is not contrary to European law. I think Mr Van Weyenberg said ten economists, eleven opinions. There will certainly be a legal debate on this too, but this has been thoroughly reviewed in this process. Even though, before the implementation law became available, there were signals on this point, we took this explicitly. Mr Omtzigt also asked a question on this point about the discussion we had in the first term: does the IORP II now add guarantees? In my opinion, that is the case. There were no guarantees in IORP I. These safeguards are explicitly included in the IORP II Directive. I therefore believe that there is more protection and that it is more transparent than before. We disagree on that. I shall now turn to the Omtzigt/Bruins amendment. I think it is clear that De Nederlandsche Bank should also be able to test these cases. The question about the emergency braking procedure, which is now included in the letter of amendment, depends on the signals that are being sent. Mr Omtzigt himself rightly pointed out that what has happened in the last period of cross-border value transfer is actually very logical. You may not mention the names of the companies that have done so, but of course those names have appeared in the press. It is simply about multinationals that operate in many countries in Europe or in the world and want to center their pension fund in one country. There is a lot to say that it is good for the participant that it comes in one hand. Nevertheless, I also see the risk of supervisory arbitrage. I have therefore also submitted the letter of amendment: in order to improve the safeguards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u35	I'm asking the Minister if he's using this... Yeah? Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u36	Do I get any answers to the nine questions I've asked? That is one question; the second is whether the two-thirds majority rather than the simple majority is not such a far-reaching additional threshold that it is too broad an extension of the concept of'majority' and whether it also creates an additional threshold for cross-border transfers. You say the Council of State and I have looked into it and it's okay. I have great doubts about this, along with Professor Lutjens and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mr Van Rooijen's final question is: is it a threshold? Yes, it is an additional guarantee which we have deliberately included in the letter of amendment, and I would also like to say to Mr Van Rooijen at the request of the Chamber in the written report. Mr Van Rooijen, like Mr Omtzigt and more of your Members of Parliament, has also raised many critical questions about the cross-border transfer of value. Yeah, that's right. The point of principle, which I have just tried to argue, is whether you can distinguish between cross-border transfer of value and domestic transfer of value. That is in the directive itself. Mr Van Rooijen himself mentioned Article 12 and Article 13 of the Directive. That distinction has been made. It also states that a majority of participants must give their approval. So the first point is, one of Mr Van Rooijen's nine questions: the distinction is made; yes, that is in the directive. Yes, we made that explicit in the explanatory statement. We have had this explicitly tested by the Council of State and no comments have been made. That is the point of principle which I believe you should make of distinction. The second point is that, of course, the directive also states that a majority is possible. There is no definition of what that majority should be, or that 50% is plus one. We have now filled him in with a two-thirds majority, but that is still within the principle of a majority. Therefore, I see no reason why we should deviate from the explanatory statement, from the review by the Council of State, from the directive itself, and therefore I do not see that it is contrary to EU law. So I do not think that Mr Van Rooijen's last question, which I have to put again to the Council of State, is necessary because we explicitly included this point in the first round at the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u38	I understand the Minister's response. However, I would like to have an explicit answer to the nine questions, which I will return to in a moment, but my only concern is that you will be presenting a letter of amendment which has not been reviewed by the Council of State. For you have the authority to do so, that is your judgment. I am very concerned about the fact that this letter of amendment may later prove to be contrary to European law, and then we have a huge problem. Then that letter of amendment, and therefore the law, is contrary to that. You should not want to take that risk, and you can at least reduce it by asking the Council of State for an explicit opinion on it. That is very important for the Chamber. Finally. I'd like an answer to those nine questions. If you do not give me that, I may have to ask for a written reply and then see if a third deadline comes. I'm not standing here 20 minutes or 10 minutes for joker talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u39	I don't think that's the impression the Minister has either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u40	No. In my view, I have also tried to point out to Mr Van Rooij's various questions what my considerations are and what the consideration of all these steps is. I also did so extensively in the letter I sent to your Chamber last week following the first deadline, including the questions raised by Mr Van Rooijen following the note on the report. He made an explicit reference to this point. I have also argued why the distinction remains in our view, even more so, in the directive itself, and also meets the fears of Mr Van Rooijen himself. Since that principle, which makes a distinction between cross-border and domestic, is explicitly addressed in the directive, in the explanatory memorandum and has been examined by the Council of State, which no comments have been made, I therefore maintain my view that this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr. Van Rooijen, I'm going to step in, because I want to remind you all that this is a second term. I know that, after the first period, new documents have been published about which you have rightly asked questions. That's your right. But I suggest that the Minister first responds to your second request, namely: what about my nine questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u42	(NL) Mr President, some of Mr Van Rooijen's questions are about to go further into the set when it comes to calculating interest and that kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u43	Then may I introduce you to hear that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u44	Yes, you can, but on the first principle...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u45	Yes, but you just exchanged that and you disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u46	No, Mr. Chairman, but I'm allowed to make a second interruption on that, right? The colleague just had three, and you'll stop with me after one interruption. I don't accept that. I want to know about the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u47	And I'd appreciate it if you'd talk a little more friendly. There's no need to be so offensive. I'm very generous here. A very short, third interruption on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u48	I would like to know from the Minister whether he thinks that replacing a majority by a qualified majority is contrary to European law. He says "that's a new point, the Council of State has never looked at it. I want to be absolutely sure that this is not contrary to European law. And we're not wearing anything: we think it's okay."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u49	Once again, I am trying to explain why I believe that this can be done within this directive and within the definition. A definition of a majority has been chosen in the Directive. It wasn't made explicit. It has not been said: that must be 51%, or that must be 60/40. There is a majority in the directive, and because we have really implemented the directive one-on-one in Dutch legislation it has been translated into the original legislative proposal. Then there were a lot of questions and there were often concerns of your Chamber about these cross-border value transfers. Everyone says that when it comes to multinationals or companies that want to streamline their pension provision, we all understand. But when it comes to using a different prudential framework, we have some hesitation. As a result, I sent a letter of amendment, in which I filled in the definition of majority by two thirds. But my position on the principle that the majority was already in the legislative proposal, was in the directive, and has been reviewed by the Council of State is: that has already been done. But that is without prejudice to Mr Van Rooijen's point that this is a guarantee. That is what Mr Van Rooijen himself asked for, as I recall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u50	Not specifically to fill in the majority differently from what has happened in the directive. A majority is also 51%, yes, you can also do 99%, on its Korean. I want to be absolutely sure that this does not turn out to be a contradiction at a later date. You could also have taken 90%; that is clearly allowed, and that is almost a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u51	I find this reasoning complicated. We are implementing the directive from Europe itself. The directive itself distinguishes between cross-border transfer of value and domestic transfer of value; see Articles 12 and 13 of the Directive. We have implemented this one-on-one. This came up with questions in the first round, I'll just say the consultation round, and lawyers have written articles. Professor Van Meerten did write an article about this in April 2017. That is why this point has been explicitly included in the explanatory memorandum and has also been reviewed by the Council of State. No comments have been made. For me, then, the point remains: in my opinion, this has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u52	This is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u53	This may be overwritten in the future by lawyers or other judgments, but this is the one-to-one implementation of the directive from Europe itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u54	I just find this one very complicated. Lawyers disagree, and the minister says, "I tested it." So I'm gonna repeat it so I can understand it. He says "it's a justified distinction, in accordance with the directive. It's proportional to those two thirds"? So does the Minister also say with conviction: yes, on Mr Van Rooijen's question? Thirdly, I had asked the question: what if, for example, the European Commission objects? What does that trajectory look like? I would appreciate a very brief answer to that. I see the minister watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thirdly, the European Commission itself has made this directive. The legal drafting of the directive comes from Europe, has been made by the European Commission, where it has been tested under EU law. And the directive itself distinguishes between cross-border and domestic transfers of value. In other words, the guarantees apply only to cross-border transfers of value. So that comes from the European Commission itself. I understand the point. When Mr Van Weyenberg asked the same question in the first place, I also said that I wanted to take this back in order to look at it explicitly once again. I did. I wrote that down in the letter. The distinction is therefore made in the Directive and is indeed being implemented. The second point is the two-thirds majority. In my opinion, the definition we have now included in the letter of amendment makes the majority explicit. What's the majority? The directive itself states that this is a majority of either the participants or the pensioners or that the accountability body must agree. In the letter of amendment, this was multiplied to two thirds. That's still a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u56	Certainly, but the question is, of course, whether that is proportionate. You do not want it to be such a large majority that, to quote Mr Van Rooijen, it becomes de facto impossible. I can imagine something about those two thirds, but I would like to hear from the Minister explicitly that he expects this to be proportionate. We can't go back after today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u57	As far as I know, and as far as I'm concerned, that's true. The directive allows the majority to be determined according to national law, so a qualified majority is also allowed. That is our interpretation of the law, of this directive and of its implementation. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u58	Okay, the amendments. We shall begin with the Omtzigt/Bruins amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u59	Wait a minute, I'll see if I've answered all of Mr Van Rooij's questions. Otherwise, Mr Van Rooijen will be back in a moment, so I have forgotten one of his nine questions. One of his questions was whether it was true that after a cross-border collective value transfer, the prudential framework of the Member State of the receiving pension institution applies. Yeah, that's right. If a pension fund from the Netherlands went to Belgium, the Dutch prudential framework would no longer apply, but the Belgian prudential framework would apply in the future. This may indeed lead to different requirements for maintaining technical provisions and minimum solvency requirements. In 2016, an investigation has already been carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs into these cross-border value transfers. For example, if an employer is a sponsor of a pension fund, this is counted in Belgium and not in the Netherlands. So there are indeed differences. DNB cannot and should not supervise this, as DNB supervises the Dutch prudential rules. But that is indeed a difference. Mr Omtzigt also pointed out that the prudential framework may differ between countries. I agree with that. This is also due to the fact that the directive implements minimum requirements and does not harmonise them. Each country can therefore maintain its own prudential framework. I believe that this has also been the call of the majority of the Chamber in the debate on this issue. Then there is the Omtzitzt/Bruins amendment. Mr Van Rooijen has explicitly asked questions about this. In the letter following the first deadline, I went into this in detail. I would like to discuss this again with you explicitly. I'm sorry to take time for that, Mr President, but I think it's important to have a little change. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins have tabled an amendment stating that a cross-border transfer of value must comply with the 97.5% security measure, as laid down in Article 132 of the Pension Act. I did not recommend this amendment in the first place. I'll hold on to that judgment. I have a number of reasons for this, which I would like to explain. First, DNB tests a request for collective value transfer to different criteria. These are now being specified in the IORP II Directive. You've all talked about that in detail. One of DNB's key benchmarks is whether the pension entitlements and pension rights of members and beneficiaries remain at least equal after the transfer and, second, that the assets to be transferred are appropriate and sufficient to cover the liabilities, technical provisions and other liabilities and rights to be transferred. Simply put, also for the people in the public gallery: DNB already looks at whether enough money is being transferred and whether the rights of members and beneficiaries are not affected by the transfer. I am confident that DNB will properly fill that out. In addition, it is important to realise that such a security requirement offers little additional protection to members and beneficiaries. Indeed, the 97.5% security requirement contained in Article 132 of the Pension Act can only be verified at the time of transfer itself. Then, as Mr Van Rooijen rightly said, there is another prudential framework and another supervisor. At the time of transfer there are therefore no guarantees for the future. Once the pension scheme has been transferred to the pension institution in another Member State, the Dutch financial supervisory framework no longer applies. I would like to say that the transfer of the minimum required own funds does not guarantee that the future perspective for the participant will remain the same. This depends on the prudential framework. The third reason why we do not recommend the amendment is that a collective transfer of value within the Netherlands does not take into account whether the pension fund has the required own funds. We have Article 132 Pension Act. This corresponds to a coverage rate of about 120% to 125%. For a number of years now, we have seen that a large proportion of Dutch pension funds do not reach this level. There is a recovery plan, there must be an overview of the level of coverage within ten years, but many pension funds in the Netherlands do not currently meet this level of coverage. At the same time, there may be a collective transfer of value within the Netherlands. Then we'll check if there's enough money, but then we won't check if that coverage rate of 120% is reached. This is not the case in practice in many cases. Finally, I believe that this amendment creates such a barrier in this legislative proposal that it also runs counter to the purpose and scope of the revised IORP Directive. And I consider that to be legally vulnerable, as I say to Mr Van Rooijen. That is why I did not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u60	I thank the Minister for this explanation. For this we have talked about a distinction in the majority definition of which the Minister said: yes, I deal with it differently, but the directive offers a hook for that. Do I hear the Minister now say that this amendment, as far as he is concerned, is contrary to EU law, because it distinguishes between domestic and cross-border transfers of value that are not based on European rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u61	One of my last sentences "I think that's legally vulnerable" indeed hints at that. The prudential framework of the Netherlands does not apply in Belgium or Luxembourg. Other prudential frameworks apply there. If we have a value transfer in the Netherlands that is implemented within 97.5% of Article 132 of the Pension Act, we often allow it, even if the 120% coverage rate is not reached. That's a distinction I find vulnerable. The directive does not contain a hook for this. Moreover, the Directive provides all kinds of other safeguards for cross-border transfer of value. This concerns the three which I have already mentioned in detail. DNB can explicitly check on that. This amendment goes against those safeguards, against the purpose of those safeguards, namely that in some cases, for example in the case of multinationals, it is quite justified for the participant to have pensions in one pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u62	Suppose the amendment is adopted, despite the fact that it has been dissuaded with proper justification. What happens then? Then we have an amendment in the law that could be contradictory. This could mean that the Senate is submitting the amendment to the Council of State. Then it comes back here and then the minister takes it out again. We're not gonna make it anymore, because by mid-January it's gonna have to be in the Official Journal. Isn't this a case belli? We shouldn't want this, or we're gonna walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u63	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u64	My answer was clear, too. I have explicitly discouraged the amendment three times, in the first period, extended in the letter and in the second period. I assume this Chamber listens to my convincing argument. I find complicated as-then reasoning, because then I would go against the wishes of the majority of the Chamber. Apart from that, Mr Van Rooijen is always right, of course, that I should go to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u65	This is clear. We will see it on Tuesday when we vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr Omtzigt makes a fine remark. Who's gonna be in the First Chamber? That is Mr Van Rooijen again. Then we get the same...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u67	There's gonna be elections first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u69	Your third block, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u70	I'm just looking for my response to the UPO. Mr Omtzigt in particular asked questions about this. In the letter following the first term, I went into the technique of the scenarios in detail on that Uniform Pension Statement. Mr Omtzigt's question is actually about the level of coverage according to Dutch standards versus the level of coverage of the country it is going to. In many cases it is Belgium or Luxembourg, because of its comparability. After transfer to another Member State, there is no more Dutch coverage, as the prudential framework of another Member State applies. The participant must be able to know how much pension he can expect. That's also on the Uniform Pension Review. Those three scenarios, those images of a negative scenario, an expected scenario and a positive scenario, provide for this. I explained in detail in the letter what the assumptions are. On the basis of these scenario sets, the Dutch pension participant gets an insight into what to expect. At the same time, of course, the prudential framework differs from the two Member States. That's what I've just argued extensively. The second point is: what can the participant do with it, what is the perspective of action? We have also discussed this extensively in the first period. The participant can say: I expect this later; when the weather is bad, it is less and when the weather is good, it is more. He can then decide to save more, pay extra on the house or spend a lot of money because he expects to be very rich later. That is the added value of the UPO. Mr Omtzigt's other question was whether, on request, he could be on the UPO within three months of what happens when you go to another country. I am in the process of evaluating the Pension Communication Act and I propose that Mr Omtzigt's request be included. I'll be right back to talk about the motion. Then the rewards. Mr Van Kent felt that I had read it a little too technical the last time. There were a lot of questions asked, so I apologize for that. I shall now try to bring it to Mr Van Kent with a little more fire. Mr Van Kent's central question is: do you think there should be limits to salaries, bonuses, pension fund managers and asset managers? I think it is important that the participants' money is handled responsibly. However, I do not think it is up to the cabinet, and I want to be very explicit about this, to deal with salaries in the pension sector. Pension funds are set up by employers' and employees' organisations, the trade unions. They are also on the board of pension funds. They are about the management of pension funds, about outsourcing policies and about remuneration policies. The responsibility for this really lies with employers and employees. In doing so, the Pension Act provides a framework for a controlled remuneration policy. This is what the managers of both employers' and employees' sides of industry, trade unions and accountability bodies must base their policies on. I do not want to go further on this point, as I said in the first term. That is why I did not recommend Mr Van Kent's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u71	I think this is too easy. It's about money that belongs to employees and pensioners. Investors go home with bonuses of a total of two billion. Tons of money are paid to pension fund and pension fund managers. But this minister says: yes, that is how the law works and it is up to employers and trade unions to set boundaries. I note that these limits are not set and I would like to know from the Minister whether he agrees that these billions and tons of salaries are paid to investors and pension fund managers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u72	Billions of bonuses? Is that what Mr. Van Kent says?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u73	Investor bonuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr Van Kent himself says in his question: that is money that employers and employees have brought together at the collective bargaining table. They have negotiated this and manage it in a pension fund. Employers and employees themselves occupy the board of that pension fund. They shall also establish a remuneration policy for this purpose. If employers and employees want to adapt that themselves, then that is their right. That's what they're about. We only have a framework law on the controlled remuneration policy to be implemented by the driver. So if Mr Van Kent wants to change that, then he will have to be with the friends of the unions, because they are about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr. Van Kent, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u76	I know that pension fund boards are populated by employers and employees. They seem unable to set these limits, otherwise these rewards would not have been paid. We have seen this before in housing corporations and care institutions, where borders are also set by politics. At the moment, we see that these limits are severely exceeded: 2 billion in investor bonuses, pension fund directors and executives who bring home up to six tons of salary per year while pensioning is under pressure, reduction in pension...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u77	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u78	My question to the Minister is whether he would like to assess the amendment on the point that political limits should be imposed if they cannot set those limits. If the House of Representatives decides to apply the Top Income Standards Act to housing corporations, this can also be done in the pension sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u79	The central point in Mr Van Kent's speech is that they are not in a position to limit remuneration policy. That's what Mr. Van Kent says. I could answer: or do they not want to, because they make a different balance between return, risk and reward? This brings me once again to my fundamental point: employers, employees and pension fund managers themselves deal with this within the framework of the controlled remuneration policy. So I'm still dissuading the motion. I don't think that's gonna change my opinion on that. I often see Mr Van Kent taking action on the streets, but he has to put the point where it is decided: the pension fund boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u80	I see that Mr Van Kent is very displeased that I am not giving him another opportunity to make the same point for the third time, I am sure. Do you have a new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u81	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I keep hearing the Minister describe how things are going, but I have proposed changing the way things are going, so changing the law. Will the Minister comment on the SP's proposal to amend the law to put an end to the burrowing in the pension sector instead of describing what is going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u82	I have done so extensively in the first period. I do not intend to do that because I see no reason to change this policy. I did not recommend the amendment, partly because of the argument that I believe that the employers and employees themselves are concerned about it. That is why I did not recommend the amendment. I see no need to amend the law on this point. Mr Van Kent considers this unsatisfactory. I understand. This is my fourth reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u83	Clear. Well, then we're at the evaluation and the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr Omtzigt, but also Mr Van der Linde, have explicitly asked if I am prepared to evaluate. In doing so, they have a specific question on reporting obligations and key officials. I think it is good to carry out an overall evaluation of the implementation of the IORP. Mr Omtzigt mentioned a period of two years. The implementation is scheduled for January 2019. I would suggest that the evaluation be carried out in 2022. The directive still needs to be implemented in practice. I see Mr Van der Linde nodding. I do not see Mr Omtzigt at the moment. Ah, there he is again. I see he's nodding too. He therefore agrees with my commitment to an evaluation in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u85	Then we've arrived at the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u86	The motions. The motion in part No. 17 by Mr Van Kent and Mr Gijs van Dijk on the rewards and on investors...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u87	The Minister said in his speech that he would also return to the question of interest and soft claims. Is he gonna do that after the motions or not yet, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u88	In fact, I do not want to go into this at the moment, because this debate is not about the interest rate. What I do find interesting was Mr Van Rooijen's speech. If he dares me... Mr Van Rooijen said: 'The Minister has the President of De Nederlandsche Bank pull the hot coals out of the fire'. I think that is a bit of a distortion of the facts and of history. It was in a debate with Mr Van Rooijen that Mr Van Rooijen said: 'The President of De Nederlandsche Bank has said something about the accounting rate and the Minister says something else'. Then I responded: "I can't imagine the President of De Nederlandsche Bank saying anything other than me, but I'll check with him, so I'll check with Mr Knot on what he said. I will inform your Chamber by letter whether there is indeed a light between the views of the Minister and those of the President of De Nederlandsche Bank." I did so at the request of Mr Van Rooijen. Then I get the question where my own vision is. At the time, I gave my vision in the debate with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr. Van Rooijen, before we move on. I know you still have an initiative proposal where this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u90	That has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u91	However, it does not fit in with this deadline at the moment when we are dealing with the motions. The Minister has made it clear that he has already answered your question. I would like to prevent us from having another whole debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u92	In my first term, I spoke only about the interest rate and at the end of my speech about the directive that is being discussed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u93	But in his first term, the Minister undoubtedly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u94	No, because the letter from the minister and from De Nederlandsche Bank came from the Netherlands. Perhaps that's not entirely coincidental the day after the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u95	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u96	And so this is the only way to bring it up. I'll come back to it later. I just want to point out that the minister has his own responsibility for pensions and that he cannot hide behind a supervisor who says: I think it is in the law. The Minister decides whether this is the case under the law and not the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. Otherwise, you will only be a pigeon of the letters of the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. The President said in the debate with me that he agrees with me that if the claims were to be reduced, the interest rate could change. That is what Mrs Van Vollenhoven and all your predecessors have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u97	All right, your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u98	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan herhalen wat ik net heb gezegd.]] Mr Van Rooijen and I had a general debate on pensions. There I have argued what my image, my vision is about the calculation rate. I said, you have to assume the risk-free interest rate structure. Then Mr Van Rooijen said: but that is not what Klaas Knot, President of De Nederlandsche Bank, said. Then I said: I would be surprised, but I will check with Mr Knot on your request. I did. Mr Knot then sent me a nice letter: well, Mr Van Rooijen misunderstood me. I sent that letter to your room in full. Next, Mr Van Rooijen tells me that I have no idea. That's kind of a reversal of the facts, of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr. Van Rooijen, I'm going to be very strict. I will not give you the floor again. There will be plenty of opportunities to have this debate with the Minister again. I have the feeling that the arguments have been exchanged at this time and certainly at this stage of the debate. We'll continue with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr. Chairman. I'm missing two motions in my own administration. I've been looking for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u101	No doubt Mr Omtzigt's motion, because it came a little later, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u102	May I have the third and fourth motions, please? I'll start with the motion in part No. 17 by Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Dijk on the discussion on investor bonuses. I have just had a wide-ranging debate on this with Mr Van Kent. I want to discourage the motion with the same arguments I just used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u103	The motion in part No. 17 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u104	The motion in part No. 18 by Mr De Jong and Mrs Maeijer, on the issue of pension policy as a national issue where there is no EU involvement. I agree with the aim of the directive, namely to promote the further development of second pillar pensions in the European Union. An important added value of the Directive is the tightening up and clarification of the rules of the game for such cross-border transfer of value. In addition, the Netherlands, as a Member State, is obliged to implement the directive, as Mr Omtzigt rightly said. That's why we're here together. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u105	The motion in part No. 18 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u106	The motion in part No. Mr Van Rooijen asked the government to submit the second letter of amendment to the Council of State. I think we have just gone into that in detail in the debate. I do not see any added value of this, so this one too is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u107	The motion in part No. 19 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u108	The motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's 20 on the UPO should also be read as well: calls on the government to ensure that the UPO always contains the information about the pension, when the participant changes his job; calls on the government to ensure that the UPO always contains the amount and conditions of the survivor's pension; calls on the government to make concrete proposals to allow members to derive enforceable rights. I would suggest that I include this in the evaluation of pension communication. However, enforceable rights can only be enforced under the pension scheme. They're in the pension scheme and not in the Uniform Pension Statement. The Uniform Pension Overview is a communication tool to give people insight into what they have saved and what the expected pension is. But it is not an instrument to base enforceable rights. That is why I would certainly advise against that part of the motion. However, if Mr Omtzigt can continue the motion to include it in the evaluation of pension communication or come back to it next Monday, I would appreciate it very much. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u109	I give the floor to the author. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u110	I'll come back to that on Monday. I understand that request, but I'd like to make a comparison with a bank account. We have over 400 billion euros in bank accounts and deposits in the Netherlands, but if that's not on your overview, you do have rights. Also here: the moment you get a wrong UPO I can provide the examples of people who thought they had a survivor's pension and didn't get it you really can't go anywhere. Then you're supposed to have read your pension regulations. Then your UPO is of no value. If the Minister were to interpret it in such a way that he would study how people can understand their rights. Because the bottleneck isn't in him that no mistake is made, the bottleneck is in him that people lets people find out that they have absolutely no rights and therefore completely sink through the ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u111	I agree with Mr Omtzigt on this point. I have said that before when it comes to a risk-based survivor's pension versus a capital-based pension, and if you switch from one scheme to another, what are you entitled to? I very much agree with Mr Omtzig. Whether it should be through a UPO and enforceable rights, I doubt it, because you will then have a whole legalization of the UPO, for which it is not intended. But I'm sure I'll come back to that. We will soon have another debate on your own own initiative paper on the survivor's pension, and I would like to return to that in the context of communication. But to do it so briefly in an enforceable right, I strongly advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u112	So the question to Mr Omtzig is whether he is holding the motion or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u113	Yeah, and I'll be back on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u114	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (34934, No. 20). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u115	I have another question for the Minister. Does he still want to answer the nine questions I have asked in writing? Depending on that, I'll see if there'll be a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u116	Then Mr Van Rooijen must help me. What nine questions is that? In my view, I have answered all the questions put by Mr Van Rooijen, at least the spirit of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u117	In general terms, but I would like an explicit written answer to the nine questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u118	Then I suggest that you submit the nine questions in writing. I can, of course, read the report, but I feel that I have answered all of Mr Van Rooij's questions, unless one of them has not been answered, and I would like to hear it from Mr Van Rooijen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u119	I will deliver those questions to you in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u120	For speed, I might be able to answer the questions now. Then I would like to know from Mr Van Rooijen which question has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u121	Some of your questions have indeed been addressed by the Minister. So if it's not clear what questions that is then, Mr. Van Rooijen, then I think that's it for the moment. I'm looking at the members. We have come to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u122	The amendments and motions will be voted on next Tuesday. We are going to continue with a debate on the fraud of the Polish migrant workers' benefits, including this minister. I'll suspend for a few moments.
