ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with Mr Nijboer's question on behalf of the PvdA.......................................................................................................................................................................... If there is an exchange of spokesperson, I very much appreciate that it will be passed on in good time. I call Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. 26 January 2017: I've never seen those interview reports. Thus the prime minister on the Teeven deal, which eventually forced Opstelten, Teeven and Van der Steur to resign. February 13, 2018: I haven't exactly discussed it with who I have or haven't discussed it with. Thus the Prime Minister on the statements of the now resigned Minister Zijlstra. 20 April 2018: I have no memory of that; I am not aware of that, not to this day. About the memos that turned out to be there about the abolition of dividend tax, the gift of EUR 1.4 billion to foreign investors. Mr. Chairman. This is a pattern. Whoever knows Mr. Rutte knows he's a control freak. We see that every time a file becomes difficult all of The Hague knows all about it, except for the Prime Minister himself. So the question is whether the Prime Minister here is a pathological non-knowledge or whether it is difficult with the truth. That is why I have the following oral questions. 1. Can the Prime Minister indicate whether he deliberately informed the Chamber wrongly or incompletely on 15 November? 2. Can the Prime Minister state whether, on this burning issue, no one has informed him of the existence or the content of the memos until Thursday 19 April? 3. Were the documents also made public if Minister Wiebes wasn't caught by De Telegraaf on a lie about dividend memos? 4. According to Minister Koolmees, they were on the tax table and Minister Wiebes said they weren't. Who's right? And finally. 5. Is it now time for the coalition consultation to decide what information is to be made public to the House of Representatives instead of simply going to the Chamber, as it should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. During that debate, I think it was in November, when the government declaration was issued, I said that, to my best knowledge, there was no memo on the dividend tax requested by the informant or informal, but of course all kinds of texts in the process of formation. In doing so, I have unintentionally suggested that there should be no parts of the dividend tax for the purpose of formation at all. Because of this confusion, I also said this to the media yesterday, and I decided, with my colleagues in the coalition, to make a one-off exception to the confidentiality of the documents. This concerns the official documents produced for the purpose of the formation, as mentioned in the rejection of the WOB request. I have decided to add those two memos from Secretary of State Wiebes sent to him as Secretary of State, but the date of which is in any case in the months when the formation took place. It is currently being asked by departments whether there are any documents on this subject that have been prepared for formation. We all want to send that to the Chamber today and we will undoubtedly have a debate on it. That is the state of play. I think it's good that those pieces are coming now. I can easily imagine that the Chamber is organising a debate on this and I am happy to be available for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	No answers to the questions for six months and no answers now. I asked the Prime Minister if he had deliberately misinformed the Chamber or only incompletely informed it. I asked if there was anyone who told him last Thursday about the existence of these memos, because that is very unlikely if you know that several ministers have acknowledged that they knew about them. I asked if these documents were also made public without catching Minister Wiebes. Once again, the Prime Minister chooses to refer to statements in the media for a six-month period, the Chamber is waiting to refer to something that is going to happen in the future and not to answer a question that not only I, but this whole Chamber has been around for more than six months. So again: 1. was it conscious, 2. had it also happened without Wiebes and 3. has there been no one who informed the Prime Minister? Because that's last Friday's claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u6	I said in the debate that I have no memory of a memo that was on the table at the formation memos outside the file sent to the Chamber as part of the formation. That's still the situation. I didn't have that memory and I can't have that memory afterwards, because I didn't have it. The article in Trouw last Friday also showed that there were pieces. And I didn't know that until last Friday. Thirdly, the decision to make those documents public is my decision, but Mr Asscher knows better than anyone that it is normal in a coalition to discuss these things naturally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u7	While this has been the subject of a heated debate for six months, the Prime Minister has therefore opened the newspaper on Friday morning and thought: hey, there appear to be some documents on it, that's a coincidence. This, while in the meantime the Minister of Finance had rejected the WOB request. According to the Prime Minister, he wasn't informed. Hasn't anyone been around his staff, directors, officials, colleagues, political assistants who at some point said: I feel a little uncomfortable because those dividend memos, they are there? Is there no one who has said: Clover asked about it, others asked about it: they are there, so maybe we should tell the Chamber sometime? No, the newspaper opened, and out of the goodness of his heart, the Prime Minister wants to make an exception once. That's bullshit! That's bullshit! Be equestrian; this has been mistreated and mismanaged from day one. That's because the call about this dividend tax is a bad decision. The documents had to be kept secret, it was a matter of principle that you don't make it public, but three days later it becomes public. My appeal to the Prime Minister is to be honest. And my appeal to the coalition parties is: be honest. There were people who knew memos, MPs were involved and MPs were involved in the decision to make them public now. Be honest, take that whole decision off the table and open it up, because this is ultimately something that is even bigger than that 1.4 billion, namely how the cabinet deals with our Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr Asscher uses great words, and that is permitted. But let me just give you my answer. I said in the debate last November that I have no memory that there would have been memos on the table about dividend taxes other than those contained in the formation file. I've said that to the best of my conscience. Mr Asscher asks: did you know until last Friday that those memos were there? To that question I say to honour and conscience: I did not know that. Did I know? Yeah, maybe, but I didn't know. I'll give you an honest answer to that question. Mr Asscher has doubts about this answer, and he is free to do so, but this is the answer I give to my conscience. And because, looking back on that debate last November, I might have given the impression that there were indeed no documents, which I had no memory of at least, but which have now turned out to be there, I thought it nice to make a one-off exception and to give those documents to the Chamber. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now turn to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that this Prime Minister has lost all credibility. But a memo, not a memo, but at the main table, not at the main table, at the side table, it can't go public, okay, we'll make it public anyway; we'll all talk about that tomorrow. But credibility has lost the Prime Minister, for the whole of the Netherlands. What I would like to ask him right now is whether he is prepared to take advantage of this moment to take the measure off the table. EUR 1.4 billion for the abolition of the dividend tax. It is money that goes to foreign shareholders and that we can also spend on Dutch pensions, on a lower own risk or on a lower rent for the people who now desperately need that money. They're looking for a relief. That is my question to the Prime Minister. Tomorrow we'll talk about his lack of credibility. Are you willing to spend that 1.4 billion on the Dutch and not, as you intend, on your friends from Unilever?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u11	In the first half of Mr Wilders' speech, I refer to my answer to Mr Asscher's question. I disagree with his conclusion. In the second half of his speech, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr President, on a point of order. I would like to ask you, Mr President, why we are now discussing this brilliant and large dossier in Question Time when there is going to be a big debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u13	The arrangement is yet to come. I cannot reject oral questions on the assumption that there is a majority in favour of a request under the scheme. If I did that, we would not be able to accept many oral questions. Moreover, there were no procedural obstacles to rejecting this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr President, have you asked Mr Asscher why he is not postponing his questions to the debate that is sure to take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u15	What I did behind the scenes, I am not going to share with you during oral Question Time, Mr van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr President, it remains bizarre, but I understand your formal point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you. But you had no further questions, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u18	I do, but if I am going to ask another question, Mr Krol is not allowed to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u19	I am going to see Mr Azarkan now. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's true. If we're talking about giving 1.4 billion away to companies like Unilever and Shell, then the cabinet is doing it very quickly. We just got out of the crisis, and instead of giving that money to the people who spent most of it, we're giving away that 1.4 billion, which net cash might be 50, 60 billion. Now I honestly don't understand that you don't know that and that you do it on the basis of a number of analyses. On what basis do you give away all these billions, and on what basis did the Prime Minister make that assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u21	We had this discussion last year in the debate on the declaration of government: you do not take all the decisions on the basis of documents requested at that time, on the spot. Of course, decisions are also taken on the basis of a ripening of decision-making in the months and years preceding them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u22	Second supplementary question? No? Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u23	There were no memories of memos. They were there then, but on other tables. Then they could not be made public, now they can be made public because the wrong impression has been created. I actually have one question for the Prime Minister. I do indeed hope that the Chamber will agree to hold a wide-ranging debate on this tomorrow, because I certainly do not understand any of that. We will certainly talk about this, but in preparation for that debate I have one question for the Prime Minister. For the second time now, I stand before the Prime Minister, here in this Chamber, in a debate. Last time, it was about Zijlstra's lie. The Prime Minister said that was not a political mortal sin. In fact, the truth turned out to be an option, and only a problem for the Prime Minister when that truth came into the paper. In preparation for tomorrow, does the Prime Minister still not think that lying is a political mortal sin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u24	I did not put it that way, so that summary of my comment is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u25	I would almost like to say to the Prime Minister: enjoy this moment when you get rid of this kind of short answers. I am very looking forward to the debate this week, after the memos have arrived, to discuss this matter in detail. For today, I actually have a very simple question. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the debate we are having is not about memos and whether they are there or not, or whether the dividend tax is desirable or not, but that the debate is now about whether people can still trust their Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr President, that is not up to me. Mr Klaver asked me a question in November: do you have a reminder of pieces, other than in the formation file, which are about dividend taxation? I just repeated the answer again. I said at the time that pieces were asked out by the table, which is in the formation file. There are, of course, always texts that are in the pipeline for the real coalition agreement. But I don't remember other memos; they turn out to be there. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u27	Second supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u28	I would like to make a second additional comment. I would assume that you will have a serious debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u29	If you do not believe this of me, you will have all kinds of questions to ask tomorrow, but this will be the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u30	I have a substantive question for the Prime Minister. He just said, "I have no memory of it." I'd like to believe that. Friday, for the first time, he found out that there were indeed pieces, if I interpret his words correctly. I'm gonna take a look at the Prime Minister and see if he is. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u31	If you ask your question, I will answer the whole question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u32	But if you don't, you're gonna turn around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u33	Finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u34	The Prime Minister says, "Friday, I suddenly knew about it." Now it is true that Mr Wiebes, a member of his cabinet, had memos before in his information round. How does this Prime Minister judge Mr Wiebes' statement in the light of the fact that he did and did not tell the Prime Minister that until Friday? How does he judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u35	I shall be sending two memos tomorrow, which Mr Wiebes received as Secretary of State for Finance in the period during which the formation took place, on the issue of the abolition of the dividend tax. They'll be on the set tomorrow, or tonight, sorry. They'll come with us when we send the piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u36	When are these pieces coming to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u37	We'll try as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u38	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u39	As far as I am concerned, that will be today, but as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u40	With the Prime Minister, you're about to ask: is it today and not another day? He's not answering the question. How does Mr Rutte judge the fact that Mr Wiebes already had a memo, two even, on this subject and apparently he did not inform the Prime Minister about it? That's the question. I'd like an answer from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u41	We'll have a debate tomorrow. That will be the question of whether I have honestly answered Mr Klaver's question as to whether I have no memory of other documents than those in the file. I'll get right to your question. You shook your head again, but I try to control you with this run-up as much as possible. I didn't have that memory. That's right. Then the pieces turn out to be there. With my answer, I gave the impression that those pieces were not there. We have made the decision to release these documents once. In the set that comes tomorrow there are also two memos from Eric Wiebes, who are also in that WOB request and who were made for him as Secretary of State at the time when there was also talk in the formation about abolishing the dividend tax. There's nothing wrong with that, is there? The Secretary of State for Finance is allowed to receive documents on tax-relevant issues, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you. No, you're not getting the floor, Mr. Van Raan, you've asked your questions.
