ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u1	We start with the debate on the SCP report on residential initiatives set up by parents for their children with disabilities. I welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "We all want that homely feeling they've gotten from home, that security, that they're gonna find it with and with each other." A parent talking about the parental initiative for her child. A place where parents themselves arrange care and support for their children. In short, fantastic initiatives. But as someone wrote it to me in the run-up to this debate, the parent initiatives are more vulnerable than ever. I would like to thank everyone for all the input that has been sent to this debate. I have, I must say, a great deal of respect for all those parents who start these kinds of initiatives. You'll just have to stand next to your job, your care, to realize this. Mr. Chairman. One of the biggest threats identified in the SCP report is financial uncertainty. Look at the decrease in the number of pgbs: at the end of 2017 more than 30,000 less pgbs than at the end of 2015. Also when it comes to the amounts, there has been a decrease: EUR 225 million less allocated in the WMO during the same period. There is more uncertainty, for example when it comes to the housing initiative bonus. Within the Wlz this is a given. After all, it is also important that you can invest in home automation and fire safety. But parental initiatives based on a pgb-Wmo also depend on their municipalities. In the government agreement it was agreed that local authorities should be encouraged to pay particular attention to small-scale housing initiatives. I would like a detailed reflection of the Minister on the points I just raised. About the Wmo there is also a often heard complaint about the short duration of the indications. This leads to uncertainty and too much administration that is unnecessary, because of people with a certain limitation you know that the situation is not suddenly different in a year's time. Municipalities are also saddled with a lot of extra work due to the constant re-indication circus. Could the Minister with the VNG set up one or more pilots when it comes to those longer indicative decisions? After all, the Wmo offers that possibility. Mr. Chairman. Another major challenge for such initiatives is the regulatory burden. I was shocked when a parent wrote to me about all the laws and regulations that apply and which they have to comply with: the Wkkgz which makes a parent authority jointly and severally responsible, the GDPR, energy legislation, rental legislation and so on. Is the Minister prepared to carry out an investigation with all relevant parties into this regulatory burden for residential initiatives, of course with the aim of looking at how we can reduce them? Does the Minister wish to facilitate parental initiatives, for example, to establish a quality framework for pgb-funded parental initiatives in order to promote effective low-level care in parental initiatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u3	I was perhaps a little too quick to get to the microphone, because Mrs Bergkamp has already partly answered my question. My question is about the Quality Framework for Nursing Care, which now also applies to these pgb initiatives. That is a quality framework for relatively larger institutions with a lot of demands and rules that are desirable when it comes to larger institutions, but which one can really wonder if its purpose is not missed when it comes to these housing initiatives. Does Mrs Bergkamp with GroenLinks think that this quality framework should really not apply to residential care initiatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u4	In my speech, I put a question to the Minister to see whether a lower regulatory pressure regime could apply. I also asked the question to look at, for example, a quality framework specific to pgb-funded parent initiatives. It seems very good to me that the Minister is looking at that. I agree with you that if we look at the laws and regulations now, but also the rules that apply, that is far too much. This is a real threat to existing housing initiatives and also a threat to initiatives to start up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mrs Ellemeet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mrs Bergkamp is pulling it wide, and I understand that. We're dealing with a lot of rules. I zoom in on the Quality Framework Nursing Home Care, because that is in itself very much and extensive. I interpret Mrs Bergkamp's words in such a way that we should get rid of them and look at an appropriate alternative to these initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u7	I'm in favour of appropriate regulation. Of course, the quality of care must be the same. I assume that GroenLinks agrees with me, but let's see if we can please reduce all the adjacent regulations that are not relevant. So that's what I'm sharing. Mr. Chairman. I also note that there is a need for more knowledge when starting these parental initiatives. There are very nice best practices. Sometimes you build up a lot of experience by doing it. What could the Minister mean when it comes to the dissemination of knowledge? The idea was put forward, for example, to set up a knowledge centre. I think it would be very good to facilitate and support parents in this. It's often very difficult too. I've also received a letter from parents with very severely limited children to find a suitable home. That's incredibly difficult. My question to the Minister is: can the right to challenge, for example, be helpful? Mr President, I will conclude. For us, the SCP report provides a clear picture: new parental initiatives are difficult to get off the ground by legislation and regulation, and existing initiatives are severely affected by declining sources of funding and other uncertainties. I do not like to be gloomy, but I really fear that the improvement measures that this minister comes up with are not enough, not enough to allow the existing parental initiatives to exist, but also to encourage more of these beautiful parental initiatives. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mrs Bergkamp talks very chic about'rescending sources of funding', but we always call declining sources of funding cuts. There has, of course, been considerable savings in recent years on municipal care, on the Wmo. Mrs Bergkamp of D66 has always been there and has agreed to do so. Even now, we have very often had discussions with this minister about the deficits in municipalities. I understand that Mrs Bergkamp is concerned, but should she not look at what she has done in this regard over the past few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u9	It's kind of lame to say, what did the SP do? But let me take the question really seriously. I also stated in my speech that I am concerned about the decline in the number of pgbs in the Wmo. I have also put a question to the Minister about the declining budgets that are being provided. I have often said in my contributions that, as far as I am concerned, there is discouragement of the personal budget and that the old initiatives are bearing the consequences at the moment. That has been my input in several AO's and several debates. I would also ask the Minister to respond in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u10	It's not just about the pgbs. It's also about whether the municipalities have enough money to pay for what they have to do. That is not the case at the moment. Certain surcharges that were there at first are no longer provided by municipalities. We are now discussing whether the municipalities will still be able to pay for all the costs of municipal care. That's all your policy, all your policy. On the one hand, having agreed to all cuts in the past, you can now keep your hands on the cut again and say on the other hand that it is all so difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u11	This is always so easy from the SP: a lot of shouting and then not really coming up with good initiatives. But let me confine this debate to the pgb, because that is what we are talking about today, about the parent initiatives. I have asked a number of questions to the Minister that I am also concerned about when it comes to the decline in the number of pgbs, the decline in the budget. I also think that we should do something about that. I have said before that there is discouragement. Well, when we look at the figures, there is a trend, so I would also like to reflect on that, so that we not only call from the sidelines but can really see with each other as Chamber what we can do to strengthen the parent initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u12	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u13	Well, I actually want... I did not limit the number of interruptions on the assumption that you are dealing with them a little carefully yourself. Otherwise, things are gonna get completely out of control, but you know that, too. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr Hijink's question has just been followed up. As far as my group is concerned, we must indeed look constructively at how we can improve the situation. But fair is fair: I also think it is important to look at the concerns that are now being expressed by people involved, for example in day-to-day spending, which is an important part of these initiatives. There has indeed been considerable cuts in the budget. It was not for nothing that my group also opposed the Municipal Fund in 2015...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u15	We know that, but now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u16	...has voted. This is important if we are to be able to point out the question. The question is whether Mrs Bergkamp is not also...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u17	Well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u18	...knows that the cuts that have taken place in the municipality make this situation more difficult for those housing initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u19	I also felt that the austerity of the previous cabinet was too great. That is why we, together with Christian Union and SGP, have ensured that extra money is added when it comes to daily spending. I didn't find GroenLinks on my side then, but ChristianUnion and SGP tried to reverse some of the hard cuts that were there. But it's true it's difficult. When I look at the policy of discouragement, we share the view that it is good to see what we can do about it. Because the pgb is just a very nice initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you. Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr. Chairman. We all know the stories of parents who are still unable to find a good place for a child with disabilities. I can very well imagine that parents in such a situation, so a situation in which regular care does not deliver what is necessary, are pulling their own hands together. The growth in the number of parental initiatives is thus a response to the political policy that is being pursued here in this Chamber, a policy of scaling up and austerity and bureaucratising care, which means that people can no longer find the care they are looking for. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees. Doesn't he think that, when people are looking for small scale and control, that is something that we as a society need to organise? Mr. Chairman. The SP would like the Minister to clarify what exactly is a parental initiative in his view. In its report, the SCP seems to distinguish between houses that are not commercially designed and managed by parents and clients and houses that are part of a earning model where parents and clients do not have the control over care and access. Does the Minister make that distinction and does he agree with the SP that parental initiatives should be run on a non-commercial basis? How does the Minister look at the income models that have emerged after parental initiatives have been converted into profitable franchise constructions? What does he think about profit being made over the back of vulnerable people? Mr. Chairman. Money intended for care must go to care. However, we see that in some cases pgb funds are used to finance real estate. How does the Minister feel about that? Does he share the opinion of the SP that care money should not end up in the rent or purchase of expensive properties? Is the Minister prepared to arrange for parental initiatives that are currently running with pgb funds to be given a place in regular care, in care in kind, as parents at least want to? Because of course it is nonsense that control and involvement could only be organized with a pgb. A foundation with an independent board or an association of involved parents should also be given a place within the Long-Term Care Act or within the municipal care system, you might say. I ask the Minister if he agrees. Doesn't he think, like the SP, that it's actually a bit strange that in some places the sum of pgbs has become a form of institution care? That's not really what it was meant for, is it? Wouldn't it be nice if parents' initiatives, which now have an uncertain future, could get a more solid form of funding? Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp has requested this debate because many parental initiatives are under pressure. We just had that debate. This is, of course, largely due to the cuts in recent years. Mrs Ellemeet is right to say that the cuts in daily spending mean that many fewer people can go to locations like this, making funding more difficult. The rates have been reduced in many municipalities, writes the SCP. The supplement for residential initiatives has also often been abolished. The indications often last only short, one or two years, while everyone understands that a large group of people need mentored living for a much longer time. This creates a lot of uncertainty for the parents, but certainly also for children and people who live there. We are not even talking about the shortage of allowances and the reduction of benefits, which has made it very much more difficult for people with disabilities in recent years. I find it very painful to read in the report that parents see that their children actually have nothing of their income after deduction of care costs and housing costs. How does the Minister feel about that now? Don't these people deserve better? And can the Minister look at how the income position of this group can be improved, for example by considering donations from parents as special assets, so that they do not immediately go up to higher own contributions and less bonuses? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u22	I like the fact that Mr Hijink is standing up for the personal budget. I have requested this debate on the parental initiatives. We have also had regular debates with the SP on the fact that the SP is not at all a supporter of the personal budget, but actually always opts for care in kind. Is this a trend break?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u23	Then Mrs Bergkamp didn't listen very well. We are not opposed to the personal budget. We never were. What we always say is that the pgb is often an answer to the lack of good care through care in kind, through the care institutions we all know. That is what I said in my introduction. I believe the minister called it a lifeline yesterday. The Minister always likes to speak English, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u24	I don't, because here they just speak Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u25	Then let's call it a life buoy, Mr. Chairman. The pgb is currently a life buoy for many people. There's no other option. So the pgb is taken to the pgb to be able to organize it. I think that's a weakness offer. I believe that we, as a society, should be able to organise care so smallly, with the control of parents and their children, that they do not have to go to the pgb, because the pgb is not an attractive option for many people in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u26	I welcome this development. Does that mean that the SP sees the pgb as an equivalent alternative to care in kind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u27	Well, equal... It's about what's best... Don't run away, Mrs Bergkamp; I'll give you an answer. It's about what's best in the situation people are in. My estimate is that in most cases pgb is not the best solution. Look at all the examples we've had over the past year, such as assisted living projects where multiple pgbs of very vulnerable people, who need guidance and debt, are swept together and put into a big pot. We have no idea what is happening to that money, and people themselves have no idea whether they are getting the care they deserve. For that group I would say: it is an institution, and it should actually be paid properly from the ministry or from the municipality. Those people weren't helped with a personal budget. I think you should look at the situation. Where people can direct, there can be a pgb. It's a good choice there, too, or it could be. But in a lot of cases it isn't. I think we should take a more critical look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u28	I am disappointed that Mr Hijink says literally: for most people, pgb is not a suitable instrument. I think we should look very closely at the wishes and indeed the ability of people to deal with such a pgb. Because I don't think it's about quantity, but for some people this is really an excellent tool. It offers them the opportunity to shape the way they want to organise their care and the way they want to combine a home and care. I would therefore very much like to remove Mr Hijink's incomprehension for those for whom this is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u29	But that's exactly what I said. A pgb is asking a lot, isn't it? A personal budget requires that you have the full direction of organizing the care. That actually means you're gonna be some kind of employer, you're gonna hire people to take care of you. You're actually gonna be a mini-care facility. Not everyone is capable of that. Mrs Hermans recently proposed: should we give people who do not speak the Dutch language a pgb? I think it is a very fair question that she raises. If you can't read the rules and contracts needed for a pgb, then I don't think you're gonna be able to do it in a good way. I thought that was a very valid point. I think there are more such situations. For example, if people have such a limitation that they can't handle it intellectually, I think it's even a link to putting those people in a pgb, because then abuse is lurking. So I think we should take a very critical look at that. And yes, the group you mean, people who are very capable of directing themselves, must do so. I agree. Now it just happens too often that people who can't get a pgb after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u30	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yeah, it's kind of complicated. That is why it is so important that we take steps now to see how we make it as accessible as possible. This is now being worked on, also in the whole system that we are developing. At the same time, it is, of course, very important that we also radiate together in the direction of municipalities that we also grant this to the people for whom this is a very important solution. Because, as Mrs Bergkamp also points out, those numbers have fallen dramatically. It may be an undesirable solution for some people, but for others this is something that can help them enormously to organize care as they want. I think it is also up to us to give the municipalities the signal to give that space if those people want it and are able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u32	But what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u33	I don't have a question, Mr. Chairman. This was a final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u34	No, that's not the point of interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u35	What Mrs Ellemeet is saying is exactly what I say: for the group she means, pgb can be a very good instrument. I believe that we are in complete agreement on this point, but I think that too many cases are too easy to grasp. Moreover, that is my first point in the direction of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it should not be a response to failing care within institutions that cannot regulate the small scale and involvement of people they should be able to regulate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that we are discussing this important issue and that Mrs Bergkamp has requested this debate. My group has always fought for this. Mrs Voortman has always made this an important point in the previous period. Why is this important? Parents who set up a housing initiative for their children do not always choose the easiest way, but the benefits can sometimes outweigh the burden. A father with a daughter with learning difficulties managed to put it very nicely in the report before us. He said, "I want to create the situation that when I close my eyes I know for sure that she is right." I think that's what every parent is about, and I think he's absolutely right about that. Not the municipality, the provider or the care manager, but parents and children are in charge of these housing initiatives. They decide who they live with and how they decorate it. Since July 2016, the UN Convention applies to people with disabilities. We also agreed that people with disabilities have the right to participate in society as effectively as possible on their own. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, parental initiatives are a good example to ensure that people with disabilities can live independently and at the same time manage their lives as much as possible. My question to the Minister is whether he sees pgb residential initiatives as a valuable form of housing. Or does he only think they're an option if care in kind is inadequate? Because there is a decision on the pgb residential initiatives. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that we should avoid the possibility of these forms of housing not being or hardly being able to exist, because it should all be regulated by nature? Does he consider a self-parenting initiative to be a full-fledged alternative to care in kind? Mr. Chairman. Parents face different bottlenecks, including laws and regulations. Six months ago, the Minister said he was talking about reducing this regulatory burden, but it is already December. I ask the Minister if these talks have taken place. And if so, what has come out of it? The Minister would also talk to the VNG and Health Insurance Agency in the Netherlands to raise awareness of parental initiatives. I ask him whether any specific agreements have already been reached on this matter. In addition, small-scale housing initiatives currently have to comply with the quality rules that have been written for large institutions, which we have just discussed. Does the Minister see opportunities to provide a framework for small initiatives rather than the Quality Framework Nursing Care? Mr. Chairman. Parents are deeply concerned about the survival of parental initiatives. We have indeed received a lot of letters and alarming signals about this. In particular, parents who use WMO-funded housing are afraid of their survival. They are confronted with short indications, while, for example, people with strong autism cannot be able to do so from one day to the next without support. Can the Minister urge municipalities to give longer indications about residential initiatives or can he discuss them with the municipalities? And why is the rent for common spaces still not included in the fee list, when it has been agreed before? Mr. Chairman. The pgb is the means for many parents to maintain the direction over the form of residence. At the same time, the individual pgb is clinging to the collectivity of a parent initiative. In many cases, the budgets are combined in practice to a large amount from which care for the entire community can be paid. However, at the health care office and the Social Insurance Bank, the purchase of the care has to be handled individually by each budget holder. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to examine, in accordance with the recommendation of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, whether a collective form of pgb can provide a solution to these forms of housing. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to mention another important bottleneck: funding. We were just talking about it. Most advisors mention the funding of parental initiatives as the main bottleneck. Sometimes there is even a build-up of financial shortcomings, such as the depreciation of the rent allowance, the limitation of access to the Wajong, lower health indications and the abolition of the housing initiative bonus for some in the Wmo. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, everyone should be able to make use of small-scale housing initiatives when they exist and when people are able to organise them. Can the Minister identify the current financial obstacles to parental initiatives and provide solutions to them? As far as my group is concerned, we must not leave people who can find a good home in initiatives to live in. We must also give people the right to retain as much independence as possible, as laid down in the UN Convention for People with Disabilities. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about residential initiatives set up by parents for a child with disabilities, a small-scale housing with a homely atmosphere as an alternative to the parental home. The fact that this can be done is, of course, a very good one. It is about parents who in this way create a nice home for their child and keep the direction as much as possible. This initiative seems to fit in perfectly with the government's oh so beloved longer-stay policy. It is therefore hard to believe that this same policy threatens the survival of these initiatives. These forms of housing are also under financial pressure due to decentralisation. There are many financial uncertainties. The housing initiative bonus will be abolished. The municipalities reduce the pgb rates. Furthermore, the rents go up. The power bill's going up. The care premium is going up and the supplements are going up. These are all matters that are important and affect the financial resources of a group. These residents don't have a fat bank account. In most cases, the entire income of the residents is already related to the cost of housing and living, and parents are already making financial contributions. If expenditure increases and income decreases, the survival of this form of housing is uncertain. For five years, the pgb rates have not been indexed. Why is that, I ask the Minister. Last week, in his role as Deputy Prime Minister, this Minister announced that the windfalls of 1.5 billion this year are being used to fill gaps elsewhere in the national budget. That's impossible, isn't it? Disability hasn't been indexed for five years. The constant re-indications are also a source of irritation. We've talked about it so many times. We have made a point of it so many times: stop this hell for people who need lifelong and life-long care. In addition, there is always the uncertainty for the residents: do I get the same number of hours? Can I still live in this group? Can chronically ill and disabled people who have had an indication for 10 years or more be simply exempted from re-indications? We've been pleading for it for so long. Another reason why these forms of housing are getting in the way is the regulation that has been broken, with all kinds of new, extra, often nonsensical rules that the parent initiatives have had to deal with in recent years. These informal and homely forms of housing are apparently seen as a professional large health care institution. Isn't it crazy that parents are gonna hire managers for this, when they're supposed to hire caregivers? That's not supposed to happen, is it? Again the question to the Minister whether this is possible. Can't all the new or additional rules that the parent initiatives have faced over the past ten years be abolished again? All these things create uncertainty and unrest about the future of the pgb. We can also read this in the letter we received from the representatives of parents' initiatives. They want to stress that pgb is the best form of funding and not a second best solution. Moreover, they argue that buying care through bundled pgbs is precisely a prerequisite for being recognised as a residential initiative. I'd like a reaction to that. We also read that the choice of a pgb as a form of delivery of care is hampered. Does the Minister recognise this signal and can he confirm that the pgb is really a full alternative, now and in the future? Or does he prefer care in kind? Finally. Residents of these initiatives and their parents need peace and clarity. They have plenty of other things on their mind. I started my speech by saying that by setting up a housing initiative, parents would create a new, nice home for their child with a homely atmosphere, as an alternative to the parental home. Above all, let us not let such an initiative go down through austerity and regulatory drive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Parents who have children with severe disabilities often ask the following question. What's gonna happen to my kid when I'm gone? Who's gonna take care of him or her? Parents want, before they can't anymore, to have found a good place for their child. A group of parents consider that the classical institution in a forested area does not fit well with the care they have. This is an experience of many parents with children with autism, intellectual limitations or multiple limitations. Fortunately, we live in a country where parents are allowed to set up residential initiatives with small-scale care, but that is not easy. Setting up it is time-consuming and complex. Parents have to deal with a lot of things, such as applying for building permits, arranging finances and hiring care. Get on it, especially if you still have a busy job or are responsible for other children. No wonder that the SCP report shows that, although the appreciation for it is very high, this type of parental initiative is under strong pressure. For example, the SCP indicates that the requirements for eligibility for financial support are not always clear. Parents also often have to reinvent the wheel. In the SCP report, it is not only an analysis. It sets out recommendations for what had already been put in place in the government agreement, namely to encourage municipalities to make arrangements to provide adequate accommodation for small-scale and innovative housing initiatives. This fits perfectly with the CDA. For many municipalities, however, the housing initiative is an unknown phenomenon. Does the Minister recognize this, and how can we help these municipalities? We welcome the Minister's positive attitude to these recommendations and the actions he has undertaken and taken. The CDA supports its fight against unnecessary rules and administrative burdens. We hope that he will also take such an attitude in the area of residential initiatives. That does not alter the fact that we still have a number of questions. An important conclusion is that there is no national coverage network for support. The Minister indicated that he would discuss this with VNG and Health Insurance companies Netherlands. Has this conversation already taken place, and what has it led to? Does the Minister have a timetable in which that nationwide covering network could have been realized? In 2015, the legal arrangements surrounding the care system changed dramatically. Before that date, people with disabilities were mostly related to the AWBZ. As from 1 January 2015, they will receive support from four health care laws. Applications for care and support have become more complex. Parents experience insufficient knowledge and understanding in municipalities, health offices and the Social Insurance Bank, such as the regulation of residential initiatives, which these parties sometimes experience as unclear. How is this knowledge deficit reached by municipalities and health offices, so that searching parents are better supported? Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister have a view on whether municipalities offer adequate accommodation or building land for small-scale housing initiatives? If not, what can the Minister do to allow municipalities to do so? And have concrete agreements been made that every municipality, for example from January 1st 2019, will refer parents to Per Balance or To-Choice with questions? The same directional function is played by existing housing initiatives. More and more parents involved in housing initiatives under the WMO regime are concerned about the financial continuity of an initiative. The SCP report reports that municipalities are increasingly issuing shorter but also lower indications. There are also municipalities that have abolished the housing initiative bonus. How can the Minister even better support these parents? Finally, residential initiatives are a valuable addition. However, the regular care institution can also learn a bit from these initiatives, especially in the field of its own direction. Does the Minister have a role to play in getting existing care institutions to learn from the parental initiatives? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mr Hijink has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u43	I would like to hear from the CDA what they think about the fact that in some cases, fortunately, it does not happen everywhere, parent initiatives are taken over and developed into a franchise concept, making it a commercial product.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u44	I think that a very valuable point of these initiatives is their own direction. I am not going to say that I reject it by definition, but at the moment when the parents' own direction goes away and it is only going to be a sort of product, I think the essence of the housing initiative will be removed. I'm always looking for something, and some people do it too. How to carry these initiatives forward and how to learn from them. So I wouldn't be against that in itself. But I think that by producing and marketing it, you take away the essence of the direction that parents have in such a housing initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u45	I very much agree. For example, the Thomas Houses are a fantastic initiative. I think a lot of clients, parents and children, are very happy about that. But things aren't going well everywhere. It has also happened that the concept has been taken over and is now being commercially exploited. Does Mr Slootweg not think that we should do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u46	I believe that we have discussed this before and that there are still many things to be done about it. I have a bit of a taste of the question of whether we should not ban all of this right away. If it isn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u47	Then Mr Hijink can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u48	But I'm not saying "forbidden"? I didn't mention that word at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u49	Okay, no, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u50	You say it yourself, and I totally agree with that. If such a beautiful concept as the Thomas Houses should be spread more widely and if more people could make use of it, I would very much welcome it, of course, provided it goes well everywhere. I don't want it to be a franchise construction, so it's going to be made money by people who are farther away from care. That's what I'm hoping for from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u51	That is clear, and I say this in turn, because I think that we really need to look at what the ground is. I do not want to remove innovability, but when it becomes a commercial product, where only profit is at the centre, I think Mr Hijink knows a little about what the CDA thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. Then I will go to Mrs Hermans, as the last speaker, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Happy Home in Eemnes, a house where sixteen young people with learning difficulties live. Just as we all wanted to go to rooms at some point, these sixteen young people wanted to live on their own and their parents were looking for a safe place where their children could live if care in the future became too heavy for them, and could lead an independent life, even though these young people needed care and support. This can also be done by providing care and support to organise their lives instead of their lives for that care and support, with a pgb in a house set up by a group of parents themselves. In that house, in their Happy Home, they each have their own apartment and share with their eights a living room and a kitchen. The VVD Group believes that this can be done, that this type of parental initiative is possible. That parents together create the opportunity for their children to live independently, with the protection and security they need to live that independent life. The reason for parents to set up such an initiative is different. I would like to highlight one which has been mentioned before in this debate. That's the space and control parents are looking for. Control of care and support, about what that care and support should be, when and how it is used in their children's lives, so that they can organise that life in their own way and control it themselves. That is control over the care that parents actually do not experience or do not experience sufficiently in a regular institution. Mr. Chairman. I'll say it again. Parental initiatives are a great asset, but not everyone has the right to launch such an initiative. Because it's a long-term process and you need to be able and willing to put a lot of time, attention and energy into it. But controlling the care and support your son or daughter needs should be logical everywhere, whether you live in a parent initiative or I call it a regular care institution. The Minister writes about this in his response to the SCP report that he and the parties are looking for ways to renew care in health care institutions, care in kind, with the aim of achieving tailor-made arrangements. A very nice word, but what exactly is it? And what's the status of these conversations? Directed and controlled. The VVD believes that personal funding here can also be a means or an instrument, for example. A pilot for that started about two years ago in Rotterdam. Nota bene in Rotterdam, I should like to say. My question to the Minister is that after two years he must be able to say something about the results of that pilot, so I would like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The administrative burden, but especially every year a lot of uncertainty about the following year, is experienced by parents whose son or daughter receives care from the Youth Act or the Wmo and who have to apply for a new indication year after year. It has already been appointed by a number of colleagues. We have also drawn attention to it a number of times in recent debates, and I will continue to do so, because if there is something we can do now to make the lives of these children and their parents a little easier, then it is by doing something about these short-term indications. So I ask the Minister again: what is the state of his talks with the UNG on this? Finally. In Happy Home I was impressed by how much technology supports the residents and supervisors, gives residents an even more independent feeling and allows supervisors to use their precious time well. That is why the question is: what is the situation with regard to the development of the innovation impulse for disability care? There can already be a lot, but still too few, of smart care to reach all those people in disability care who can benefit so much, in the regular care institutions and also in those parental initiatives. Let's work on that together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u55	We will continue the debate on the report of the SCP. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the initiative to request this debate. Thank you also for the many questions that have been asked about, or actually about, the report Just like at home of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. It's about home initiatives set up by parents. I also think that, in my response, I am focusing in particular on residential initiatives because, where things are getting wider and it is becoming more of a pgb-related discussion, we are going to have a lot of moments to talk about the pgb in the next few days. We can also raise these questions at that time. So I'm gonna focus on the housing initiatives. I am of course very grateful to the researchers for the report. It is very well described how the parental initiatives are of added value for these parents. These are indeed often, but not alone, pgb-funded. We have just had a nice substantive debate on its added value. I try to avoid any English term, of course. The pgb is really a lifeguard for a lot of parents, I have often said. Certainly the pgb-living initiatives are a good and nice expression of this: not a second alternative: that is a translation of second best.... but simply as the most beautiful form of funding for that type of care. But that is true, so I go with Mr Hijink, for those parents who can. Because for those parents who cannot do that, who are unable to do so, who are actually very vulnerable when they position themselves in the role of employer, I think it is important that we are much more precise in awarding the pgb. That is not a discussion about the question: do you like it better or do you like it better, but it is a discussion about using that beautiful instrument for those people for whom it is also a very suitable instrument. Others can be provided with a very good "care in kind" alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u57	However, I would like to say something about that. It seems perfectly logical what the Minister says: for those parents who can. In my opinion, the report shows that the biggest challenge is that many parents want it, but they cannot, for example, do so as a result of regulatory pressure, as a result of discouragement policy. I believe that today's debate should be about this: how can we ensure that parents who want to do so can do so as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u58	I couldn't agree more. When it comes to better parental support, we really still have a world to win: removing uncertainties, better customer support. We've all worked on that; I'll get back to you in a minute. But it seemed to be about the question: are you in residential initiatives for care in kind, or are you for the pgb; what team are you on? But I don't think it is and the discussion isn't so black and white. It is precisely this: that beautiful tool of the pgb is only a wonderful instrument if you give it to those people who are capable of it, who can really make something beautiful out of it and for whom it is actually the most appropriate form of financing. That is why we must make every effort not only to keep that pgb instrument alive but also to maintain it in such a way that it is also suitable for those people for whom it is also the most adequate instrument. This means, on the other hand, that we must ensure that care in kind also becomes a better alternative. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u59	I hear what the Minister says, but it is important to look very closely at how we formulate things. Care in kind, of course. It is also important for people who miss their own direction that care in kind should comply; of course. But I can also imagine that, when it comes to creating a parent initiative, you want to have a grip on it as a parent. It is also an extension of your living room, so to speak, so that one can find the security. I think it is really very important that this debate is not about whether or not parents are suitable, but that we should look at how, as a government, looking at all these thresholds and barriers, we can support, support and help parents to make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u60	Sure, I'm that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u62	I very much agree with that. We are going to talk about the pgb at different times in the coming period and we are also going to talk about pgb-funded housing initiatives at different times. I would like to mention this very briefly, not exhaustively, but I would like to say in particular that, when I hear you like this, I think that we will have to resume the discussion about everything you want the cabinet to do with municipalities and with Per Balance at some point in a debate on residential initiatives. We are talking about residential initiatives at all kinds of other times, but never integral, as is the case now. I would therefore like to propose the following now. We're coming up with a pgb agenda next week, maybe even this week. There will be a number of things about residential initiatives, so we will talk about residential initiatives again in the next pgb debate, but I think it would be a good idea to send a new letter to the Chamber separately about residential initiatives. It'll be like this by the summer, I guess. It will show all the actions under way and the state of them, so that you can have the debate on them again if you like. I will mention a number of things. In the very short term, perhaps this week and otherwise next week, the pgb agenda that has been announced will come in the direction of your Chamber. We have expanded with municipalities, with Per Recht and with a lot of others looked at what is needed in relation to the pgb. One of the topics is collective living facilities, pgb-funded living facilities. The PGB agenda announces various actions in the area of older people's initiatives, such as improving information for potential budget holders, the provision of budget holders and representatives, and a number of actions in the area of quality and legality. We shall be discussing this in detail, including the implication of pgb bundling. It will be further developed. In that letter I will also say when we come up with a more comprehensive vision of pgb-funded housing initiatives, in which I can also give the state of play of all those ongoing actions. A second letter you received not so long ago concerns the approach to strengthening customer support. Among other things, it's about improved customer support. That is, I think, very much in the direction of the point that Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Slootweg stressed in order to focus a specific form of customer support on parents who intend to launch a housing initiative. Mr Slootweg asked what the timetable of this is. I'm talking to Per Recht, VNG and ZN. We are trying to find out as concretely as possible what type of support these parents need. In addition, as part of the program Langer At home we have the agenda Living and Care. That is the third line of action in the Langer Home programme. In it we agreed to investigate the obstacles faced by young people with disabilities in finding a suitable home. In fact, the Langer Home programme is mainly about the elderly, but I believe it was Mrs Bergkamp who said that some of the instruments we use in this context are also very suitable for people with disabilities. This is also the agreement we made: to start a study in early 2019 on the obstacles faced by young people with disabilities to find a suitable home or form of housing. It is not just about residential initiatives, but of course it does touch on them. In addition, it is agreed to investigate the local task of living and caring with a large group of municipalities, the G40. We also agreed that it should not only be about living for the elderly, but also about living for people with disabilities. The bottleneck mentioned by Mr Slootweg is also actually able to find sufficient ground? It could be highlighted in this context. I do not have a current view of this at the moment. With organisations of clients and professionals in disability care, I am currently exploring where and how access to care and support for people with a lifelong and life-wide disability can be further strengthened. For example, the question of short indications is analysed and resolved. It can't be that as a person with a lifelong disability you have to prove over and over again that some of you have rightly said that you are and will remain dependent on support from that limitation. This means that we need to look carefully at how we can remove that uncertainty. I would like to mention all of this in order to emphasise that I believe the theme of the housing initiatives is being addressed in many places. At the same time, I realize that it can be quite complicated for your Chamber to keep a grip on the whole. That is why I also propose that by the summer of next year you send a more comprehensive vision of pgb-funded housing to the Chamber. Let me make a general remark before I go to the cubes. I would stress that we are dealing with a partly decentralised system. We got the Wlz on one side and the Wmo on the other. This has an impact on the analysis of the issues involved, but also on the ability to give best support to parents and on the possibilities for the Court to take decisions on them and to enforce them effectively. So there is a different steering paradigm. That is no excuse to leave it at that, but I would like to mention that added complexity here, because it simply plays a role. This week we had a debate on how to steer a decentralised system from here. This is also a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u63	And now to the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u64	The cubes, yes. I want to start with the financial uncertainty. This was an important point, along with everything that has to do with the length and duration of the indication and the allocation of tailor-made facilities. The second block is about what we can do in the equipment of parents. In the third block I come to all the other questions that did not concern these two themes. You could put the graceful label "varia" on that. First, financial security. This plays on two elements. Firstly, the length of the duration of the award or of the indication. If a limitation is actually permanent, it should not be the case that every year you have to prove that you have that limitation. That's what we've said to each other here before. The second element is the lack of clarity as to what you can or can not finance from the Wlz housing scheme, which indeed does not exist under the Wmo. This is related to the question: is there sufficient budgets to actually finance a housing initiative? I'm gonna start with that conversation about these short-term indications or, in fact, awards. In fact, they are not indicative. Why is there so often a short-term allocation chosen? That signal has already reached us at a number of times, especially through Each (in), but also through Per Balance. These bottlenecks are also reflected in the conversation with municipalities that we have been having for some time, but it is quite difficult to choose a "one size fits all" approach with municipalities. It is also very different how it is handled within municipalities. There are municipalities that do choose those long-term indications. With municipalities, care professionals and stakeholders, I have started a process to investigate and address these issues. The aim is to improve access to care for these people. We are doing this in the context of the review of the Reform Long-term Care. We've just had the detailed evaluation by the SCP. The Ombudsman also responded; access to care is also a concern for the Ombudsman. What we have said is: we are going to analyse this point more precisely, because "one size fits all" answers can't really be. The starting point as you have, and as I have it, is actually always shared by municipalities, but apparently these bottlenecks still exist. So we will have to go to some sort of guidance, some sort of agreement on how to deal with this in practice, which should, for example, include initiators of this type of housing initiative. I don't have those appointments yet. We're just still talking about that. I suggest that I continue this discussion and return to what might be the real result in the letter I have just announced by the summer. Then there is the other problem, that of adequate tariffs. I have to explain something about this first. A number of points have been raised. Firstly, the housing initiative bonus has been mentioned. That housing initiative bonus existed under the AWBZ and exists under the Wlz. There is the debate: what can be done and what should not be paid for? In the Chamber too, as I understand it, it has been more of a dispute whether or not you can finance something of a common space, for example. That's the issue. I understand that there are still uncertainties about this: what should not be paid out? That is why I want to achieve a more unambiguous financing of this type of small-scale housing initiatives within the Wlz. In the letter on pgb coming up, I also announce an investigation on that point. This should lead to a result by the end of 2019. Then there's a question: but what about the Wmo? Why is this no longer possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u65	I actually want the Minister to finish the issue of financial uncertainty first. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u66	Then why doesn't the housing bonus exist under the Wmo? This has to do with the fact that within the Wlz what can be paid from the pgb is very tightly organized. Because you can only pay care from the Wlz's pgb. The pgb in the Wmo offers more space, because that is a tailor-made facility. So, for example, ICT or a common space within the Wlz-pgb is more difficult to shape. That is why there is a living-in allowance. Within the pgb it is assumed that it is just part of the customisation provision, and therefore a housing initiative bonus is not required there. That was the result of the dispute as I understand it took place in the Chamber. This, of course, then presupposes that there are adequate rates, because the rates must then be adequate. I have heard several signals from your Chamber but also from Per Recht that the experience is that tariffs are being squeezed. I can't judge that right now. I really think we need to get a more precise picture of that. This means that we are also carrying out a study with the municipalities on whether these tariffs are adequate. I believe that we should have discussions with municipalities on an objective basis. These two points, these two handles put together, do not now but in the future offer, I think, more control over that financial security. One is therefore a longer-term grant of customisation; this is particularly true in the WMO, because Wlz indications are lifelong. The other is adequate rates. Those are the two tools to provide that financial security to parent initiatives. I think that has given me the important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u67	The minister says he's gonna start an investigation into the tariffs. I'll come back to the common room, too. The Minister suggests that there is a lack of clarity as to whether or not it should be included in the fee list. I understand that the meeting was made. The common area may be covered by the pgb, so it should be included in the fee list. That's not gonna happen. We can now have a whole discussion again, but I think we should just go ahead and make sure that this is actually included on the reimbursement list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u68	Then it's about the healthcare infrastructure. You have the care yourself, and that's what the pgb is for. The housing initiative bonus is for everything necessary to provide that care. In a collectively funded form of housing, for example, this is the common space. I mentioned it as an example. I understand there's uncertainty about that surcharge. What are you gonna do now and what aren't? I also understand that there are signs that there are differences between healthcare agencies in what is or is not awarded. These differences are not easy to explain. In the run-up to the pgb agenda, we have talked very intensively with each other and yet we have not managed to achieve the precision that is actually needed. For this reason, I say that we must continue to pursue this path. We need to examine what uncertainty there is and how we can provide a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u69	Finally, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u70	Yeah, that uncertainty. In my view, we have agreed that the common area should be included in the reimbursement list. I'd hate to be trained by health care agencies. I'm asking the Minister to focus on that. Take a closer look at what agreements have been made on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u71	That's not quite my picture, but I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u72	I would like to return to the multiannual indication or the multiannual allocations as described by the Minister. If I understand correctly, according to the Minister, this falls within the scope of access to care. The Minister now talks with parties about this again and wants to investigate where the thresholds and the bumps are. That I do not find a satisfactory answer to the question I have put on this subject. A number of my colleagues have also asked for this. I think we started this in a general discussion in May. Back then, we were talking about obstacles. If we now have to investigate this again, this problem will continue to be postponed for months and months. Let's go fix it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u73	This question is justified. This point is being discussed at various times here in the Chamber, and this signal also comes to us at different times. Each (in) indicates this, for example. In particular, in the context of the Wmo, the granting of a tailor-made facility is short-term. It doesn't actually do justice to people who have a lifelong disability. There are two comments to make. If you want to do that from here, you have to deal with the local authorities being involved. Municipalities deal with that very differently. I think that this is the problem rather than that all the municipalities would not do it. In addition, it is logical that you review from time to time what support is needed. Nor should we want to go to a 20-year indication in the municipal domain. I didn't mean to say I'm going to investigate the signals. There's a lot of signals. I meant to say that we need to look at the type of agreement that should lead to the most appropriate response, given the comments I have just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u74	It concerns the Wmo and the Youth Act. I agree with you that it is not wrong at all to check at regular intervals whether the support and care provided in the award is still appropriate to the concern of the person in question. We have already exchanged all the observations you have made in the debate in May and in the last budget debate. That's my question. Why do we have to investigate again? Can we not, given the different ways in which municipalities deal with it, do we know that we are now focusing on that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u75	That's exactly what I'm gonna do. I'm not so much going to investigate what it's like in the field. Because we know that. We know those signals. It is, of course, not the first discussion we have as a department on this issue with interest groups and with municipalities. The point is that at the moment we simply have not been able to reach an adequate agreement to find a good answer, given the variety in which this type of signal occurs, given the decentralized context and also given the need to do so, you also recognise that it is necessary to look once in a while to see what support is still needed. So I share with you that it is unsatisfactory that we do not yet have that answer, but that is how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u76	I would like to support Mrs Hermans. I understand it's a decentralised responsibility, but I have to think about the five-minute registration. We also agreed on this every year as a Chamber; only it was not abolished. When you're 25 and you're diagnosed with autism, you'll have it when you're 26 and 27. I understand that every year or every few years they look at support and guidance. That could vary. But to tell you each time what disorder you have or what limitation you have, it's just painful. I think it is important for the Minister to send this message on behalf of the whole Chamber: we simply do not want to see questions like that again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u77	Clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u78	I wish it was true that the world was so makeable, but of course it isn't. We have to be honest about that. Otherwise, it would have been solved by now. This point has brought you to my attention several times. It has been brought to my attention in many letters and conversations by interest groups. It comes back to the HLZ evaluation, so it's not an unknown point. I would just like to outline that, even though I acknowledge that this is an issue, an important issue, I do not yet have the answer that would be the best. What does that mean? Do we have to change the law? Or should we make an administrative deal with each other? Or should we provide support? Should we spread knowledge? Is that all the answer? Anything is possible, but I would like an adequate response to these identified bottlenecks. I understand that is not satisfactory for the time being. I agree, but I don't have a different answer than this at the moment. I'm gonna get to work on that, not to find out if they're true, because they're true, but to see what we can do about it. I'm working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u79	Okay, continue. Oh, Mrs. Ellemeet. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u80	Okay, here's the thing. I understand it's complicated. At the same time, I hear the Minister say that direction must be taken. As far as I'm concerned, the Minister could work towards directives, so you make agreements with each other. I can also imagine that it would help the Minister if we gave him Chamberwide: we wanted to come up with guidelines on the length of the indications. Can I interpret it like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yes, but it depends on what status you then assign to the word "directives." We didn't decentralize our conversation last Tuesday night for nothing. We have said: actually, you need to see close to home what the need for support is, what someone needs, given the social context in which he operates. If you come up with the idea of including the word 'directives' in a motion in the second term, then I think we will come into a semantic discussion about what the legal status of these directives is. What right can we derive from that word 'directives' when it comes to a dispute as to the duration of the indication? I'm a little reluctant about that. This is exactly the search I have myself. At the same time, you want to find a direction with each other: that is how we deal with it when there is a limitation that really does not disappear from one year to the next under the Christmas tree. So how do you deal with that in assigning a longer-year-old tailor-made journey? We're looking for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u82	That's what you said. Please continue. I think you'd come to the equipment of parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u83	Yeah, and I have one more question under the block of finances. I have talked about the housing allowance and what is or is not covered by it, I have talked about the longer-term indication and I have talked about the adequacy of the rates. Those are three pathways that are going side by side right now. For a moment, I would like to leave the question of finance for all times that we are discussing the adequacy of finances in the social domain. A further question has been asked by Mr Hijink about the profitability of franchise constructions. I would actually like to look at that along the line of content. Do these pgb-funded housing initiatives actually provide an answer to the question of parents, namely whether within that type of initiative it is possible to have more direction? Is that care more personal there? Is it more appropriate to what parents would like? The form must be supportive. So I'm not necessarily franchised forms. I didn't hear you say that either. We are going to have the whole discussion about profit in healthcare very lively in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u84	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u85	But if the pgb as a form of funding is actually used to build an alternative care-in-natura construction, then I'm less enthusiastic about it. Is it completely impossible to make? Well, not now, because then you'd have to take measures that even hit pgb-initiators. But I am hesitant about that if it means that you are setting up an alternative care-in-natura organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u87	Furthermore, the IGJ naturally supervises the quality. I think I have had the questions that are more about financial security or uncertainty. Then I'll go to parents' equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mrs. Agema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u89	I got another shock!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u90	Really? That's weird. So was last week. Something's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u91	Would it be my shoes or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u92	There's no way I'm behind this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u93	Apparently, I'm not quite fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u94	Otherwise, use the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u95	I was just going to the bathroom for a second. Perhaps then the Minister answered my question about the one and a half billion-and-a-half-a-half windfall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u96	It's in my third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u97	Okay. That's coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u98	Parental equipment. Where financial uncertainty is an obstacle, the provision of parents can also be an obstacle. As many of you have said, starting a parent initiative is not easy. It requires at least a lot of perseverance, but also a lot of creativity and a lot of knowledge of legislation and regulation. We will have to support parents better in that regard. In the letter on customer support, I announced that we are talking to Per Recht to see if there is any form of customer support that is specifically aimed at this. Is that doable? There is a great deal of knowledge and experience among initiators who have already done so. So there is a form of support that helps initiators in a supportive sense and sometimes also in the sense of: "Don't go there." Don't go on that path, because we've been there before. That path won't help you. That takes far too much energy and ultimately doesn't bring what you want." So good support, good front equipment is needed in the form of client support and good disclosure of the information developed by Per Balance. We've already done that through the health offices. We can do much better through the municipalities. That's a second way. In addition, the question of Mrs... I don't know who anymore. Someone had a compelling quote from a parent who thinks, "Yes, now my initiative is underway. But what if I'm gone later? What should happen if I can't pay attention to whether the initiative is actually going well?" Over the past few months, I've spoken to parents several times who told me this story. They're actually most concerned about this. This is also reflected in the Full Life Programme. I'd like to see what forms there are. All kinds of forms of foundation have been designed to answer the continuous question properly and on time. Sometimes an appointment is made with a care-in-natura institution, sometimes a support foundation is set up. There are several variants of how to deal with the continuity of an individual housing initiative. I am together with a number of initiators who have already developed this further to see what type of knowledge we can develop in this respect and then offer support to parent initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u99	Have you completed this topic?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u100	I don't know if I've emphasised that enough, but we're also working on better front-end support and assessment in the field of skills anyway. Is anyone capable of a pgb? That comes back to the pgb letter. This includes special skills for starting an older person's initiative, testing skills and providing support, in that combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u101	Then this issue on parental equipment is also completed. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u102	We have the right question as to where to go for this knowledge. Do I understand correctly that Per Balance is the point where people have to report? Or isn't that more widespread?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u103	I tend to think Per Balance is the most logical point to do that. Only all the instruments developed by Per Balance do not always immediately reach those applying for a pgb. My picture is that what Per Recht has developed in support, when applying for a pgb is used fairly well through the health offices, but much less in the direction of municipalities. So we also have in spreading there at the front of clarity about where you can find your information to do some work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u105	Then I understand. Between Per Balance and health insurance companies, it's easier. But with the municipal regulations, that's a lot more difficult. Could MEE mean anything in that? It is nice that there is one point for parents to go to. If that gets very scattered, it's going to be a huge search.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u106	That's right. So I do think that Per Balance should be the central point. But then, in all those places where people come into contact with the idea of starting a housing initiative, you should be reminded of the available support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u107	Fine if Per Balance informs possible initiators, but it's not only about the pgb, it's also about finding a suitable location and home. That often takes a lot of effort. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to take the experience of the old initiatives into account. I had also asked if the right to challenge could play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u108	Taking those experiences with you? Sure. The right to challenge, or the right to challenge? Actually, the pgb existed before we spoke in those terms about citizens' initiatives, parent initiatives. The pgb is perhaps avant la lettre.. French may be, yet a form of that in England recorded right to challenge. It actually existed a long time ago. I think that is the most advanced form of legislation that parents are entitled to when it comes to regulating their support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u109	That does mean that municipalities have to see it that way. If there is an initiative, parents should be helped to find a suitable location and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u110	Yeah, that's true. At the same time, it is difficult to enforce. You are aware of the complexity of the spatial planning policy of municipalities. Sometimes there's just very little place...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u111	Now the questions that have not yet been answered!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u112	...in a city. Then the other questions. D66, GroenLinks and the PVV ask if I am prepared to reduce the regulatory pressure. Yes. The agenda pgb that you will receive in the short term also contains the way in which I will work on it. I do this, for example, by holding pgb scraping sessions, just like we do in all other sectors, but specifically focused on the pgb. By the way, the pgb 2.0 system, which we talked about yesterday, fortunately means a huge reduction in administrative burdens. Then the Quality Framework Nursing Care, which was mentioned by D66 and GroenLinks. For the time being, this quality framework is indeed also applicable to pgb-funded housing initiatives. It has also been said in the quality framework that this quality framework should actually be adapted to smaller initiatives, because it is actually not sufficiently manageable, especially when it comes to providing different indicators. That is not easy for a small initiative. That's why we're doing that. We look, among other things, in consultation with Per Recht, what alternative or more suitable quality framework we can think of for nursing care. So this is not so much about standards, but in particular about the question of the delivery of quality data. He can do better than that. Then the investments of pgb in stones. We've just talked about that a little bit. Pgb is meant for care and not for stones. I think that was a question from the SP and GroenLinks. So the exception is in the housing bonus. It is intended to finance housing or care infrastructure, and can therefore also be used for the rental of common areas. But we just talked about that. In relation to the CDA, I would like to say a few words about the issue of the housing contribution. How do municipalities support these parental initiatives? The housing initiative bonus is there precisely because the pgb under the Wlz can really only be taken care of. This means that municipalities have more space. They have the space for a tailor-made facility. What's included is exactly what it takes to do that. So under the Wmo there is no need for a separate housing bonus, I think. What is needed there is an adequate rate. That is precisely the route we use with the municipalities. What does the Minister think of a collective pgb? That was kind of the suggestion the SCP makes in his research. To be honest, I hesitate to do so, because a pgb is meant to be able to make individual customization possible. By making it possible to live alongside each other with different pgbs, you are actually working to achieve that individual customization in a better way. But then when I collect the funding again, it's actually called almost care in kind. So, frankly, I am hesitant about a form of collective pgb. I do not really know what to imagine as another form of funding, and what that adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u113	I've just added the definitions. When are you talking about pgb and when are you talking about care in kind? In the case of care in kind, the municipality, the health care office or the health care insurer shall contract the healthcare providers. That is, of course, the essential difference. These are residential initiatives with ten to fifteen people, where the idea is to direct yourself and to have the way in which you organise care and living. But in practice, of course, such an initiative with ten residents is organised jointly. Now that leads to a lot of additional administrative burden, because you have to answer to the SVB individually again. I am asking the Minister to investigate this, because there really is a difference between care in kind and pgb. In the latter case, the budget holders contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u114	Fair enough. I see that difference. But then it remains true that the pgb is also meant to be able to meet any customization. Let me mention another hesitation. If things are sometimes difficult with residential initiatives, it is because someone has boarded with a pgb and then stops pgb, chooses someone for another form of housing or gets into a fight between themselves; that can also occur. Imagine if that would have to be with a collective form of pgb funding; that means that everyone would have to go to another pgb when there is a change in the composition of such a housing group. I think we're all making this a little more complicated and I wonder if that's really a solution. It is at most a solution on the administrative side; I can see that, but the question is whether you will then bring in more vulnerabilities and more disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u115	Finally, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u116	The Minister put it quite correctly: 'I wonder'. Yes, I ask myself the same question, because I think there are advantages and disadvantages. I think we should take these parents' signals seriously. They say it's a lot of extra work for them now: they do that, grab him, with his tens and they still have to answer individually again, while they organize it as a group. That's the whole idea of a housing initiative: that you do it with multiple people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u117	As part of the regulatory burden, I am willing to look at this, but I do not see why we are ever going to change the law at this point and introduce a new form of funding into our already state-of-the-art care landscape. So I will look at it from the point of view of administrative burdens in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u118	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u119	Then smart disability care. In particular, Mrs Hermans called for attention to be paid to all the possibilities that new techniques can offer in strengthening or supporting residential initiatives. That's absolutely true. In fact, she herself put forward the solution to the budget debate when the Hermans and Bergkamp amendments were adopted. This doubled the budget available for this type of innovation in order to stimulate innovation. Housing initiatives can also benefit from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u120	I know that I have put forward a solution to this problem with Mrs Bergkamp, but my question was precisely what is the situation with regard to the implementation of this regulation. This would be subject to a number of conditions, including a wider sharing of the knowledge gained from initiatives within disability care. So that was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u121	The innovation impulse that we are shaping with this is currently being worked out with interested parties, but I hear in this question: before it goes to the printer, let me see if we in the Chamber can still see if it is what we were aiming for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u122	Is that what you mean, Mrs Hermans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u123	That's actually what I mean, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u124	It is very easy to provide for this. So that's just what we're gonna do. It'll be after Christmas, but I don't think you'll mind. No, you don't mind. What are the results of the pilot personal funding? I informed you in July about a stand-by, an interim evaluation. It was a little early; it was about the first year. In spring 2019 you will receive a final evaluation of the total pilot in 2017 and 2018. The mid-term review concluded that the cooperation between the parties is being found, but that it is still early and requires an additional effort, that we will continue to support it and that we will make additional resources available in 2019, for example in order to continue the project management in both regions in a good way, because the pilot runs in 2017 and 2018. In this way, the initiatives that have now been developed can also continue. But I think we should just have the talk in the spring on the basis of the evaluation. I look at Mrs Hermans and she looks back, as if this was not the answer to her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u125	Don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u126	I'm just moving forward, Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Agema's question about under-exhaustment, tariffs and how they can not be indexed. Actually, I don't recognize it that way, because the rates are just indexed. They are indexed under the Wlz. Within the Wmo, the municipalities themselves, of course, deal with the indexation arrangements, but there too, indexing takes place. I have heard Mrs Agema speak a number of times about under-exhaustment. We have had this debate once or twice, in my opinion already about three times. Under-exhaustment, for example on the legal framework of the Zvw, which is not spent in such a way that the Budgetary Framework Care, i.e. the expenditure ceiling in the care sector, is actually set, is considered to be an EMU-relevant under-exhaustment. That is why it is also reported in the autumn note. Only money intended for care can really go to care alone. So if the suggestion is raised that you can also buy F-35s of money collected through the premium but not then spent through the health insurance companies on care, then of course that is not the case. It only provides framework-relevant space, and that is why it is always reported to the Chamber in the autumn note, and is reported to the Chamber in the financial reporting at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u127	This suggestion is made by the Minister himself, for example in the press conference following last week's Council of Ministers. In that he said himself that the windfalls will be used as a buffer for, for example, Brexit setbacks and what is more. So it's his own words. Then the missed indexation over the years 2014-2019. I didn't get that from the Ministry's own papers. I got that from the letter we received in connection with this debate from Naar-Keuze, KansPlus, RPSW, Stichting De Grasboom and WoondroomZorg. Maybe the Minister can clear this up. So I didn't get it out of his pieces, but it seems like a serious organization that is sending this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u128	I can't place that. In fact, the rates for the Wlz pgb are indexed annually. In the municipal domain, customisation applies, but the rate should be sufficient for appropriate support at any time. Also within the municipal domain, of course, just indexing takes place. So I can't set that signal. But in any case, we are going into the process with municipalities about whether there is adequate funding at all, because we have several signals that it is pinching there and that it is getting tighter. That too is the signal. So we're going into that trajectory anyway, so maybe we can take the question into account if, for example, the lack of indexing for pgb-holders would be a problem. This may be the case in a number of municipalities. I can't place that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u129	I'd like that cleared up anyway. It seems to me that the organizations that sent this letter do not write nonsense and simply experience it. In the context of all these windfalls, it would seem very wrong not to index pgb rates while each time we keep so much money on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u130	Let me get this straight. There is, however, indexing at pgb rates in the healthcare sector. All Wlz rates are simply indexed annually. For example, the rates for nursing home care are also added a plus because of the quality framework, which the residential initiatives have to meet. It is therefore not true that there is no indexing. There's some indexing. In the Wmo it is of course the municipality itself that determines the indexing policy. I know that a lot of municipalities there simply apply the same indexation. Apparently, because otherwise they would not have written it down, it is not so in a number of cases. But at all events, the rates in the WMO must always be sufficient for adequate support. We have received a number of signals about this at all. That is why we will start the conversation with municipalities and investigate it. This signal could just be involved. I can be very clear about underutilization. Yes, I know very well what I said at the press conference. I mentioned a whole line of under-utilisations there. Sometimes it is true that if you have not done budget-funded expenditure, you can use that money differently. You can build buffers with that and so on. This does not apply to expenditure in the Zvw domain in the Budgetary Framework Care or under the expenditure ceiling care. It will provide room under the expenditure ceiling, but at some point that will translate into lower premiums. So it's not like you can spend under-utilisation in the Health Insurance Act on other things than care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u131	If we add this 1.5 billion to the 8.1 billion, you'll come up with 9.6 billion since 2013 of major windfalls on VWS. Well, I haven't seen the care premium go down with a nickel yet, so I think that's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u132	That's a really weird math.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u133	We're not gonna have a discussion about the care premium. The question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u134	That's such a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u135	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u136	My question is whether the Minister can give us some clarity. He can say he's going to look at it, but can he clarify the signal from these parent initiatives, which indicate that they haven't been indexed for five years? Can he clear up that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u137	I think I have clarified this: in the Wlz, prices are simply indexed annually. Period. Two. Under the Wmo, most municipalities do the same. In any case, they have adequate and adequate funding to ensure. That doesn't mean I can't put this signal on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u138	Maybe that letter can be shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u139	However, I can place the signal in the sense that there are even concerns about whether the tariffs are adequate. That's what we're going through with municipalities to do that research.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u141	It is the letter: input for plenary debate 13 December 2018 by Naar-Keuze, KansPlus, RPSW, foundation De Grasboom and WoondroomZorg. Apparently, the minister says they're putting up a dick story here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u142	No, with all due respect, I think we need to do more justice to this. I am trying to give a good answer to the question as you put it. I say that the rates in the Wlz are always indexed. Because that's what we do ourselves. When it comes to municipal tariffs, municipalities often do. If we do not do so, it is of course a municipal decision taken in itself, although municipalities have to comply with appropriate rates at all times. So I say, I don't recognize this signal, but I'm taking the signal with me...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u143	And maybe the letter, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u144	...the trajectory we're going through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u145	It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u146	... in the route we go through with municipalities about appropriate rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u147	Please continue. I think you should go round up. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u148	Yeah, I guess so. I will check, otherwise I will get all kinds of interruptions in which they say: my question has not been answered. I believe that I have answered the questions as well as possible. Yes, Chairman, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u149	Unless I missed it... I had asked the Minister to look at the income position of people living in a parent initiative. We read and hear very often that the money you get when you live in such an initiative is all about living and caring. Even if you get a donation from your parents, for example, you lose that money again, because you lose your rent or care allowance. My question is whether the Minister agrees, because that is not really all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u150	We need to avoid any change in tax legislation under the banner of this treatment. I don't recognize the generalizing image that there would always be income vulnerabilities. Of course, that's not entirely true. A lot of residential initiatives have been launched by people who are in a good income position. Let me put it this way. At the same time, I think: when it comes to people who rely on municipal support, the municipality has all kinds of tools to apply customization. We really did put that in the municipality, because it must then come to customization in the individual support of people. What we have to do here is to ensure that the pgb is an adequate means of organising care. We have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u151	Yes, but the government is also about how people's assets are treated. Here's what's up. At a time when vulnerable young people have to pay their entire benefit to care and housing, they are not treated equally to other young people in our society. I think that's a problem. Because even if you live in such an institution, you have to have money to buy someone a present or go somewhere for once. There's a lot of money out there right now. I think the Minister should look into how we can help that group further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u152	Let us focus on this because otherwise we are going to shape entire income policy over the edge of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u153	For correction. This is just one of the recommendations in the report. That's why it belongs here today. So it's not so crazy that I'm bringing it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u154	Look at their own contribution. You are familiar with the government's policy on the own contribution to care. The basis on which the Wlz own contribution is calculated has been reduced from 12.5% to 10%. As of 1 January, the capital income add-on amounts from 8% to 4%. For the WMO, the unsavory subscription rate will be introduced, on which we will have a number of further debates. That even saves people who get care under the Wlz or the Wmo. For hundreds of thousands of people, that saves hundreds to thousands of euros a year. So precisely the people who experience a build-up of care costs are making tremendous progress on 1 January next. That is what we are doing to address the accumulation of healthcare costs. And that is certainly not tender, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u155	Maybe I missed something, but I asked another question about the tailor-made arrangement. That's what the Minister is talking about. My question was, in fact, what exactly does this mean and what is the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u156	That's actually the conversation you've had in a different way. Mr. Hijink cut that. It concerns the question of whether part of the pgb initiatives were created because the alternative to care in kind was not sufficiently available, or because parents with alternatives to care in kind did not have sufficient experience of being able to direct themselves. That's why we talk in many places with municipalities or with health offices, whether it's the Langer Home programme or other things, about what we can do to make the provision of care in kind work in such a way that it gives parents the idea of their own direction. That conversation's going on in a lot of places.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u157	Finally, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u158	I share the Minister's analysis, as well as what Mr Hijink said about it. I have also made a few comments about this in my contribution. In your response to the SCP report, you write very explicitly that you are in conversation with parties about this tailor-made arrangement. That's why I'm asking what's the status of these conversations. What are they supposed to lead to? And when?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u159	That conversation isn't over with: and so, et cetera. As with that other conversation we were just talking about, it has not yet led to a conclusion that you are getting excited about at the moment. I promised I'd get back to you before the summer. I suggest that I also report to you on this point, the ZIN alternatives, what the state of mind is at that time. I think that's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u160	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. I'll start reading right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the SCP report, as at home, shows that short indicative decisions from the 2015 WMO are one of the uncertainties faced by parent initiatives;]] [[Whereas such short indicative decisions lead to regular re-indication pathways, which are costly for a municipality and highly burdensome for clients;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage in discussions with KansPlus, To-Choice, Per Balance, Parental Initiatives and the VNG with the specific aim of issuing longer-term award decisions for the Wmo-pgb and informing the Chamber in the second quarter of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Slootweg, Mr Agema, Mr Hermans, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-181]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u162	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that financial uncertainty in the SCP report is referred to as a threat to parental initiatives, as well as that the Wlz residence bonus is of great importance for the establishment or maintenance of a parent initiative;]] [[Whereas the SCP report shows that there are signs that the Wmo-pgb is insufficient to invest, inter alia, in home automation;]] [[Invites the Government, in consultation with the VNG, KansPlus, To-Keuze, Per Balance and Parental Initiatives, to further explore the issues experienced by parent initiatives regarding the insufficient budgets in the Wmo-pgb and the Chamber by mid-2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-182]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u163	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SCP report shows, as at home, that parental initiatives are under pressure from uncertainties, including due to regulatory pressure;]] [[Considers that parental initiatives are of great value and directs the appropriate care for their children;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with KansPlus, To-Choice, Per Balance and Parental Initiatives, to identify the laws and regulations applicable to parental initiatives in order to assess whether a lighter regime in terms of law and regulation is possible while maintaining the quality of care and to inform the Court of Justice in mid-2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Hermans. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-183]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u165	Thank you. Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas parents seeking opportunities for starting a parental initiative within the care in kind are now often stuck with funding and/or organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to promote parental initiatives in kind care and to support parents who are stuck in the development of the Parental Initiative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-184]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u167	And then there's the second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas parental initiatives are about the quality and direct control of parents and clients;]] [[Whereas these principles do not relate to a commercial product;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the dissemination of high-quality parental initiatives with direct control while at the same time avoiding the commercial exploitation of parental initiatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-185]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u168	Thank you, Mr President. We have talked about a great deal, including the desire to look in the collective of such an initiative to see if we can reduce the administrative burden. That could possibly be done by a collective pgb. The Minister is still a little hesitant about that. So I hope that with this motion I have found the middle in this way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parental initiatives respond to the need for people with disabilities to live together and to have as much of their own direction as possible about care and living;]] [[noting that the pgb provides for the desired form of funding for many parents;]] [[Whereas the budgets of residents are combined to pay for the care, but the purchase of care is handled individually by budget holders at the health care office and the Social Insurance Bank, and this leads to additional administration;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with the SCP's recommendations, to examine the possibility of reducing the administrative burden on pgb for these types of housing, e.g. by a collective pgb,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-186]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have raised three points on the pgb rates, on the ongoing re-indications and on the skipped regulations. With regard to the constant re-indications, I have signed a motion by Mrs Bergkamp. I had taken a motion that I had tabled before not to re-indicate people who have had an indication for ten years or more, but I will not present it now. She'll move on, but I think Mrs Bergkamp's is more likely. Then I have a motion on the regulation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to abolish all the rules that have been introduced for parental initiatives over the last 10 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-187]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr. Chairman. I understand, now that the Minister has indicated that the major windfalls on VWS can lead to a lower healthcare premium, that all those huge windfalls since 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 will result in a colossal reduction of healthcare premiums from EUR 9.6 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Mr Slootweg has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister, too. I do think, with the number of commitments and references to other reports, that it might help to get some sort of overview of where it went. I think that just gives a little more overview and a manual where we are going. Another important point in which we have stood still is the pgb tariffs. The minister will check with the municipalities to see if it is sufficient. Would it also make sense, for example, to involve parents' interest groups in looking at this adequacy? So on the one hand, the municipalities, but I also think you should give the parents a place to do that. I would also like to have signed Mr Hijink's motion. We are concerned with parental initiatives about direct control, that the direction is there. We continue to think it is very important that this can be secured, because the question is that there is a great deal of unrest with parents or their child, if they can't do it anymore, can be taken care of in a good place. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u173	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Hermans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u174	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I do not have any motions, two more questions, or actually one question and one comment. The question is about the next person's funding in the experiment that is going on about it. The Minister refers to the final evaluation to be carried out in spring. I took the letter with me real quick. What strikes me is that in the experiment in Rotterdam a lot of attention is now being paid to a very important element too, getting the question behind it well on the table, but that very point that my question was about, of this personal funding, has actually been very limited. So I would ask the Minister to look very explicitly at this, especially in the evaluation, because that seems to me to be such an important tool for getting that control, that direction on care and support. I would also like to make a comment on the multiannual allocation or indication. I would also like to sign the motion tabled by Mrs Bergkamp on this, because I feel that we have a subject here that we will continue to discuss with a great many people for a very long time. Things are already going well in some places, so that really makes me feel like: share those good examples, with all the things that we have to keep in mind: decentralisation and also occasionally see if the indication is still appropriate, of course, I think that all makes sense. But please, I think there's a real pace to be made here. I sincerely hope, for all those parents we can help with that, that that will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u175	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. That was the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then the Minister can read the motions as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u176	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u177	Thank you, Mr President. I will confine myself to the motions and questions that were put in the second term. I'll start with the motion in part No. 181 of a large number of MPs. There are so many of them that I come to 'judge chamber' anyway, of course. That's how handy I am by now. But with more precision: this is just good to do. However, I would like to make one comment. We are, of course, dealing with a decentralised system, particularly in the case of municipally financed pgbs. The answer you will eventually find must therefore also be appropriate. So that space where uncertainty is removed, I'd like to keep it. But I am sure you will agree with me, and that is why I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 182. It calls on the government to identify the problems experienced with regard to the adequacy of budgets. That is a policy support, I would say. That leaves the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u178	So it concerns support for the policy? I'm looking at the assessment framework of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u179	I'm okay with taking over on my own. I just said, here's what I'm gonna do. I understand the encouragement to do so. I could also take over the motion, but then it will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u180	No, you don't, if no one objects. Okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u181	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u182	Then there is the motion in part No. 182 taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u183	Then the motion to part No. 183. It deals with the handling of administrative burdens and asks to see if a lighter regime is possible in terms of legislation and regulation. That's an interesting one. As far as I am concerned, I could give this form as part of a process to reduce the administrative burden within the pgb. For that reason, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 184 by Mr Hijink. It calls on the Government to encourage parental initiatives in kind care and to support parents who are stuck in the development of the Parental Initiative. That seems appropriate to me. Especially when developing a specific form of customer support, I think this is in line with that. That is why I should like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 185. I am not going to recommend this motion, in particular because of the second part of the operative part, namely 'to prevent the commercial exploitation of parental initiatives at the same time'. It is not that I am furiously enthusiastic about the commercial exploitation of parental initiatives, but I am afraid to say 'judge Chamber' or to adopt this as a policy. This would also make very nice initiatives that you too are enthusiastic about impossible, and you mentioned just a few in your first term. So I would like to have a much more nuanced and much more precise debate about profit in healthcare. That's what we're gonna have in the first quarter of next year. In short, I would advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 186. I actually agree with that motion, except for the very last sentence after the decimal point. So if you would be willing to have a short scraping session and delete the part "for example by a collective pgb," I can give this "judge chamber." If not, I'll give the judgment "dissuade" because I don't want to suggest anywhere that I could ever get excited for a collective pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u184	Mrs. Ellemeet is in doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u185	It is also a definition issue: what do you mean by such a collective pgb? Because for part of the practice, that's already the case. Collaboration is taking place, but it is being pulled apart in handling and accountability. So what if the Minister reads the text in such a way that I mean by that and I want to see how we can organise it so that we have less trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u186	It sounds very roomy, but I think we should be more precise. No, because then the suggestion will be raised. Read the sentence after... that I should also find that as a policy option interesting. I don't want to do that. We have an individual pgb. Sometimes the individual pgb can indeed be used for a collective performance of the care you purchase with that pgb. What I do want to do is look at the administrative burden that comes out of it when you have to put an individual pgb together and answer individually again. But that's different. I would like to look at that, as I have just promised you, but I am not going to suggest that there might be a collective pgb...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u187	Clear. Then it is up to you, Mrs Ellemeet, to change the motion or put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u188	I'm adjusting the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u189	Thank you. Then she gets "judge chamber." The motion in part No. I find Mrs Agema's 187 very interesting, but I simply cannot see what I am throwing away; probably also very interesting additions made on the initiative of your Chamber. I understand from this the encouragement of firm action to reduce administrative burdens in the pgb, but I do not recommend this motion. Then you asked another question about the premium. I do not think that the President will allow me to have an hour-long talk about this. So I refer to all those times that I have done so before in this beautiful Chamber. The CDA said that there are many commitments and references, including to other programmes, and asked if any of them could come up with an overview. I'm very fond of overview myself, so let me promise. In any case, I have already promised that we will come up with an integral letter by the summer, but I think that, having heard this debate, I should indicate in January what will come back to it and how I will put it on the way. I am also referring to the motions that are being adopted on this issue. That's the kind of summary letter you're about to receive. Will parents also be involved in the study carried out in the context of the adequacy of the budget? Sure. I think that's important, because otherwise you can't do that research in a good way. That will also be part of the implementation of the motion if it is adopted. Then there's the question of direction. Yes, of course I agree with you very much. That is basically the point: that parents want to direct how care and support is designed for their children. The VVD underlines the tempo at the very first motion. Also because of the impressive number of names under that motion, the urgency felt by the Chamber has become quite clear to me. That's how I deal with it. With regard to the evaluation of the personal funding experiment, Mrs Hermans stresses that she really wants to see in the final evaluation what the person-based funding part has been and not all the other side effects of the experiment, which may also be beautiful. I share that with her, so I will see to it that the evaluation takes a good look at it, so that we can have that debate properly at that time. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u191	Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u192	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m.
