ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual on Tuesday, we shall begin with oral Question Time. The first question is from Mrs Beckerman of the SP, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, whom I would like to welcome. The question is about the possibility of strengthening over 1,200 houses in City. I call Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	A year and a half ago, I became a Member of Parliament. My first sentence in the Chamber was: "I find it very painful to see how much is being destroyed in my province." My second sentence was: "It's hard not to hate politics." A year and a half later, nothing has changed for Groningers. Last week, research carried out by the University of Groningen showed that Groninger's belief in a successful outcome of the gas extraction process is getting worse. That's exactly what they're telling me. For example, Ditta tells me: "The reinforcement investigation took place in 2016, but we do not hear anything. Our house is cracking and shaking. And we're tired, so tired. We don't see the forest through the trees anymore, while I think it's so simple." And Richard tells me, "All in all, there's a lot of talk, a lot of shoved and even more delayed. I'd love to live my life again. This situation sucks you out. And sometimes I think: I hope that my house comes down, with a bad ending; maybe I will be taken seriously." A lot of Groningers still have no idea what's going to happen to their house. And even as MPs, we don't know how the reinforcement of unsafe houses continues, and when. But over and over again we have to hear from the media that there are again problems with the rafting of the reinforcement operation. Last week, for example, it appeared that there was a ticking time bomb under the reinforcement, because unsafe homes may not come out of the NAM model as "unsafe" and that over 1,200 houses in the city may also need to be strengthened. I know the minister. He will probably say: I am working on it, I am still consulting with the region. That's not enough. Even his own supervisor says that the reinforcement should be started immediately; efforts should be made to complete the reinforcement within seven years. I would like a response from the Minister to the words of his own supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I didn't make it a secret a year ago that it hurt me to see so many houses on the demolition list. That's why we're now doing gas extraction to zero. It's going, I think, faster than Mrs. Beckerman thinks. The piece is neatly nuanced. And no, that certainly doesn't mean that we now know that the houses in the city of Groningen need to be strengthened. But it is true that throughout the region, including in Groningen City, there are houses on the list that need to be looked at to see if they need to be strengthened. This is what this is about. There are no Groningen Town Halls on the list of the most risky houses I know. So these are houses that need to be looked at, precisely to determine whether they need to be strengthened. Now Mrs Beckerman says: he should not come up with the idea that he still needs consultation with the region. But this is about the region, this is the region. I am only in favour of taking the Groningen region and the important decisions that are there, from The Hague and this Chamber. We, the region and I, have agreed that I will give the region and the NCG the opportunity to make preparations, including communication. Communication too, because we have said together that care is above speed, and that the region has an important role to play in this. Easy for me to say; I'm not standing there in the towns and villages. The region does. The regional leaders, too, have asked me to give them some room for that. I think that is perfectly reasonable, and I fully support it. And I'm sticking to that deal. In this respect, I regret the premature publication of incomplete information in the media, which gives people half-information. I would prefer to have the region and the NCG do so at once, in a careful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	In February of this year, in response to written questions from me and my colleague Mr Kooiman, you said that removing the causes of stress and uncertainty is the top priority now. But precisely uncertainty about the safety of your own home gives stress and uncertainty. It is your own supervisor who says: "In July it was said that the plan will be ready in September. That didn't happen. In September it was said that it would be in October. That didn't work either." He says very clearly: get to work now. That is also what the region is asking you to do. My simple question is, what is stopping you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	What's stopping "the minister"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	Just start. Make sure that funding is settled and get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	There's no "u." The region and I fully agree that we should start immediately, but it is the region that rightly and understandably asks for some time in communication to report this to those people. Because if a cause of stress is uncertainty, wrong information is totally a source of stress. I think that this wish of the region is perfectly understandable. I'm in favour of that, and I'm giving them time. There is no one else in the whole game who doesn't think we should start as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	"Nobody in the whole game." Minister, this is not a game. This is about unsafe homes, about people who are incredibly in trouble, getting sick of misery because they don't know if their house is safe. You talk about the region time and time again, but we know that that region wants to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u11	Do you say, like your supervisor, that this can be completed within seven years and we're gonna start this month? What are you saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u12	What does "the minister" say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u13	I would very much like to know from the Minister whether he is going to support his supervisor and what he is going to say to the residents of Overschild and Krewerd, for example, who have already made plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u14	I am sitting with both the region and the NCG this week and I hope to hear from them when they think that communication is prepared and that we can go outside. I am not going to decide that from this seat for the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Let's see, who was before? Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u16	Of course, it's been going on for months. We had July 1st as a border. Then it would be clear to everyone in Groningen. It's already mid-November. And suddenly the inhabitants of the city of Groningen are told that 1,200 homes are unsafe and need to be strengthened. When do people get clarity about what's going to happen to their homes individually, in their own homes, whether it's a rental house or a merchant house? July 1st would be clear. We're almost in 2019 and people are still freaked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u17	The 1 July date is linked to the result of what has to be done with the 1,588 homes. Mr Nijboer knows this very well. That conclusion came on 2 July. We've known that for a long time. This is the new plan of action. Everyone wanted to start on the 3rd of July, so to speak. That's not so easy at all. It is now a legitimate wish of the region to check everything three more times and prepare for communication. I think that's perfectly reasonable. I protest against one thing: no, it is not true that someone has established that so many homes in the city of Groningen are unsafe. No, it's not like anyone has determined that they need to be strengthened. These are the houses on the list. A recording will then have to determine whether these houses are unsafe and need to be strengthened. That's what's going on. The list of the most risky houses contains no houses in the city of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u18	I heard the minister right. What we notice in the report is that Groningen has not yet been officially identified as an earthquake municipality. Still, there's damage. We wonder if there are more of such risky areas that we do not yet have in our sights but which we should look at. How does the Minister see that? What risk does he see?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u19	I don't see that. That's up to SodM and the Mining Council. We have not explicitly chosen a system in which the ruler decides for a moment what would be unsafe in the region. For that we need specialists who determine in independence what is unsafe. That which is unsafe or possibly unsafe must all be looked at. If the specialists change their mind, that will also be on the list. Security is at the top of the line, and there's not a single ruler in there. Are there more? That will be evident when the NCG comes out with its plans. There are houses that we now know need reinforcements, about which there will be a discussion with the residents, because they are ultimately about them, and there are houses that need to be looked at if they are unsafe. That's a lot of houses too. According to the results of the Mining Council, these were about 5,000 homes, which have to be determined whether they meet the standard and whether reinforcement is needed. They also come into that process, but we start with the houses that are clearly not complying with the standard. That's where the backup starts. By the way, it is already partly in the process, but the official kick-off is once the region reports that it is ready and that the NCG can go out with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u20	In fact, we are not getting any answer from the Minister: not when the official kick-off is, as the minister calls it; not when people know whether their house is safe or unsafe; and not if the minister is following his own supervisor, who says that this can be done within seven years. I think we should debate this much more extensively. I will ask you to do so in the course of the work. But I'm still trying one more time to finally get a concrete answer. A lot of Groningers are waiting for that, because they know: that big blow can come and I don't know if I'm safe here. Sometimes they even know they're not safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u21	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u22	My question is: is the Minister following his own supervisor, who says that this operation must be completed within seven years? Seven years is long enough. It's a shame people spend so long in an unsafe house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u23	If my wish list were to come true, those houses would have been strengthened, but we agreed with the administrators from the region that we would not make promises if we were not sure that we can keep them. Making promises here now when we do not yet know what the pace of the new reinforcement operation is, would therefore be very unwise and would immediately make me sin against that appointment. The ideal images of Mrs Beckerman and I are probably quite similar, but in the end we have to deal with it in the region. I have the greatest respect for that and I want to respect all the agreements on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u24	I'm gonna take a look at the last thing the Minister says. Of course it must be done together with the region. We have tabled motions in the Chamber before that everything has to be done within so many years, but none of that has come true. The Minister states that he needs to be a little cautious in this area. I share that with him, but I can imagine there's gonna be some script work going on. There's gonna be, like, houses every time. That scares everyone in Groningen. I'm also shocked, because we're suddenly talking about possibly 1,200 houses in town. Then you'd like to know when such a recording can be made. Can periods be indicated for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u25	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u26	I ask the Minister whether it is possible to work with scenarios and periods in which that can be indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u27	As far as I'm concerned, the NCG really comes with an order. For the first steps he has a time indication, but for the later steps he is more cautious in doing so, because we do not yet know what the rate of surgery is. It is therefore the intention to always inform people, to do such a recording within a reasonable time and then to really do the strengthening within a reasonable time after the recording. There have of course been situations in which there have been years in between and everyone has experienced this as very unpleasant. That's what we're trying to prevent. So the moment there's an appointment, there's gonna be a recording and then a backup. We want to make that happen as quickly as possible. We will see at what rate that is going to happen, but the first steps are planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-2.u28	Thank you.
