ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	It feels incredibly uncomfortable to proceed to the order of the day. The Prime Minister is ready to reply, but before I give him the floor for his answer in the first term, I would also like to give you a message. The comments from society on the tone of last Wednesday's debate will not have escaped anyone here in the Chamber. I've received a lot of e-mails and letters from citizens from all over the country. People are very annoyed by the language and the way we deal with each other. They think the language is rude and harsh. The debate can be conducted at the sharpest of the cuts, fiercely and critically, but it can also be done without becoming personal. It is our joint responsibility to treat each other with respect. The prestige of the Chamber is all of us, 150 Members of Parliament. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President. As far as I am concerned, too, there is a need for me to say a few words about what happened yesterday in response to the first term of the Chamber following yesterday's terrible event. As you said, yesterday, the lives of many families and families in Oss were changed forever by one dramatic moment. Four young children who are suddenly gone and another child and a young woman who are badly wounded in the hospital: it is the nightmare of every father and mother, every grandmother and grandmother, every brother and sister. We can hardly imagine their grief, their impotence and their disbelief. This is intense, intensely sad. "Oss is in her soul," I read in one of the newspapers this morning. To be honest, I think that the whole of the Netherlands has been moved, that the whole of the Netherlands sympathizes with this grief and sympathizes with the victims and their families, with their friends, the teachers and classmates, with the staff of the daycare center, with the engineer, the conductor, the fire department and with everyone who somehow is involved in that terrible accident. Indeed, we are standing here today and having a debate. That has become no less important after yesterday, of course not. I think at times like these, we all feel that there are things in life that are even more important. On behalf of all of us, therefore, at the beginning of this day, I would like to express our support and sympathy for all the relatives and all those affected by this accident. We're thinking of you. Madam President. Last Tuesday it was Prince's Day, the day the government presented the budget. It was a sunny Prince's Day and it was a budget that was interpreted as sunny by many. However, taking into account everything that is coming to us at international level, the budget, insofar as it was sunny and is not, in the first place, the merit of politics. Let me say that right away. If things are going well, it is primarily thanks to the Netherlands, because people are going to work every day, and fortunately more and more people are going to work every day, because there are entrepreneurs who create jobs and growth. It's because of all those people who care for the high quality of our health care, our education, who make sure that the country is safe. At the same time, the country is not finished. The common thread of the Throne speech was actually twofold, namely "now that things are better, people have to feel it," and secondly, we also want to show that we are not dealing with ourselves, that politics is not there for politics, but that politics is there for people in the Netherlands. In order to maintain prosperity, it is necessary to continue to work on our locational environment, and that brings me to a subject that threatens to remain under-exploited, namely dividend taxation. Let me briefly explain why the cabinet is taking this measure. We are taking this measure because we want companies that are in the Netherlands to stay here and because we also want to see what is possible to attract more companies to the Netherlands. In that case, three factors are of great importance, which were also reflected in the excellent debates that were held here on Wednesday, in the various debates between members of the coalition and members of the opposition. And, of course, I have a view on that. I am probably more on the sidelines, as you will understand, of the arguments that came from the coalition. That is because I have an opinion on it, but it was a good debate in itself. First, because the dividend tax plays a role in the choice of business location. This is especially true when there is restructuring, when things are going to change, when companies are really going to have to look: where are we going to settle? Where are we gonna settle? Are we gonna change? This also applies to all those new companies in the ICT sector, in the innovative economy, who need to see where they are going to set up their headquarters. Then that plays a major role, in addition, of course, to all the other location factors. The second point is that it not only provides jobs at headquarters, but also that came out well in the debate on Wednesday because such a head office provides a lot of jobs around the head office. It was the mayor of Amsterdam, excuse: from Rotterdam, who last Wednesday or Tuesday, at least this week, spoke at BNR about the importance of a good location climate, and especially for the 38,000 people who do not yet have a job in Rotterdam. He then gave the example of a taxi driver who complimented him, because Rotterdam had managed to make arrangements with Shell, to move activities from Shell to Rotterdam. The cab driver said to Aboutaleb, "That's important to me." Finally, the third reason, before I may get to the first interruption to do this, is that it is important where such a head office sits. Because if such a head office is located in a particular country, it also affects the decisions that that company is going to take. This was also reflected in the discussion last Wednesday, in the example of Opel and Peugeot. There are more examples that show this, even in large companies that are in the Netherlands and contribute to, for example, food supply or the climate transition. It is attractive if these companies are based here, that is the so-called home bias. It is inherent and a fact that, as a head office in a particular country, that country may also be more dominant in the top structure of such a company, that certain decisions which that company is going to take will go to that country rather than to other countries. Those are three very good reasons for doing this and why the cabinet, in a mix of measures, is investing in the public sector, besides all the other things we do for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Vpb, the burden relief for citizens, making public finances healthy, has also taken this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	The core of today's debate, which is a follow-up on Wednesday, is whether this coalition and this Prime Minister are prepared to change together with the opposition and a large part of the population, to spend more money on the people rather than on the multinationals. This issue is extremely important in this respect. The Prime Minister has tried all kinds of arguments over the past year, but has often not supported them. He indicates here that in many companies the dividend tax plays a major role in the question of whether they will settle in the Netherlands. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does that prove?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	As with any tax measure, this can never be supported by 100%. There has been a lot of material coming up recently and also articles that show that this plays a major role. That's what experts say. The same experts also say: in the case of a tax measure, you never know for sure what the effect is. I have reviewed the beautiful ruling of one of the most famous tax professors in Dutch history, Hofstra. In 1953, he said that it is not always possible to make concrete statements about the direct effects of a hypothetical tax measure. Last week, an article was published by Pöttens and Sleurink in which they write that out of the approximately 100 billion in tax measures taken over the past few years, 179 tax concessions and 34 tax instruments are never entirely empirically ascertaining what the intended effect will be. That's one. The second is that in the same recently published articles, the importance of this measure is becoming increasingly evident, especially in relation to the United Kingdom, which is not subject to the dividend tax. It becomes clear how decisive it can be for companies to decide whether to settle or stay here, especially in periods of restructuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	It's 10:45 and we're going straight into a Ruttian smokescreen. My question was very simple. The Prime Minister states that it plays a decisive role for many companies in choosing the Netherlands as a location or dividend tax and, if so, how high. My question was: how does that prove?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	This was partly evident from contacts that the cabinet itself has with companies. We have already said that we can never talk about this openly because it is also confidential information about companies. One company is very open about that and that's Shell. That is the company that has been most open about how decisive it was for them to establish the headquarters here, but also to stay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally. The Prime Minister began his speech by saying with great certainty that this plays a role for many companies. Last year he talked about the many international contacts that would prove that. Is my impression that it is mainly apparent from national contacts with two companies, Unilever and Shell? The certainty with which he put this here is therefore not justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	No, that's not right. I refer to the answer given earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	The answer given earlier was a story that it's all not 100% certain. My question is: how does it prove that this is such a role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	The answer given earlier was one of the discussions on empirical evidence. For both of us, you'll never be able to establish it with certainty. You take a huge gamble and a huge risk if you did, given all the signals out there, ignore and let these very big companies leave. The second part of the answer was about the fact that there is more and more support. This is also seen in international literature and national literature. It is a fact that it is very important for companies, especially in the United Kingdom/Netherlands ratio, whether or not this dividend tax exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	I am not very much concerned with this subject, of course, but I do not think anyone here has seen all the literature Mr Rutte is talking about. What I have seen coming by is the American Chamber of Commerce saying: as far as we are concerned, there is no need to abolish the dividend tax. What I have seen coming by is that several banks have indicated: well, abolishing the dividend tax, actually that is not so wise. You will find that, even for companies, for example from the United States who were passionate about it at first, it is not relevant. The aid is crumbling, including from the business community. How can Mr Rutte insist here that there is support in society and in business and that it is necessary to keep companies here, to bring them here or not to let them take over? I don't remember exactly what the argument was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	In any measure taken by a cabinet, Mr Klaver knows that, I think, there are always people who support a measure and people who do not support a measure. There is always a considerable body of opinion that is for or against. It always is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	Seriously? Is this the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	"If you take a measure, there are always people who are in favour and people who are against it." There is no one left to abolish the dividend tax. The opposition comes not only from the left side of this Chamber but also from the right side of this Chamber. The opposition comes not only from NGOs like SOMO, but also from large banks that say: don't do this. Even the American Chamber of Commerce says: well, as far as we are concerned, it is not important for the climate of establishment. Then you can't get away with saying there's always some people against it? Who else is in favour of this, except the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	One of the largest Dutch companies stands for the decision to come to the Netherlands, to deal with it at its meeting of shareholders at the end of October. Another very large company is already in the Netherlands, but stands for the decision whether to stay here or not and to establish its head office even more strongly in the Netherlands. These are companies that are partly British, partly Dutch. There are also many companies that are British and are thinking about where they are going to settle, also because of Brexit. Such large companies, together with the companies I mentioned, constitute a third of the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Then I calculate it very conservatively; if you calculate it slightly less conservatively, they form half of the fair in Amsterdam. The cabinet believes that because of the level playing field with England, the dividend tax has to be removed in order for such a decision to fall in the right direction. If these companies leave, it's gonna have a huge impact. It's not just the fact that those companies are gone. It also has indirect effects on employment, on the decisions taken on investment and on the position of the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. It will become much more of a regional trade fair from an important international trade fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	This shows the incredible gap the Prime Minister has with the rest of the Netherlands. This shows the gap that exists with all those people working in the public sector. Two companies indicate that they have difficulties with their shareholders and that they are engaged in a struggle. I can see that, too. This Prime Minister pays EUR 2 billion, perhaps more, without pardon, to help them, while there is a call from people in the youth care, education and the police. They say, The water is on our lips; invest more, do more. Does this cabinet choose to say, "Huppakee, we're raising money?" When more money is needed to pay the abolition of the dividend tax, the cabinet would pay it. But at the moment when more money is needed to reduce the waiting lists in youth care or to close the pay gap in education, the cabinet remains silent. This affects people's confidence in democracy, Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	The risk you're taking is that some of the biggest companies leave. Mr Klaver and I have had this debate before. You can say that these companies may have a problem with this tax; why would you give in to it? That is a fair question, and that is also a fair balance. You can also make a different assessment. You can say, "Listen, because of all the signals, we don't do it." The assessment of this cabinet and of this coalition is that we are not just losing opportunities to bring business to the Netherlands, but that we are losing some of the largest European companies, such as the third company that is listed on the English Stock Exchange and the largest company in Europe. These companies are now based in the Netherlands or want to settle in the Netherlands. If we lose them, it will have enormous effects on employment, on investment decisions, on the position of the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. It affects the position of the Netherlands, also internationally in our economic structure. I think that is an unacceptable risk. That's why the Cabinet is taking this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u21	The Prime Minister speaks passionately about the Amsterdam Stock Exchange and about these two large companies. But there are people in the public sector, in youth care and education who come to you crying during demonstrations: this is the most beautiful profession in the world, but I don't know if I can do this anymore. There's a crisis going on. You should invest in that. The passion with which the Prime Minister talks about sending money to foreign shareholders and then hoping those companies will stay here, because we don't even know that for sure... One thing I'm sure of. If we were to invest that 2 billion differently by giving it to the public sector, I am sure that the people who work there are better able to do their job, to better care for our elderly and to give our children a better future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u22	I would like to draw attention to two points in response to Mr Klaver's speech. First of all, it's always en-and-and-and-and in politics. This cabinet invests 6 billion in the public sector. So not 2 billion, but three times as much as Mr Klaver proposes. That's one. Secondly, we are putting public finances in order. Three: we will reduce the burden on workers in this country. Four: we are also creating a strong economic structure. Why is it so important? Especially for those first three goals. Suppose you don't have these kinds of companies and all the supplying industry around them. Then there is a great risk that the Netherlands will become poorer, that there will be less economic activity. This has a direct effect and a direct impact on whether we have the money to invest in the police and education at all. That's why it's always and-and-and in politics: making choices in scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u23	Since the presentation of the coalition agreement, the proposal to abolish dividend taxation has been criticised from all sides, not only here in politics from the left-wing opposition or the right-wing opposition, but also from society. Even part of the coalition parties and the supporters of the coalition parties indicate: no, abolishing the dividend tax is just a bad idea. I thought today it's gonna come, the Prime Minister starts with three reasons why we should do this. And what do I hear? Argument one: locational climate. Argument two: locational climate. Argument three: locational climate. I'm asking the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u25	Isn't there anything else...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u26	An excellent summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u27	Isn't there anything better than just the old riod of the locational climate, when you see so much resistance on the other side of society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Kuzu sums it up exactly. This is also exactly my speech, so thank you for that, even shorter than I did. Let me say the following. I also see the confidence figures that emerged this week at the EenVandaag Opinion Panel with Mr Rademaker and others. I think that these figures will improve dramatically if we decide today to delete this measure. Sure! But what would happen if, in a year, two years and perhaps much sooner, perhaps at the end of October, some of the largest companies decided to leave, not to settle here, with enormous consequences for the structure of our economy, for jobs in the Netherlands? Then what happens to those confidence figures? Would it not be right for the Dutch people to say: what have you done, you have made your own popularity more important than government? Mr. Chairman. Control isn't always funny. We all have to make difficult decisions here, even if they are not immediately popular. But that is really necessary to keep this country economically strong. This is necessary for the money we want to invest, especially in our health care, our police, our defence and our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u29	I know the Prime Minister as someone who does laugh and ridicule arguments, makes fun of things and laughs a little. But there's gonna be a second element attached to it. This is political frightening. This is scary. If we do not take this measure, yes, the future of the country looks very bad. I ask the Prime Minister: look in the country right now. Look how many teaching staff are on strike in primary education and are asking for less work pressure and a better wage. Look at the police, the people who take care of our safety. They're asking for a better collective agreement. Look at the people in the care. They've been complaining about work pressure and less pay for years. Then one thing becomes painfully clear. This Prime Minister, this cabinet, listens to a number of foreign shareholders, to a number of CEOs from multinationals and leaves a lot of people in society who in these times of economic growth are asking for something more, in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u30	It's not like you can focus on one measure. You can't just say we're investing in the public sector. That is what this cabinet does, even so much that the Council of State says: so, that's a bit wild, isn't the expansion of public finances going too fast? But we believe that this is necessary and that we can do so, while at the same time managing to put public finances in order, at the same time making room for relief for people in the country, for workers, and working on the structure of our economy. If we do not ensure that there are strong companies in the country, in small and medium-sized enterprises, but also in larger businesses, which make this country proud of the world's oceans and can trade with the whole world, then the money will not be available for these important facilities any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u31	It is simply nonsense to link all these arguments to the one subject at issue here, to abolish the dividend tax. As far as the location climate is concerned, there are many measures in the coalition agreement which we also encourage. The reduction of corporate tax, especially for small entrepreneurs, is included. That is indeed good for the climate of establishment. This is good for SMEs. That's the engine of our economy. But if this cabinet links these arguments to the dividend tax and stays in the rift of the locational climate while on the other hand so many people in society are worried about their future, then it has no ear for all those people in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u32	This also applies to: and-and. You also have to do everything for business and the business environment. You have to make sure that we are a strong country for our small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we are reducing corporate tax, thanking Mr Kuzu for his support, and we are taking measures to increase the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why, as well as for large businesses, we are reducing corporate tax. We're taking all kinds of measures. But in this mix this measure is necessary, because we are now in a unique time. Because of the low interest rates, money is very cheap internationally at this time. These very large companies are at risk of being taken over. These companies want to protect themselves from this and could therefore decide to leave, which is bad for this country. We believe that this measure will increase protection, which will greatly reduce these risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u33	Can I take it back to something very simple? The vast majority of the Netherlands are against this. A very small part of the Netherlands agrees with the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister listens to the bosses of Shell and Unilever. Those who suspect that this would be beneficial for the Netherlands. The vast majority of the Netherlands say: we are sure that the money will disappear abroad. How does the Prime Minister explain this to the vast majority of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u34	That goes in exactly the same way as the mayor of Rotterdam had his conversation with the taxi driver. If you want to make sure that there are that type of jobs in the Netherlands and that there are enough tax revenues to pay for our beautiful health care, our education, our defence and our security, the police sector and the fire department then it is necessary to have this kind of strong companies. At a time when the risks are increasing that this type of company could leave or do not want to settle here, as a cabinet, you are faced with the question of how to ensure that this does not happen. Then you must be prepared to take such a measure, even if it is not popular. As I said, if we were to delete this measure, the popularity of this coalition would grow enormously over the next two hours. But that would be temporary, like the effect of a hamburger. Because after a while, it turns out what really happens to someone and to this country and then people would rightly get very angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u35	We know that the abolition of the dividend tax has been mentioned in small circles for a very long time. Can the Prime Minister imagine that the voter feels really fooled at home? Then why has it not been in the electoral programmes of these coalition parties? If you already know something, and if you know it's hard to explain, you're not gonna do it at the last minute, are you? Wouldn't you have explained it to the voter much earlier? You're gonna be late! That is why there is increasing distance between the citizen and the people here in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u36	Even after closing the last amendments to the electoral programme, things are still happening. For example, at the beginning of last year we saw how one of the largest Dutch companies threatened to be taken over. That is something that has rightly been debated here. I have looked at it and there have been a total of 64 debates and sets of parliamentary questions and other things in recent years, where the cabinet was rightly asked to ensure that these large companies do not leave. It was all about all kinds of issues, but it was always touching on the investment climate and on how these big companies can be protected so that they stay here. But, of course, there is a difference. The interest rate is low and money is cheap. This type of company is therefore at risk of being taken over and is facing demand, also against the background of all the political developments in the United Kingdom, where they are going to settle. We are therefore at great risk. With this measure, the Cabinet considers these risks to be significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u37	The Prime Minister is avoiding my question. Yeah, things change after the election; a little kid knows that. But all the arguments he mentions, the low interest rates and the fact that the abolition of dividend taxation has long been discussed in advance, are the reasons why the citizen says: why were you not honest in these election programmes? That has nothing to do with the things that changed after the elections!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u38	The discussion on the abolition of the dividend tax dates back to 2005/2006. Then the whole discussion began, then the rate was reduced, then there was also a discussion in the cabinets that were sitting here, about whether this tax should not be completely abolished. That is where all these arguments were discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u40	Van der Staaij, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u41	Oh, good morning, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u42	Good morning, Madam President. I can imagine that, in view of my first term on Solomon, some associations with bishops will also emerge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u43	I must say, however, that your admonition this morning to use good language has had its effects here. It's going well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u44	So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u45	...so I'll do my best to remember myself from harsh language as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u46	But the SGP, unlike many other parties, did not say the same thing about the dividend tax: it cannot, it is wrong and it is not right. We were open in that, we wanted to hear the arguments. It is true what the Prime Minister says: sometimes you have to take unpopular measures. But I have to tell you, having followed the debate well, that we feel that the arguments have become thinner and the measure itself more expensive. That's a rather unfortunate mix. My question to the Prime Minister is this: you have seen the social acceptance continue to subside, has this also led to a review of "we have agreed on this, but is it not possible to serve in another way that location climate, which we too consider important, in such a way that it costs less money but can also help"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u47	Yeah, sure. Of course, you always talk to civil servants about whether there are alternatives to the policy that you set out. For example, you could reduce the Vpb further with that 2 billion, even towards the 20%. But what's the problem here? The Dutch economy has a rather unique mix that we have established here a few of the largest companies in the world. We believe that if we do not take this particular measure, namely that these companies are leaving, we will be at a very serious risk. Why is that? Because it is precisely that type of company that is partly British, partly Dutch, that of course also applies to companies that are now based in England, that is precisely in their decisions, especially in periods of transformation, of change, this tax is a very important one. And why is that? Because the dividend tax has all kinds of effects on the company, in terms of the difference in share value, recorded here or quoted in London, which in turn has effects on the acquisition price of such a company which is therefore lower and effects on the complexity of the company. It is not a tax that the company is facing. Big companies don't get that money, it goes somewhere else. But they suffer very much, in such a way that the persistent message, certainly in the last sixteen months, has become stronger: listen, we stand for very big decisions. One company, Shell, is very open about that. They represent very big decisions, and this is a very important factor. Then, of course, it's up to a cabinet to weigh that down. You could say, "Don't do it." Or, as Mr Van der Staaij says, you could spend it on something else. Of course you can. That is a fair debate to have. But then you take the risk, and we think a very big risk, that these very big companies leave the country and also that other companies in England... I also look at all the literature on this subject, which states that, apart from positive location factors such as our education and our infrastructure, the unequal playing field on the dividend tax between England and the Netherlands is very, very important. I'll make it a little longer, Mr. Chairman. This includes, but that is an aside, that there are a lot of international lawsuits going on on this issue, which, of course, leads to a discussion in the world and certainly in Europe or the dividend tax can be maintained at all. Many experts say that this tax is going to die anyway, because of the unfairness between different countries. I'm thinking of a lawsuit in Denmark that played recently. There are a lot of lawsuits in the Netherlands. That is an additional argument, but if you know that all of that is in the background, with the risk that you might have to get rid of it in a few years' time, and you would now, by maintaining the tax, be at risk of some of the biggest companies leaving, then this coalition thinks that we should not take that risk. So you can't solve that with another measure. Because the problem for these companies is not the tax burden itself. They will undoubtedly have problems with that too, if they have to pay less tax, but that is not the point. What matters here is specifically the distorting effect of the dividend tax itself, given their unique British-Dutch structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u48	I have also noticed that as a result the discussion is increasingly focused on the relationship with England and British-Dutch companies. But that also makes it very vulnerable, because you end up taking a very expensive measure for a very limited number of companies. If that is the argument, is there not, on the other hand, the risk that a limited number of companies actually dictate what the Dutch tax environment looks like?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u49	I do not agree with the latter, because in the end it is a trade-off that we make here with each other. It is not forbidden for these companies to say: listen, we are struggling with this and this question. That makes sense, too. If they didn't say that and just left, we'd be bothered by that and say for a moment that this is happening. What is going on here, of course, is that these companies can just be open about it. In the end, we decide what we're gonna do with each other. Mr Van der Staaij is also going to make that assessment. I hope that the SGP and everyone in this Chamber will say: okay, this is not popular, society doesn't think it's a thing at all; 11% supports the measure, I believe, and it's going down rather than up, but let's see what the effect will eventually be on the Netherlands if we don't do this. This is not just about a few companies leaving, but also about all the other location factors that make the Netherlands stand out so positively. Companies that are now in England are considering leaving England because of Brexit. They will, of course, also take into account the importance of the non-level playing field on this highly distorting tax, which does not directly affect their income, but it does affect that company, even when it comes to their investment opportunities. Finally, the effect this has on our exhibition in Amsterdam. This has a direct effect on our location in the future. If, in the worst case scenario, one third to half of the Amsterdam Stock Exchange were to go away, the two largest companies are one third to half of the stock exchange; the other 23 companies are half to two thirds of the stock exchange, then that stock exchange becomes so much smaller that the amount of trade that runs over it would decrease so that the Netherlands would lose a very important location factor that works to our advantage. This is a direct effect that is linked to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u50	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u51	Finally. We will indeed discuss this further in the Tax Plan. However, I must say that I find the Prime Minister's arguments clear, but not convincing if you consider the large amount of money involved, even though the Council of State noted that the loss of income here is very high in relation to the limited number of companies or the limited number of shareholders for which this could yield. Indeed, that remains the assessment that everyone will have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u52	Can I say two brief things about that in response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u54	Firstly, it is something that has to do directly with a few companies, but it has, of course, indirectly to do with many more companies, through the stock exchange and through the question of where future large ICT companies are going. Are the future Bookings also coming to the Netherlands or not? That has become one of the largest Dutch companies, but will it continue to do so if you know that there is an uneven playing field? Plus the fact that many companies in England are now wondering, given the political and economic chaos that has arisen there: am I leaving or am I staying in London? We know that this is a very important factor in this. I'm not just saying that. That's what the literature says. What Mr Van der Staaij is saying, I see as an encouragement to continue with this discussion towards the Financial Reviews and to see whether we are able to take away the idea that it would only be a few companies. That's probably the reason, but that's not the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u55	The Prime Minister talks about the credibility figures of his cabinet, or I mean he talks about the popularity. But I think he is ignoring the credibility of this, because in the meantime there is no one in the Netherlands who still believes this story. See also today. We are on our way with the General Reviews part two and it is about half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u56	My speaking time was shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u57	Absolutely, absolutely, but this indicates the importance of this measure. So it seems to me that Mr Rutte has made promises to Shell and Unilever in this Chamber a long time ago, and everyone in this Chamber knows that this is what this is about and that he cannot come back to it now. I would therefore like to briefly reconstruct with the Prime Minister exactly what happened. We know from the pieces that have been on the table that since 2010, since the Prime Minister arrived, discussions have been going on about abolishing the dividend tax. As always, he shakes very strongly now no, but I have the next question. The pieces show that Shell and Unilever came to visit you in 2010. You are so passionately shaking no, but what was your answer when they came to ask for the tax on dividends to be abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mrs Marijnissen asks for documents that have come after a request on the basis of the Public Administration Act. That happened a few weeks ago. That is what we discussed in Question Time. One of those documents concerns the preparation of a conversation I had with Shell in 2010 and conversations later. It is known that that company was already in the beginning of this century, against the background of lowering the dividend tax in 2005, with the political idea at the time of the cabinet to finally abolish it completely, had moved its head office to the Netherlands. What happens when I talk to companies is that, of course, officials are preparing me for the issues that could be raised in such a discussion. My answer was that the cabinet had no intention of doing so. Only this coalition incorporated that intention into the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u59	Apparently, the conversations have been going on since 2010. The Prime Minister states here that since 2010 he has said "no, friends, that's not gonna happen." I think I understand perfectly from the Prime Minister. Can he indicate what the exact moment he thought was "it would be a good idea to abolish the dividend tax"? What time was that exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u60	In my case, personally, you will have to ask the coalition for everyone.In early 2017, that conviction grew with the threatening takeover of Akzo and the threatening takeover of Unilever, with the fact that the analyses also showed that these companies, no matter how large they are, became very vulnerable to international takeovers because of the low interest rates and the fact that it is therefore quite easy to bring together very, very, very much money to do so. That was also discussed in the formation in the end. What is discussed there is confidential, as you know. But if you ask me personally, that belief grew with me in the first half of last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u61	Then my question still stands. If the Prime Minister denies that he has been doing so since 2010 and he has somehow made a promise to Shell to Unilever, but says that from the beginning of 2017 he had the idea that this was a good idea, why didn't it end up in his election programme in a decent way? Then why didn't you give all those Dutch who voted for your party and who made your party the biggest, the chance to find something of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u62	Yes, because the VVD has the crazy habit of having internal democracy. They don't all have parties. This means that such an election programme is established by the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr President, I have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'm gonna finish this. It wasn't a personal remark: put the shoe on. I didn't mean to. That means that such a party congress...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u65	Before you continue... This is a personal fact, isn't it? Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u66	At the time the Prime Minister is going to use this kind of text... I think we have a substantive debate here. This is about the subject that concerns the whole of the Netherlands. The Prime Minister comes up with these things. My question is very clear: if you found this from the beginning of 2017, why didn't you give all those people who voted for your party the opportunity to look into that too, to read it in your election programme, to make that assessment yourself: I would like to give 2 billion gifts to foreign shareholders...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u67	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u68	... or invest in our safety, care, education and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u69	Two facts, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, that electoral programme was adopted by us in November 2016. Secondly, with me the conviction has grown also against the background of the attempt to take over Unilever in early 2017, the events at Akzo and the whole fact complex that emerged in the course of 2017 that this would be good. But that's personal to me. Whatever else happens in the formation is confidential.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u70	Then I'll go to Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u71	I think that a lot of people who are watching this debate at home or perhaps looking back when they have to work now don't understand very much about it. The Prime Minister is, of course, about his own agenda, but we have a Prime Minister who starts by explaining in detail why 4 to 5 billion is being spent on reducing the profit tax for multinationals and abolishing the dividend tax for foreign shareholders. I think a lot of people at home are thinking, "Who is this man the prime minister from? He's talking about foreign investors and multinationals, wherever he's worked, of course. But yes, we have a problem. We see again that the energy bill is going up next year. We have to pay more for our health insurance. Our groceries are getting more expensive. Why isn't there a prime minister standing up for us and giving us four or five billion? We paid for the crisis. We paid for those cuts. What kind of strange man is he talking about Shell and not us?" Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u72	I want to be the Prime Minister of everyone in the Netherlands who wants to work or work in the police, in health care, in education, in the armed forces. For anyone who shows up in the field for all of us. For all those entrepreneurs, who take risks and want to set up a business. For all those farmers in the Netherlands, who, under difficult conditions, maintain an agricultural holding. And you know, we're not even putting 4 or 5 billion into those important goals. This cabinet is putting 6.... and according to the NRC fact-check even 8 billion... in the public sector! We are also spending many billions on reducing income tax. We can do that because in the past there were people in this country who were willing to set up companies, sometimes at great risk; smaller companies, medium-sized companies, which have sometimes become very large companies. They pay taxes, which is why we have built a great prosperity in this country. So as a coalition, you have to ask yourself, when you start: what is needed to ensure that there is also that earning power for the future, so that we can get money out of taxes and other things in order to eventually also fulfil those big and important public tasks? If you forget that these taxes have to be paid somewhere, or if you don't think that's important, then eventually there's no money for education, for health care and for police, and then the country is impoverished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u73	I'll tell you who paid all this tax. I will not mention everything, but I will say what Mr Rutte has done in recent years, including in his previous cabinet. He's raised the insurance tax. He raised the VAT to 21%. He even raised the soft drinks and excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. People have been given less care allowance, less rent allowance. He cut off the mortgage interest rate deduction. He raised the rents. Its own risk has increased. The care premium has gone up. He's cut back on pensions. He's raised the care premium. He abolished the Hills Act. He's going to import the flight tax and the garbage tax. And the VAT goes up. And do you know who paid for all that? The ordinary people, who are now watching television, have paid for all that. And now, apart from your investments in the public sector, you're not gonna give them anything back. The collective load pressure just goes up. People receive a maximum of one euro on average, and are often even in the minus. So all those taxes, Mr. Rutte, are paid by the ordinary people at home, who get up, go to work, take care of their kids, what they want to do on weekends with their families. And those who earn that money, not those multinationals and those foreign shareholders. They deserve the price they paid for Rutte to get back now. And if you don't deliver... Well, then who are you the Prime Minister from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u74	About a quarter of all workers in the Netherlands work in the public sector, three quarters work in companies. Those hardworking Dutch people in the public sector, and especially those three quarters in the companies, can work there because there are jobs. If those jobs aren't there, then those people don't have a job. Then these people will not be able to provide their income and ultimately they will not be able to pay part of that income to ensure that we all have money for the 2 million people in the public sector. That is why, as a cabinet, you have to do both: ensure a strong public sector, but also its financing. That means you have to ask yourself if this country is attractive enough to undertake. This must be done on a broad front: for small and medium-sized enterprises, which Mr Kuzu rightly referred to, with the low VAT rate and all kinds of other measures; and also for medium-sized and large businesses. For all these types of companies, we must remain a strong country in order for them to settle here. If you don't, you'll end up with a very big problem, because then there are no jobs. If there are no such jobs, then there are no such tax revenues. And then we have a very big problem with each other. That's why you can't look at one group through a straw, like just the public sector. It is very important; we are going to talk about it in detail. But you also have to ask yourself: how do we make sure that we make the money in this country to finance this wonderful public sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'm not even talking about the public sector. I'm talking about people's purchasing power. I am talking about the purchasing power of the people, who see that next year's rents are going to increase again, that the health insurance is going to be more expensive, that the pension is not even indexed, that the messages are going to be more expensive by €300. And they see a Mark Rutte who's been doing that for years. Which she always takes in their wallet. And then there's economic growth once, then we have two, three years of what is it again? 3.3%, about 10% growth in three to four years, and then they get a euro a day back - maximum, if they're lucky. You're not here for the ordinary Dutch. You are talking about the locational climate and about the companies. No one will deny that that's important, but give people back their money, that you took them, that you stole them. You're gonna have to give that back to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u76	Two answers, or two elements. Firstly, that taxes should be reduced. Once, and we will. And for the second I also go back to the taxi driver, which Ahmed Aboutaleb is talking about. That cab driver's got customers in the end. Those customers have to pay for that. During the day it is often companies that hire taxis to transport people and in the evening it is the entertainment public. If those companies aren't here, that cab driver doesn't have a job. And if that taxi driver doesn't have a job, he can't hire people himself, he can't pay taxes and the people who work for him can't pay taxes. But, I agree with Wilders, rather not too much, so please keep taxes as low as possible. But you have to tax this country in order to finance the public sector. So there's a direct link between: can you, as a cabinet, release 6 billion as we do now for the public sector and do you have a strong business? Quite apart from the fact that a country is becoming more enjoyable that, in addition to the people in the public sector who do good work, people are also willing to start a business, pursue an initiative, make innovation a success, grow from 50 to 100 people. Then you have to make sure you're a country where people like to do it, where it's attractive to have and grow a company like that. That is the Netherlands and we must remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u77	Finally. The Prime Minister responds in general and gives macroeconomic responses. What I would like to know is: what is your answer to the people at home who barely have anything to do, who are already happy when they can pay the rent and who see that next year's rent is going up again, who see that they have to pay more for their health insurance and they see that they have to pay more for the groceries in a moment? They now listen to you with a very macro-economic story. That doesn't help those people, Mr. Rutte. You've been knocking them out of the wallet over the past few years, I don't know how much money the pensions are often not indexed. Those people often just run out of money. And then you come up with a macroeconomic story about Shell and Unilever. People don't understand that. Give them back their money! It's not your money, it's their money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u78	I think that taxi driver is micro; that's just one person in Rotterdam who works. We can't make much more micro. This taxi driver has indeed seen the burden increase as a result of the crisis. I agree with Wilders. That's not nice, and I don't think it's gonna happen. Fortunately, we are now able to relieve the burden. The previous cabinet has done so in the 2015 budget and this cabinet will do so in the coming years. That is possible because the country has come out of the crisis so much stronger. The previous cabinet has tried to contribute to this by resolving the crisis. This therefore leads to lower burdens. But in the end, the discussion is not only about the burden, but also about whether there is any income for that taxi driver and for the employees of that taxi company. This is directly linked to the presence of companies, including large companies that create jobs for small businesses. If you don't see that, if you don't take all those aspects together, but just one thing out there, that's not fair to the viewers either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u79	The Prime Minister is trying to sell the interests of some companies, namely Unilever and Shell, as a public interest. He doesn't succeed in that; he has to establish that. And he's unbelievable, too. Take Shell, for example. Shell may be threatening to move to England. But look at the dividend tax in England: it doesn't exist, it hasn't existed for decades. And Shell never considered travelling to England. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Nu hebben we de brexit.]] Shell's top man said in January 2017 that the Brexit is a disaster for Shell and that England is not attractive to Shell. Then why would taxpayers want to pay another EUR 2 billion for Shell, in fact just for taking a gamble?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u80	Well, specifically for Shell, all those documents are known. Indeed, in 2005 and 2006, efforts have already been made to achieve a complete abolition of the dividend tax. Eventually, it was reduced to 15%. Known from Shell is... they say that in all openness... that it is a very important point for them. Not because the money is for the company, but because it disrupts their ability to eventually raise capital and function as a company. In doing so, this is very unfortunate in the level playing field with the United Kingdom. That's just the facts. So you take a big risk that, if you don't acknowledge that and leave the facts for what they are, these kinds of companies go away. It's impoverishing our country and our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u81	No, our country is impoverished by the fact that this Prime Minister is giving EUR 2 billion to a number of multinationals. That's the big problem. Again, Shell could have made the choice to go to England for decades because there was no dividend tax levied there. The Brexit will be added to that. The Prime Minister knew that long before he set up his election program. That is not an attractive development for Shell either. There is therefore no reason to gamble in advance by abolishing the dividend tax now. There are other ways of ensuring that the Netherlands remains attractive to such multinationals. Then we can also see that this Prime Minister has just become a strategist of a number of companies, such as Unilever and Shell, and that this is at the expense of people. He's rigging a welfare state for multinationals and he's breaking down the welfare state for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u82	On the contrary, I want the welfare state to remain affordable. That's why you need the big companies here. Just as specific about this company and the Brexit: these are companies of such a size that the English market is ultimately limited in importance for this type of company. As a result, there are companies, and therefore we have opportunities if we abolish the dividend tax, which, for that reason, want to come to the Netherlands because of the Brexit. But for this type of very large internationally operating companies, which reach only a fraction of their turnover in one country, the Brexit itself is not a decisive reason to stay there or to leave. This applies only to smaller companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u83	I see the same group chairmen again on this point. That's okay, but I really don't want us to repeat ourselves. If there are new questions, you will have the opportunity to do so, but not to have the discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr President, it is an important subject, so I would like to have this discussion with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u85	Everything's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u86	Yes, but as far as I am concerned today's debate is also very much about this issue. Abolishing the dividend tax is a silly measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u87	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u88	The Prime Minister likes to make it small. He talks about the taxi driver in Rotterdam. Let me give you another example. Yesterday, I received Mrs Cornelissen's pension statement. The increase in her pension in 2013: 0%. In 2014: 0%. In 2015: 0%. In 2016: 0%. In 2017: 0%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u89	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u90	And then it says below: we expect that your pension will not go up in the coming years. How does the Prime Minister explain this to Mrs Cornelissen, while on the other hand he gives 2.1 billion to the multinationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u91	Rightful question. Then my answer to Mrs Cornelissen will be that it is very, very unfortunate that this affects her, that this affects her directly in the wallet, but that pensions in the Netherlands are a matter for employers and employees. I would say to Mrs Cornelissen: if we were to do what some parties here in the Chamber suggest, such as Mr Krol, who I see coming from my corner of the eye, namely to adjust the interest rate, it would immediately result in the younger generation, i.e. the children and grandchildren of Mrs Cornelissen, being less likely to have a good pension. The only answer that politics can give to Mrs Cornelissen is that we are now promoting a good pension agreement between politicians, employers and employees. They're working hard on it. We'll talk about it later. I sincerely hope that it will happen, that we can conclude such a pension agreement, so that measures can be taken to prevent Mrs Cornelissen from having zero growth, or that there will be even worse cases where pension funds will no longer have to be cut. But that is not a matter that we can solve as politics alone, I would say to Mrs Cornelissen. This is primarily a matter for employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u92	Then there are many measures that this Prime Minister can take. Think, for example, of reducing your own risk, of not raising health insurance premiums, of not further increasing VAT on fruit, vegetables, butter, cheese and eggs. These are all kinds of measures that this cabinet chooses, which could help Mrs Cornelissen specifically. I'm asking the Prime Minister. He keeps this story in the direction of Mrs Cornelissen through this Chamber. I hope Mrs Cornelissen is watching. Do you think, Mr Rutte, that Mrs Cornelissen believes you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u93	I would then say to Mrs Cornelissen that I think we should do everything we can to see, despite the fact that pensions are not ours but employers' and employees', how we can ensure that she too feels it in her wallet when the Netherlands is making progress. I would say: these are never very large amounts, but fortunately we are now able to ensure that 97% of people over 65 are making progress in 2019. That's a very high percentage. Then she'll ask me, "How much is that?" Then I will say: it depends entirely on it, of course, but it is always amounts that will not make up for what has not happened to indexation in recent years. So I will be honest with Mrs Cornelissen that I cannot solve all this. We have to be fair about that. However, by taking a whole series of measures outside the direct pensions themselves and outside the second pillar, we have succeeded in ensuring that pensioners in the Netherlands improve in 97% of the cases next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u94	I would like to move on to Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Thieme: why was this not included in the VVD's election programme? That story's rattling. It has been known for a long time that companies want this. Shell sent another letter to all election programme committees in the spring of 2016. I found them very optimistic, because they also sent him to GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u95	They keep dreaming!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yeah, you can. In that letter, the question was: abolish the dividend tax. In June 2016, the Brexit was released. We've known for a long time that capital is very cheap. The election program of the VVD writes about the Brexit and what kind of threat it poses to stability in the Netherlands. All the arguments used by the Prime Minister to abolish the dividend tax were already there when the election programme of the VVD was written.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u97	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u98	At that time, he did not choose to include a measure "to the depth of his fibers" which he felt was necessary. I ask the Prime Minister: why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u99	I just gave the answer to Mrs Marijnissen: in the course of 2017 I personally believed that this would be necessary, because of the events with Unilever and Akzo last year. In addition, for me the following was involved. If you look at the position of Dutch, i.e. domestic multinationals, such as these big companies, they are not actually treated fairly with regard to the subsidiaries of foreign multinationals, because they can pay the dividend tax freely. The domestic multinationals cannot do this to the extent that they do so to foreign shareholders, and that therefore results in a distorted situation. And with that, there is actually a preference for foreign multinationals in the Netherlands. In my capacity as VVD leader, I thought it was important to put that in the formation. The risk I saw was that these companies, even under this takeover pressure, could decide to leave our country. That risk, plus all the opportunities of the Brexit, we put in the formation. And whatever else happened in the formation is confidential.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u100	I really asked a new question, but we get the same answer. The point is that we know these arguments. I'm just saying, this didn't happen at the beginning of 2017. This was a long time ago. All the arguments mentioned by Mr Rutte here have all been played much before when the election programmes were written. And it's customary as a political party to write down what you stand for and what you believe in to the depths of your fibers. That's where you go to the voter. That's gonna get you into the election. Then you try to win it and then you try to turn it into policy. Mr Rutte did not do so in the VVD election programme. And that's why his story rattles when he says: in early 2017, almost given by God, I got the insight that I should fight with all my fibers for the abolition of the dividend tax. Something doesn't add up. Those arguments were already known, so what changed and did not repeat in that spring? What exactly changed there that he thought at the time: well, now we have to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u101	We have also had debates with the Chamber here, at least not with me, but with the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr President, about the takeover attempts that have been made by some very large international companies. I thought that was 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u102	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u103	That's what happened before. Akzo played before. It's been going on before. The capital is cheap as a matter of fact. It has been for many years. We have known for many years that there is a danger of companies being taken over. So again, I don't understand why it suddenly became so pregnant, there in spring 2017. All the arguments were there before that. So I'm really wondering, what happened there? At what point has the Prime Minister been severely addressed by these multinationals, who said: now we have to do it? They thought there'd be a right-wing majority in this Chamber, so now we can settle it. What time was that, Mr. Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u104	I thought Mr. Klaver was gonna win the election. So what do you mean "right-wing majority"? But back to 2017. I think I have the facts on my side. That great takeover attempt at Unilever, the third company of the Netherlands and the second largest company of the English Stock Exchange, played early last year, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u105	Following on from Jesse Klaver's question, however, there is always reference to all those debates that were held at the time. But these debates were not about the dividend tax, not even from the cabinet or the outgoing cabinet. That has come to the Prime Minister in a different way. And that he's convinced, we know that now. But I do have concerns about the democratic content of the debate we are having here. I have two factual questions, which are actually about the active memory of this Prime Minister. Question one is: did Shell and Unilever ever threaten to leave because of that dividend tax? Question two: Is this linked to the survival of the cabinet in the talks in the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u106	The latter is not the case. I believe that Mr Segers has corrected that, after that suggestion seemed to arise, so no. And the first question concerns a confidential point. As far as Unilever is concerned, I can never say anything about it, because they themselves have not given it any openness. Shell has been very open, also to the Chamber, and even to Mr Klaver, I understand, about his wishes. And how you interpret that wish is up to everyone in this room, but they've been open about it. Whether you interpret that as a direct link or not, that is up to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u107	Companies prefer to pay less taxes. That would be a good time to say: "How unfortunate for you, Mrs Cornelissen. We pay that tax here for education and all kinds of useful things." But what's happening is something completely different. Too soon we are under pressure here, completely rutian. The Prime Minister just said that in October, Unilever's shareholders' meeting will decide. That's Unilever's shareholders' meeting. You stand here behind the arms of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and not behind them. You have been blackmailed, you do not want to be open about it, and instead you try to bring that blackmail on us. You say that we are taking an irresponsible risk if we are not convinced of this measure. Poor Segers had all misunderstood; apparently that measure could well be removed from the coalition agreement without the cabinet falling. He was blackmailed by you, too. And you are now trying to do the same with the Dutch parliament: a chain blackmail. That's not democratic. That you're convinced is one thing. But you are not supposed to tarnish this debate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u108	That whole reasoning just doesn't add up. I just said that in my previous answer. I think Shell's been very open about it. Of course, we keep other companies that are not open about it. We can't share that with other people here, we can't. In the end, it's always a trade-off that makes you a coalition. I do think that Unilever's shareholders' meeting should play a role. What we do here is not without value and without potential consequences. We all have to bear that in mind. It is not that the opposition has no responsibility for anything. He has responsibility, too. One of Unilever's major shareholders said last week: "Yes, we are following that debate in the Netherlands. We're worried about it. We may now vote against." So that has effect, you can't deny it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u109	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u110	It's always nice to be reminded of your responsibility. Thank you for that. I take it pretty seriously. Our responsibility here is to make democratic decisions. And this is a bad plan. A bizarre measure, someone called it. It is a bad plan; I think it is not only, but also the people who have learned it, who control government policy, the economists who deal with it, the Central Planning Office that says: it has no effect. It's a bad plan. You're wasting your responsibility. You have a responsibility to the Netherlands. This should be spent here, and you cannot place Unilever's shareholders' meeting above democratic decision-making here. You have become convinced; that is your right. You have not allowed us to spend the money wisely. You're at a crossroads. You work for all the Dutch, not Unilever. This means that if one or two companies have threatened you with departure, you must say: annoying for you, there is the door. This is the last chance to take that right turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u111	First of all, there are all kinds of suggestions in Mr Asscher's question, which I leave entirely at his disposal. They're really on him. Secondly, political considerations must ultimately be taken into account. That's what Louis Asscher and I have been allowed to do for the past five years; now we're doing it with this cabinet. Choices must be made in scarcity. Based on all the information you have, you have to make sensible decisions. We have come to the conclusion that we are taking too great a risk in keeping a few of the largest companies we have here and leaving opportunities that arise from Brexit, if we do not take this measure. That is ultimately a political choice. We don't do that for those companies, we don't do that for those logos, but we end up doing it for all the people in this country who work hard in the public sector and in business and who tax us all so that we can make sure we have this fantastic country. I've said it a couple of times: it's always You will have to do everything: both the public sector and public finances, as well as a strong business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u112	Mrs. Marijnissen. I call Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u113	I'd like to get on with it. The Prime Minister said that at the beginning of 2017 he actually realized that this might be a very good idea. Now I wondered if the Prime Minister would recognize the following text: "I think that, especially at a time like this, there should be a signal that the Netherlands is serious about improving the tax environment. Now send out the message that we are abolishing the dividend tax."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u114	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u115	No. This has been said in the debate on the Autumn note in 2008 by a fellow party member of Mr Rutte. It was Mr. Weekers in 2008.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u116	Well, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u117	So I do understand that when you ended up in the Tower in 2010, Mr. Rutte, Shell and Unilever were on your doorstep in a few weeks' time. I can see why they were excited. I can understand why they came to see you in 2010 to ask you this. Then again, my question to you is what you said to them. Did you say "no, it's not gonna happen" or did you say "boys, it's not gonna happen now, but it's gonna happen"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u118	I have said that the cabinet has no intentions in this direction. The fact that Mr Weekers argued in favour of it in 2008 is true, as early as 2005/2006, the Secretary of State for Finance here in the Chamber finally argued in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. That's not new.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u119	Just for the clarity, because there are still pieces coming out of the conveyor belt. There were no memories at first, and then there were. There were no memos at first, and then there were. There weren't any pieces at first, and then there were. So I predict this will continue for a while. But the Prime Minister is now clearly saying the following. He's been at the Tower since 2010. Shell and Unilever visited regularly. The subject of dividend was on the agenda and was indeed always well prepared by its officials. Is he saying that he could not in any way have given rise to the idea among those two companies that the dividend tax under his regime could still be paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u120	That wasn't in the Rutte I and Rutte II coalition agreements, was it? So how could I do that? On what grounds?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u121	It wasn't in the VVD's election program either, much mentioned here, but it was taken care of at one time anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u122	Of course, that's not a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u123	The question remains. I have not heard any good arguments from Mr Rutte today either. His fibers, actually, that's the only thing that's left standing here. My question is how far the Prime Minister is prepared to go with his personal project. It was just mentioned on Facebook by Mr Segers on 24 August, in which he stated that the Christian Union was not in favour of abolishing the dividend tax and was not in favour of abolishing the dividend tax, but that it was part of the agreement and would otherwise mean "cease coalition." Is the Prime Minister willing to go that far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mr Segers himself has taken away the suggestion that you might read in it that it would be the end of the coalition in the sense that it was threatened with it. That's one. Secondly, this is a coalition intention because we consider it important, especially for all the people for whom Mrs Marijnissen and I are holding this debate. These are all companies in the Netherlands, but certainly all people working in the public sector. It is important that we are a strong country where there is enough money available to invest in all those sectors. Good tax revenues are needed for this. Indeed, I say to Mr Wilders, we do not like to have these taxes too high. We like to have them down; that's what we're doing. But you do need taxes to eventually finance what we all consider important in this country. In this mix, in the opinion of this cabinet/coalition, we run too high a risk that these companies could leave. Mrs Marijnissen should agree with that. Last Wednesday, Mr Buma told her that her party was willing to invest 11 billion in taking over Organon. This is 2 billion a year, that was 11 billion one time. That is why I have a counter-question. At the time, she was willing to invest 11 billion in Organon. I remember the SP saying, "Let's nationalize it." That was 11 billion. That didn't happen back then, but well, let's say we did. Surely it is logical that you keep asking yourself as a politician: how can we keep this kind of beautiful big companies for this country and how can we attract other companies when there are risks of them leaving?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u125	The prime minister returns to Oss and Organon. I would like to point out to him that taking over a company's shares once in order to ensure that it can stay in the Netherlands is really something fundamentally different than 2 billion or perhaps more tax cuts for companies, every year. That's not comparable at all, is it? And then my question was, but the Prime Minister doesn't answer: how far is he willing to go? Obviously, he's here alone today. Support in society is crumbling, among civil servants there was no support, among economists there was no support and in the coalition the support is crumbling. I would also like to hear it from Mr Segers himself when he comes back to that. Anyway, I'm curious to hear the Prime Minister's answer to that question. Another measure has disappeared from the coalition agreement: working under the minimum wage for disabled workers. Suppose the Christian Union says: we come back to abolishing the dividend tax, because that was not a good idea. Does Mr Rutte say that he is not risking the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u126	I am defending the 2019 budget of this cabinet, of this coalition. That's what I'm doing here. Mrs Marijnissen asks questions like Dan, but I am defending what we have proposed here through the Throne speech, on Prince's Day and in all the pieces that are there. And 11 billion for Organon is still five and a half years of abolishing dividend tax, for one company!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u130	Whether you like it or not. Let me take one more shot. Could I ask the Prime Minister whether he knows how corporate profits, the profits of companies in the Netherlands have developed in, say, the last fifteen years or so? Does he also know what happened in the same fifteen years with the real disposable income of people, so what Dutch people had to spend out of their wallets over the past fifteen years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u131	I don't have those facts ready here. If Mr Wilders had asked that question on Wednesday, I would have prepared the answer. I don't have the exact state here right now. It can't be. I'm sure he's got them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u132	Then I will help you and tell you that the real disposable income of the Dutch has not or hardly increased over the past 15 years. They're shocking numbers. What they have in purchasing power, so what they can actually spend, has, I believe, increased by 2% to 3% between 2002-2003 and 2017. Business profits have doubled at the same time. The company profits have therefore doubled. Let me mention again the two companies you are doing all this for. Shell's profits doubled to 15.8 billion in 2017. Unilever's profits increased by 17% to 6.5 billion according to 2016 figures. Then I'm talking about one year, 2016-2017 and 2017-2018. In other words, the companies you are doing it for have doubled their profits in the last 15 years and even doubled in the last few years to 16 billion and 6.5 billion. That ordinary Dutchman has actually got almost nothing in the past fifteen years or 1% or 2% or maybe 3%, in fifteen years! My question to the Prime Minister is: how fair do you think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u133	There's another question behind this. The fact that Mr Wilders finds that real disposable income remained roughly the same during that period says something about the enormous crisis that we experienced in 2008-2009 and about the extremely difficult measures that we had to take to get the country out of that crisis. Now we are one of the fastest growing economies in the Western world. We grow twice as fast as Belgium, we grow twice as fast as France. As a result many people are getting to work, it is now possible to increase purchasing power slightly. But Mr Wilders is right: that image shows that, as a society, we have made a journey through the desert to finally get out of that crisis. Now it is important that you as a country ensure that you have a strong public sector and that you have beautiful companies, small, medium and large. But also those big companies. They are responsible again for major decisions on investment and employment and for hiring a whole circle of small and medium-sized enterprises around them. So here too, it's en-and. It's the purchasing power of the people in the country, and it's making sure you keep big companies. The companies mentioned by Mr Wilders are large, internationally-functioning companies, which are of value to settle in the Netherlands, so that they will eventually reinvest some of the big profits in Dutch society. I also used the argument of home bias, as they call it so beautiful: the fact that you make decisions mainly in the direction of the country where you are based.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u134	There is really no way to tie this up. It's not the beginning of an answer yet. We didn't come out of the crisis together. What are those hollow phrases? The companies have seen their profits double in the Netherlands in recent years. The Shell, for which you're doing it, with all your measures, to 16 billion last year. Unilever received 17% and went to 6.5 billion. Those companies didn't pay for the crisis. Those companies are richer, with double profits coming out of the crisis! Do you know who paid for the crisis? Not the companies; those were the ordinary people! They've barely gotten a penny all 15 years. It is the pensioners who have seen that their pension is not linked or sometimes even reduced. Those are the people, the normal people who paid for the crisis. And what are you doing now? You don't say: well, things are getting better economically, you know what, I'm gonna set that right; I'm gonna ask the companies a little bit more, and I'm gonna give that to the people. You're doing exactly the opposite. You say: those companies that have gained more profits, I give them even more; lower profit tax, less dividend tax. And the citizens who have paid everything, I give them a higher premium again for health care and a higher energy bill. You have to do it exactly the other way around! Shame on you not to!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u135	This dividend tax does not benefit these companies. It is a misunderstanding what Mr Wilders is saying there. You do this to ensure that these companies do not move away because of a problem they have at another level, with their investment capacity and their business value, for which the dividend tax is distorting. Removing would be harmful, especially for employment in the Netherlands. Let me now turn to the first point in Mr Wilders' speech. There he is right and I insist that we have made that journey through the desert with all of us. We entered a crisis as a country in 2008 and 2009, and we all got out of it. I have already said it at the beginning of my speech: that is not the merit of politics in the first place. First of all, it is the merit of all the people, all the hard-working people in the country, all the people who wanted to work but lost their jobs because of the crisis, all the people who rightly enjoy a well-earned pension. All of us have done so and I am proud that we have done so and that I am allowed to be Prime Minister of such a country, where we are now seeing, because we have done so, so many new jobs and such growth of our economy that we are growing twice as fast as the surrounding economies. This will also enable us to reduce burdens, including for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u136	No, you are not the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, you are at most the Prime Minister of Rutteland, the country where large companies, who have seen their profits double in recent years, still... Then it's not an answer to say that money doesn't go to the companies? That lower income tax, which you also book 2 or 3 billion for, goes directly to the companies. This dividend tax may go to the shareholders, but it also benefits the companies. So the money you're giving now gives you to the companies that have already seen their profits double. And the people at home, they don't enjoy their retirement at all, Mr. Rutte! What kind of world do you live in? They see that pensions have been cut or frozen. People who are now getting a new rent increase that they can't afford. People who haven't gotten anything in the last 15 years. And now you're giving it back a crumb or you're taking it again. I say it again: come from Rutteland, go to the Netherlands and give the people their money back!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u137	The story of profit tax, the so-called corporation tax, is not the whole story either. It is true that you are right in saying that the rate is falling, but if you tell the whole story, you have to show that the base is being widened. This will eventually lead to additional burdens for companies. The generic discount limit, the limitation of loss relief, the minimum capital rule for banks and insurers, which allows you to lower that rate, but broaden the basis on which you raise. This reduction in GDP does not, on balance, lead to a reduction in charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr Klaver, no repetition of previous questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr President, I come with a very different question. Please, this doesn't make any sense at all! Those big companies all dodged the taxes. That whole corporation tax thing was as leaky as a basket. Then we're gonna fix that with each other and we're gonna say, "Bummer, now they're gonna have to pay more taxes, let's give them a tax discount." That's not about anything, is it? The Prime Minister has dark clouds hanging over this Chamber and says: the big companies are leaving. Look at Switzerland. Unilever's main competitor might be Nestlé. Switzerland is a country we are competing with. It is perhaps the most beautiful country in Europe. There they have 35% dividend tax. In 2011, the Swiss Government proposes to reduce the burden on that large company. They lost the referendum. Where is Nestlé currently located, so I ask the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u140	In Vevey. Then to the corporate tax story. The point made by Mr Wilders was another point. The point Mr Wilders made was that by reducing corporate tax we also reduce the burden on companies. My answer was: that's not true. It is true that part of this broadening of the basis comes from the grounds that Mr Klaver has put forward. This is also linked to the whole business package. We are now introducing a withholding tax in such a way that we will restrict activities that do not lead to jobs and real activities, such as letterboxes, for example. Corporate tax and dividend tax are also part of a much wider package of relief for SMEs, with all kinds of measures to reduce the wrong type of activity, for example the letterbox companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u141	For people who don't know exactly where Vevey is: it is very close to Lausanne on Lake Geneva in Switzerland. That's the country where the dividend tax is 35%. That is the country where, in a referendum, the burden on large multinationals, such as Nestlé, was reduced in 2011. And Nestlé's still in Switzerland. That's where those dark clouds, the predictions that the company was leaving, didn't come true. How can the Prime Minister insist that we must insist that this is the issue of dividend taxation in order to keep our business environment in order? I don't hear anyone here saying we shouldn't do anything about the locational climate at all. Even Mr Van der Staaij, who is critical of the dividend tax, is asking for alternatives. What can you do? This prime minister is stuck in his sacred faith in dividend taxation. Switzerland, Mr Rutte, Switzerland, 35%! There's a company that's even bigger than Unilever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u142	A few of the largest Dutch companies are not Dutch-Swiss, but Dutch-British. There is an imbalance with Britain, an uneven playing field. The most important element in this is the dividend tax. That hasn't been a problem for many years. That all went well. However, we are now in a unique situation. I outlined that whole mix about an hour ago. I will not repeat what is unique about this time frame. That abolition doesn't go to the companies. It is not a relief for these companies, but it helps companies to better protect themselves from large acquisitions resulting from the fact that there is so much cheap money in circulation at the moment. The risk we take if we do not take this measure is not for the cabinet to take it and neither is the coalition. If you do this, you risk letting some of the biggest companies leave and not using Brexit's chances. It weakens the structure of our economy. The Netherlands is the largest of the medium-sized economies in Europe. We are much and much smaller than the largest economy. We are five times smaller than Germany, four times smaller than England and four times smaller than France. If the Netherlands wants to maintain the unique mix of a much smaller economy with the establishment of a few of the largest companies, you have to constantly look critically at the mix of all your tax measures. Perhaps in the future there will also be companies who want to settle here. This measure is considered necessary by the Cabinet to mitigate the risks associated with the departure of some of the largest companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u143	Finally, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u144	If I need generalities about the economy, I'll check Wikipedia. I'm asking a question about Switzerland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u145	Don't be annoyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u146	There they have 35% dividend tax. There is still one of the largest companies. Yesterday, no Wednesday in the first term, I was talking about the protection structures for companies against takeovers. That's what this cabinet is proposing. Nothing's worked out yet. There's nothing in the Economic Affairs budget for this year. There are so many other ways to protect our business. The whole Chamber is convinced of that, I think, and he wants to participate in it. There is one thing that does not apply, and this Prime Minister is going through with it. That's what he does. This morning I had to take a toddler to a school trip and he wasn't pushing as much as the Prime Minister is doing right now. Dramen that the dividend tax must continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u147	We just made an appointment about the language, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u148	That's because of the excellent upbringing with the Klaver family and those beautiful pajamas. Let me say something about the substance. He is right to ask how we protect companies. That question was also asked in the first period. This might be a good time to answer him. At the moment, there are different legal pathways to do so. The legal reflection period is intended to ensure a balanced weighting of stakeholders' interests and long-term value creation. This proposal affects European law, and we must be realistic in that regard. That is why we have asked for information from the Council of State on this issue. We have now received it and it is incorporated in the draft legislative proposal that we have now prepared. It's still classified because we still have to make it public. We are now processing this information and think that the bill can be consulted in the autumn. So we're on top of that. We needed this information because of the risk that it was contrary to European law. Two. We are working on the specific protection of the vital sectors. This is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. We are currently in the process of making the sector analysis. That's gonna take time, 'cause you're gonna have to do it thoroughly. In anticipation of that, we have announced for telecommunications a bill on unwanted control of telecommunications. We sent a letter on 18 April stating that the bill was brought before the Council of State. Meanwhile, the advice is back and we are looking at how to incorporate it into the bill so that we can send it to the Chamber. So we're working along three lines. Mr Klaver's question forced me to take a very precise look at this. My image is that it's being steamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u149	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u150	At that point, I am glad to hear that the greatest possible speed is being put behind it. We cannot deal with this legislation in the Chamber soon enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u151	I am pleased that the question about Switzerland is indeed about dozens of companies and about 35%. But I have another point. If I were Prime Minister, I wouldn't be so scared by a company that might leave. I'm looking at my own congregation, Eindhoven. A few years ago, DAF went bad, and Philips threatened to leave. Philips also left and look what happened to Eindhoven. Just when you make sure there is a good locational climate, you can see that even after pulling away from such a company, a city can become the economic engine of the Netherlands. Why are you so attached to this dividend tax? Why not ensure that other measures are taken, so that companies do not want to stay in this beautiful country because of the dividend tax but because of other reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr Krol rightly points to the Eindhoven region. It was once named the smartest region in the world. At the moment, the economy of Eindhoven is growing much faster than the Dutch economy. So that's really a success story. Many companies, such as MSP and ASML, have emerged from the old Philips, which of course still plays a very important role. Around that is another very furry collar of small companies that are supplying to these large companies. That's fantastic. That is precisely why, as a cabinet, you have to ask yourself: what should we do to promote this? This is where the reduction of the low Vpb rate comes in, the reduction of the high Vpb rate, but again, with the necessary basic broadening, and the measures we are taking to reduce the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. But, of course, in this mix, we must also ensure that we remove the unequal playing field with England for some of the largest companies that are uniquely British-Dutch and for those that might come to the Netherlands through the Brexit. It is a mix of all these measures, with the abolition of the dividend tax for Eindhoven probably having less direct effect. I agree with Mr Krol. We have other measures for that, so we all have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u153	My question remains: please, Prime Minister, look at other measures than the dividend tax, because you have no support for that. The majority of the population does not want it and it is not necessary. Be inventive now, think about solutions to get a lot of companies to the Netherlands in another way. Take the example of Eindhoven: it is possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u154	That was my discussion just now with Mr Van der Staaij. Of course you can do other things with that 2 billion. You can put the money into lowering the Vpb rate or into other things. The point is that the whole specific problem of companies with a British-Dutch structure, plus the Brexit companies that want to come from England to the Netherlands and experience an uneven playing field with us, is not addressed. The dividend tax is not a relief for those companies. You solve another problem for them, which increases your chances of them staying or coming. So you have to see it in a mix of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u156	I had Mr van der Staaij's question about the locational climate. He said that many entrepreneurs face a higher tax claim about past profits. This includes the fact that entrepreneurs with their own e.g. corporate tax pay the profits in their e.g. and the box 2 tax on the distribution of these profits. We're lowering the Vpb rate now. As a result, the dga, managing director-large shareholder, will pay less tax on its profits in 2019. Now dgas can choose to make profits or reinvest. Only if a managing director-major shareholder decides to make a profit, will he be liable for that box 2 tax. It will not be increased until 2020. If they choose to pay out those profits from the past, they can do so in 2018 and 2019 at the current rate of 25%. They therefore have an action perspective and can prevent past profits from being taxed at the increased box 2 rate from 2020. If they choose to reinvest those profits, then of course they have the advantage of lowering the Vpb rates. Mr President, that is in response to Mr Van der Staaij's question. If you'll allow me, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u157	Any other questions at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u158	... honestly, because there have been a lot of interruptions, I have been able to answer a lot of other questions at implication. So I'm done with this cup as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u159	Well, not as far as Mr. Klaver is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u160	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u161	Do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u162	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u163	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u164	The Prime Minister is here on a collision course with society and on a collision course with the opposition. He may think: I will be done after this Prince's Day and after the votes in the Second and First Chambers. But yesterday, almost the entire opposition announced that there would be a recovery bill. He didn't get rid of it, even though he's running it through both chambers right now. Is the Prime Minister prepared to look together with the opposition at what alternatives there are, whether we can get out of this collision course, which, in my opinion, doesn't make anyone any better, and whether we can see how the location climate can actually strengthen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u165	The suggestion in the question, yes. To see how we can strengthen the locational climate, sure. Anyway, this coalition is defending this measure, so I don't think we're getting anywhere on that particular point. We are defending this measure in order to abolish the dividend tax for the reasons that we have had a substantive debate over the last hour and a half, I believe, in which we have weighed and looked at the arguments from all sides. There was no complete convergence of positions yet, but we may not have had that hope. It was very useful, I think, but that measure stands for the cabinet. Mr Klaver's broader question is: do you want to talk to us about the wider issue of the investment climate? Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u166	My question wasn't that broad. My question was, of course, about the dividend tax. There is no support for that in society. There is no broad support for that here in the Chambers. We have had a strong debate on this, not just now, but actually all over the past year. The high risk is that this will continue and that there will therefore be uncertainty, including about the dividend tax. I am actually trying to find a Prime Minister here who says: what is needed for the Netherlands is political stability; I dare to doubt the usefulness of the dividend tax, I dare to talk about it with the opposition and I dare to look at alternatives, because ultimately political stability is the most important thing for the Netherlands. We could get them back together again if we talk about this subject and if the dividend tax is no longer a sacred cow for this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u167	I would really like to say here: one step at a time. What we now have is a proposal from the cabinet. We're gonna see if there's any support for that in the Lower House and in the Senate. If all of that were true, it would go on. Then, of course, it is relevant that an opposition can submit own-initiative laws to take new cabinet measures. I'm here defending what the Cabinet is doing. I explained that if we don't do this, we're afraid, and we have reason to, that some of the biggest companies aren't gonna be here in a while and we're gonna lose the opportunities of the Brexit. I think this is bad for jobs in the Netherlands, for employment, just for the hardworking Dutch. It's not about those companies, it's about the people in the country. That is why I am defending this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u168	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u169	The opposition is not going to stop the resistance. The country's not gonna stop the resistance. This Prime Minister is organizing his own opposition quite well. At least I did not see the outstretched hand that the cabinet has been talking about for a whole year in this debate. I'll stick it out. Let's talk about it. Let's see how we can come up with alternatives to dividend taxation, so that we can finally provide that good locational environment. The only thing we're getting here is no, no, no, no, that's actually not possible. We are arguing here and the Prime Minister is listening, but he is not prepared to meet the opposition at one point when it comes to dividend taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u170	That is a bit of a distortion of the debate, because we have only talked about one subject so far. I thought it appropriate to begin the debate on this subject. Otherwise you could say "oh, he'll stop it after the live broadcast" or something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u171	I'm going to see Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u172	But I told you about what I said. We are defending that measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u173	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u174	Clover does raise an important point, namely: where is the outstretched hand now? You can say: yes, this is only one topic. But perhaps the Prime Minister understands that it has become quite a big subject. Even Kees van der Staaij is here asking if you wouldn't even think about another measure. If you stand up on an outstretched hand, isn't it fitting to say: I understand, there's still time, we take this back and here's the outstretched hand? That you're convinced, that's obvious. But wouldn't that be nice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u175	The tricky thing about this is that we are talking about one subject for a very long time now. Mr Van der Staaij asks: can't you spend the 2 billion otherwise? I fully understand that and I answer that question: yes, I can. But the dilemma is, as in technology, whether it solves the big risk. Are you sparing, or do you have a solution to the big risk that some of the biggest companies could leave and you wouldn't take the chances of Brexit? You don't solve that, because you have to take this particular measure. So we're defending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u176	Finally. We haven't seen the Prime Minister's outstretched hand. Apparently he disappeared in the pockets of the ordinary Dutch and now can be found under the tray with champagne on the Zuidas. Yes! There is no movement towards the opposition. You're laughing at it, but I find it extremely sad. It's chain blackmail. No outstretched hand. You buried yourself in your own right. I wonder how the rest of this day and the rest of this period are going with this coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u177	We've been talking about one measure for quite some time now. I accept that. That's what I saw coming, and I've chosen very consciously to start it. Again, I could have done it tonight, but I thought it was lame, too. And then you would have said, "Now it's outside the live broadcast." This big subject snowed a bit below in Wednesday's comments, because there appeared to be so many other things. It seemed fair to me to give it the attention it deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u178	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u179	So that's why I started it. I'm defending that measure. And further, we're talking a lot of topics today. Let's see if there are any topics where we can find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u180	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u181	Maybe that's more difficult on this subject. But that also has to do with the specific technical problem. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second issue: purchasing power and social security. There is a question put by Mr Dijkhoff of the VVD on the labour market balance. He is right to say that our labour market is changing so that we have to ask ourselves how we are dealing with new issues. He says, "Shouldn't you take measures to offer new assurances?" That is also what the Council of State says in the opinion. I agree with the Council of State and Mr Dijkhoff. Right now, I'm fine. Unemployment is low and more and more people are at work, including the elderly. But we must ensure that this labour market is future-proof. We're not gonna solve all that today, and that's why I'm gonna mention a few things. In December last year, the Minister for Social Affairs sent a letter explaining how we are moving towards a new balance sheet on the labour market. Because maintenance is also needed in the short term. So that's what we're working on. The big issue at the moment is the division of labour. The labour market has lost its balance and is now struggling for both employers and employees. The cabinet believes that many responsibilities for the employment relationship have been invested too unilaterally with employers. Anyone who deals with his employees properly now suffers from competitive disadvantages from companies that come up with useful structures to reduce wages and spread risks. Permanent workers, flex workers and zzp'ers have thus unintendedly become competitors of each other. The prospect of a permanent job is much further away than in the past. You can rightly ask the question of what a permanent job is. But we all feel that the feeling of a permanent job is appreciated by a lot of people. That is why we have taken a number of measures. Firstly, we are working on the Labour Market Act in balance. That is all in the coalition agreement; perhaps I can refer briefly to that. In addition, measures should be taken in the area of payment of wages. And we are looking at the whole issue of self-employment. These are all short-term measures. How are you going to deal with this because that was behind Dijkhoff's question and the Council of State's opinion on tomorrow's developments, which are now beginning: digitisation, robotisation and globalisation? How can you make jobs and tasks change? Some will disappear, new ones will join. How can you best shape the impact on how you organize work, especially in and between companies? Because it is very real: technological change makes it easier to organise work in a non-traditional way. Look, for example, at something that really is of this time: the so-called platform works. At the same time, you can also see that the social position of some of the workers is changing. On average, the workforce is highly educated, and this raises the question of whether some workers have a greater need to make more choices themselves as to how they organise their work. What does that mean for the way in which we share risks and organise protection? We need to start that conversation. These are big, broad political questions. I don't have the answers to that here, I'm telling you straightaway. They touch on a number of fundamental principles of labour law, which touch on a number of fundamental points of social security. That is why Wouter Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs, has announced a committee to look into this. He will inform the Chamber about this this autumn. Then we need to talk about it more closely. I shall come back a little later on to the point where I thought Mr Dijkhoff had sufficient training for later. Then there is the question of Mr Asscher's own-initiative law. I figured he'd want to ask a question about that, so I'll come up with that right away. How does the Cabinet view the enforcement of equal pay for men and women? There is, I understand, a bill from the Labour Party with the groups of GroenLinks, the SP and 50PLUS. I refer to the equal pay initiative proposal for men and women. The bill is now in the internet consultation, then, I think, goes to the Council of State or is already there, but comes back here formally at some point. Then we will take a formal position on this. Let me say this now, without responding to the legislative proposal: tackling the pay gap and pay discrimination are part of what the Cabinet is doing in the area of labour market discrimination. Tamara van Ark, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, informed the Chamber in November 2018. The main letter of the previous cabinet, already dated 19 June 2018, deals with the pay gap and pay discrimination. I would also like to mention increasing awareness of the task of works councils on this issue, supporting sectors with tools and current knowledge on how to achieve much more neutral remuneration measures and, of course, promoting wage transparency. Now we are working on concrete proposals, what we are doing together with the Foundation of Labour, to arrive at an implementation plan. So we're already doing that, and we're working on the bill. That's what we're waiting for, and then we'll respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u182	For the table of contents: this is the social security block, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u183	No, I have a few other questions. A question has also been asked about people with disabilities. As is well known, we want more people with disabilities to get to work and to get to work in a visible way, so also in society. We have to find it normal that, whether you have all the faculties completely mentally and physically, or there are limitations, we are all equally valuable and in this country are all fully equally valued. There are a few things that need to be done. For this, it is necessary to make it easier for employers to employ them when people have a disability. It is necessary to ensure that it also pays the people with that restriction to get to work. And you have to make sure that the employers and the people involved can find each other. Well, we've been looking at an instrument in the government agreement, the pay dispensation. Tamara van Ark, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, cabinet and coalition have considered that this is not the right route. At the same time, it would generate money, that we would invest back in sheltered workplaces. So that money isn't there if you don't take the pay dispensation measure. We now want to find other ways to ensure that as many people as possible with disabilities get to work, because that objective is right on track. That is why she has announced a broad offensive with cabinet and coalition. With that 500 million the target was 20,000 extra sheltered workplaces, eventually we want to try to get to 30,000. The debate on this will continue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u184	I'd like to know if you're almost done with your answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u185	No, I have more questions. A lot of questions have been asked about social security. Why don't I just finish that one anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u186	Yes. I suggest you do that. Please continue. You will have the opportunity to intervene, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u187	I have a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mrs. Marijnissen, you will really have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u189	I come to the question of the Christian Union about pension reform. I have just said something about this in the debate on the investment climate, in response to questions about the purchasing power of pensioners. There is a tremendous amount of work being done on the design of a new pension contract, including within the Economic and Social Council. Of course, there has been a lot of discussion about this in recent years. We still have good hopes that the social partners will come up with an opinion in the short term, but I do not think it would be helpful to disturb that brooding chicken now by lighting up parts of the feathers and looking at that egg. Then GroenLinks' question about the injustice in the pension system that people who have done long and hard work have to work longer. That is a recognised problem. The problem here is, however, that we have also looked at this with the social partners, and it is extremely difficult to define objectively what "heavy professions" can mean. We have seen this together with the social partners. Are you looking at physical or psychologically heavy? What's a hard job? How do you select people with a heavy occupation? Et cetera. That's a well-known discussion. We have often had them here in all kinds of debates. This has actually led to a joint conclusion from the social partners, namely that they are now primarily committed to ensuring a sustainable commitment, for longer working lives. Both employers and employees need to invest in this longer period of work. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that the cabinet would also contribute to this by looking at the obstacles that can be removed, for example in the case of part-time pensions or generational pact schemes. We will also do so in the context of the broader set of agreements that are being worked on for our retirement and at all our old age provision. This heading also includes the question of the SGP whether the truck driver, the agent, the soldier, the nurse and also the elderly with a small pension will really notice that things are getting better now. We know the purchasing power picture is positive. 96% are improving. Over the past fifteen years these figures have been very positive, but of course the Netherlands thinks: first see and then believe. That's what you see in the tests, and I understand that very well. The fact is, it's always a mix of all kinds of things. For example, you never know for sure whether there will be an increase in wages, but you are seeing an upward trend in the collective wage agreements that are being concluded. But one thing we have in hand here is that we can determine one part of the increase in purchasing power, namely the burden of burdens. We know that we are going to reduce the burden in steps. For example, the marginal disk rate at which most people pay taxes goes down to 38.1%. As is well known, the general tax discount and the labour discount are both increased by more than €100. All this, of course, also in conjunction with wage increases, leads to an improvement of 1.5%, with hundreds of euros going up to an average of €500 to be spent more on people. But there are uncertainties in it. We just need to be real about that. But also look at 2015. We then went through a large relief package in the Chamber with broad support. We also saw that in that mix the load relief was ultimately very dominant. As a result, this increase in purchasing power is also more likely than if it should result purely from the increase in collective bargaining wages, which are again rising again. In this context, Mr Krol asked about the calculation of purchasing power for older people. The purchasing power figure mentioned by Mr Krol is the median purchasing power. Calculations by the Central Planning Bureau show that 97% of pensioners' purchasing power is expected to increase next year. These figures take into account household income sources and specific circumstances. The Nibud then uses a different system of housing with 100 example households, including 16 households with pensioners. These are simplified models, in which specific arrangements, such as the rent surcharge, and the assets, which the Central Planning Bureau takes into account in its purchasing power calculation, remain out of the picture. The Nibud also shows a positive picture for pensioners. According to the Nibud, the increase in purchasing power can reach 2.3%. The question is what we think of the wage requirement of the FNV. The cabinet never really speaks about that. We have said a number of times in general that, if profits increase in this way, it is obvious that collective agreements will also increase. That's what we're seeing right now. So if I'm asked, "do you repeat that call?', Then I say: it is not necessary at the moment, because I see it happening. We must, of course, take some measure, so that we do not become entirely responsible, as a political act, for the free wage formation between employers and employees in the private sector. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about the single-earners: what can we expect from the cabinet in this respect? What you see from the figures is that one earners will be a little better off next year than other groups. That is where something is made up of the differences that have arisen in the past. This is due, for example, to the introduction of the dual-disk system. Then it matters less whether an income is earned by one or two persons. In addition, it is due to increasing the care allowance for couples and increasing the phasing-out limit in the child-related budget for couples. These cases reduce the difference in tax burden between the single earners and the two earners. There is also a request from the Chamber to the Minister for Social Affairs, together with the Secretary of State for Finance, who is behind me here, to examine the long-term possibilities for reducing these pain points, for example, the marginal pressure for a earner. Then there was a question about VAT. How does it work in the border area? Mr Krol asked that question. How's it gonna work out there? The risk is natural, but we must also note that the price level for food and non-alcoholic beverages in Belgium and Germany is generally higher than in the Netherlands. Even after the increase in the reduced VAT rate, the border effects are expected to be generally limited. Mr Van der Staaij asked the question about child benefit for 17-year-olds still living at home and attending higher education. This is a subject that has already been cut once, namely when dealing with the OCW Minister's bill on the halving of tuition fees. At that time, we chose not to do so because there is no 30 million coverage. It is true that we are looking at it in terms of content. That's what the Secretary of State for Social Affairs does. It will assess the substance of this issue and take it into account in the policy review of Article 1, which deals with the benefit to parents. Sorry, it's Article 10 of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. This idea is then mapped out together with other ideas and the budgetary consequences. Through me, the same Secretary of State spoke about the broad approach to debt. She, and with that the cabinet, is very busy working on it. On 14 June there was also a general consultation on the broad debt approach. It has been agreed to involve an organisation with expertise in the field of youth and debt in the elaboration of the relevant measures in the Comprehensive Debt Approach Action Plan. They are also invited to the partnership broad debt approach. Mr. Chairman. I believe that this also responds to the call made by the Christian Union on this issue. We know that it is important that people with disabilities, just like all of us, have opportunities to work in this society. It is also important that we try to help people with problematic debts, and that is certainly true for those who do not do so by debt, but who, because they have entered the problematic debt, really do not see how to get out at some point. At the same time, we must, of course, try to prevent it from repeating itself. That's part of the approach. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I think I have tried to answer the questions of purchasing power and social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u190	I would like to return with the Prime Minister to the issue of social services. Apart from the dividend tax, there is a lot of talk here about the public sector. That's where they hit hard. One of the sectors that is perhaps the most affected is social employment. Under the previous Rutte cabinet it has been said that there are no new people in the social employment services as they were. Does Mr Rutte recognise that this was a wrong decision? How does he look at that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u191	I thought that was a good decision, because the previous cabinet, as well as this coalition, has the vision that we need to ensure that people with disabilities have a chance to get to work as much as possible on the normal labour market. That will be very often with support in the back. In addition, of course, there is a social employment service which is now running backwards, but it is still there, but this is what we want in the end. This is our vision of helping people get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u192	Yeah, that's this cabinet's vision of "helping people get started." What does research prove? What does that vision lead to? Under Rutte II, 50% of people with disabilities were still at risk of getting a job, which has now fallen to 30%. Mr. Rutte, there are tens of thousands of people currently with disabilities who want to work very badly, but simply do not get to work. People for whom the work is so important. Work, which is such an important interpretation of our day, of our lives. Only 30% are currently eligible for employment. Again the question: do you acknowledge that this has been a wrong decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u193	No, because I suspect that Mrs Marijnissen puts a direct combination in her question, which could be put in part. But I do not think we should accept that. I have also often had this discussion with Mr Roemer, now with Mrs Marijnissen. I know that this issue is close to the Socialist Party, but also to me: how do we ensure that people with disabilities are normally employed in a society? However, with all due respect for the social workshops and thus also for the wider social employment provision, I have always objected to the fact that we have said too much to the rest of society: it is outsourced, it is parked at these institutions; we do not have to do that anymore. I think it is a task that we all have to ensure that we build a country in which it is normal that, if you have a restriction, you are working in normal business as much as possible. Yeah, we're gonna need some help with that. This is being worked on with the broad action plan and in all the other things we do, to ensure that people get to work and that it also pays to get to work, and that we ultimately bring people and businesses together. The companies want to, but they have of course often felt that this was well arranged in the Netherlands, that we do so in the social workshops. In the end, I did not think that was a socially desirable solution. I think it is better that people are also visible in normal society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u194	Once again, Mr Rutte's plan means that 50% of people with reduced working hours were still at risk of getting a job, but Rutte's plans now only 30%. Organizing work for people with disabilities is a matter of civilisation, isn't it? The Prime Minister is really using a drawing table reality here. That's paper. And it also sounds very nice that people get to work in regular companies. And yes, of course, for the people for whom that is possible and for whom that is possible, we must also organise it. Let us, as a government, do so, and I would like to call on him to do so. But he completely ignores the fact that for a very large group of people this social workplace can really be a solution. I would therefore ask him today to take explicitly into account in the forthcoming offensive that social work provision is being revived. I'd like to ask him if he's willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u195	Well, reinvigorating, that's not our policy. But of course I would like this part of the debate to work on us. I am not going to make that commitment here, because I find that contrary to the vision of the cabinet. But I think we find the same about the wider demand of 50% and 30%. Then let me make your request in a slightly adapted form, namely that we take this part of the debate into account in the further decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u196	The Prime Minister took on a lot of topics in this block. I'm about to get to the purchasing power of pensioners. He also mentioned the border region and its effects. I did ask him that question. But I also asked if we could get a study on this. I suppose the cabinet is willing to give it to us, because then we can see what's really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u197	I just read that study. That's much more convenient, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u198	No. You said it's limited, but I just want to know what the real consequences are. We're talking about millions of people living in the border region. You can already see that in the parking lots just across the border there are often more Dutch cars than Belgian or German. Are people, and especially businesses, going to have more brands in the region? Because every penny spent in Germany does not end up in your pot in terms of taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u199	I gave the answer I just gave, namely that we think it is limited. There will of course be another debate with the Secretary of State for Finance on this law. May I refer to that debate? He has, of course, also followed this part of the debate. He can therefore come up with a further basis. But I didn't want to start promising letters again right now. But if it is right, and if Mr Krol can live with it, we will involve it in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u200	With half a promise I am also very happy...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u201	Three quarters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u202	... certainly from this Prime Minister. Good. But whatever I wanted to talk about is the people with a small pension. They have not actually experienced purchasing power growth since 2008. People with a slightly higher pension rate have fallen to 12% in purchasing power growth. That's what the SER often calls richer elderly people, but it's about people who get €20,000 in retirement a year, and then you're really not a rich older person. When we talk about the Nibud figures, the Prime Minister takes out that one positive figure for a very small group, but all the other much more moderate figures than he predicts, the Prime Minister does not mention. My question is: what is he going to do for those people who have been lagging behind for many years, and yet all of them can see that the gap between them and workers is widening? What's he gonna do for these people? I'd like to be very specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u203	You can now see that in next year's plans. We are taking a whole series of measures that ultimately show that most pensioners are making progress in many cases. That is not, of course, a compensation for the loss of purchasing power sometimes suffered in recent years. Mr Krol is right about that. But you'll see for next year that you can. At the same time, while we have a wonderful pension system in the Netherlands, we need a major overhaul of the pension system. I think Mr Krol and I disagree on the instrument that he thinks is good and I do not, namely higher interest rates. I guess you'll take a risk for younger generations. I think there is another route, which is likely to bring Mr Krol and I back together again, namely the broader pension reform that is currently under way. This is done together with employers and employees, and especially between employers and employees in the Economic and Social Council, in order to ensure that the pension system is solid again for the next 50 years, and thus also the possibility of indexing pensions is a very important factor in the purchasing power of older people, and may even increase. But we'll have to see what comes out of it. We can't make any hard promises about that. Of course, it also depends very much on what comes out of all these conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u204	The period at the JOVD has helped this Prime Minister very much, because he is very useful in avoiding questions and talking about other issues: we are going to talk about these pensions. And yes, you are right: we differ on that. But I asked you: what are you going to do for the elderly who are still lagging behind and who are still experiencing a large purchasing power gap between them and workers? Then you say: look, 1.5% according to our figures for the coming year. You also had wonderful figures last year and the year before that you also had wonderful figures, but in reality they became zeros. Zeros. Zeros. People at home don't believe it anymore. If you say 1.5% now, that is no more than what you have promised in the last two years. So, in fact, you're not promising anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u205	That's not true. It is a fact that purchasing power predictions are surrounded by uncertainties. You can see from the purchasing power figures of recent years that older people often improved less than the workers. Luckily, that's different now. But, of course, we need to see what actually perpetuates that. But I would like to say one thing from which you could deduce that the probability that these figures are higher than in other years, and that is similar to the year 2016, after the 2015 budget: if there is a major reduction in the burden in the mix of measures, which is now in place, then the risk of an increase in purchasing power is greater than if it is largely dependent on the increase in collective wage costs. In recent years, you have seen that collective bargaining wages are lagging behind the growing profits that have been made. You can see that's more like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u206	Finally. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u207	So the Prime Minister admits that the promises he made over the past two years have not been fulfilled. That's profit. At least that's admitting something he said and what eventually didn't add up. But I ask the Prime Minister: what are you going to do for those people if they don't get better this year? Because you promise 1.5%, but we know these promises: they are simply not being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u208	The cabinet can't make purchasing power promises. We never do. What we're doing is getting it passed on to the Central Planning Bureau, given all the measures. What is the expectation of the Central Planning Office for the increase in purchasing power next year? That's a prophecy, an expectation. I can only say that in the years in which there is a major reduction in the burden, there is a greater chance that this forecast will come true than when it is mainly based on expectations of collective wage development, in addition to the fact that there are many other factors that are reflected in the purchasing power picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u209	We were just talking about a very big subject, the dividend tax. We are now talking about purchasing power, which is often also a collection, a sum sum, of all kinds of smaller measures. In this context, I welcomed the Prime Minister's response to the study funding that 17-year-olds will no longer receive when they go to higher education, while at the same time they will no longer receive child benefit for those children. For such a family, this can be cut down considerably and it can even affect access to higher education. I heard the Prime Minister say: we recognize that pain point and it's being looked at. But that has been said in the past. So my question is actually when we can expect more clarity about that. Could this still be the case for the budgets of Education or Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u210	It is planned that there will be a review of the policy, along with a number of other ideas and budgetary implications. Now the planning is that it's in the Chamber for the Christmas celebrations. That is therefore a substantive assessment. I do not want to make a commitment here that we are going to solve this, because that costs 30 million. That's weighted in the previous debate, when the bill is being dealt with, halving tuition fees. At the end of the day it was decided not to do this, because it lacks cover for it. So I can't make a promise here that we're gonna take care of this. I can only make a promise that we will assess it in substance. I might be able to see if Mrs Van Ark, when I look at her very nicely, would like to see if the timing for the Christmas celebrations could be speeded up a bit. Is that feasible? We're gonna try. Let's see if this works. It's a broad policy review. Of course, there are a lot of experts looking at it. So I can't make a firm commitment to this right now. Anyway, we've got the wish, the order down, and we're gonna see if it works out, if it's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u211	As I said, for the Labour Party, the key question in this debate is whether it is possible to do more with this coalition for the safety of people. This is actually a second point on which I would like to put a question to the coalition. I'm also asking you to take a serious look at it. One of the measures in the coalition agreement is that it is precisely that security of existence, the safety net, that can be secretly taken away from people. I am talking about the cuts in the disability scheme, which is part of social security. The bottom line is that every year about 1,000 Dutch people with a less high income, who are now healthy and perhaps looking, but who, for example, get cancer, brain disease or heart disease or become disabled for some other reason, under the current rules, they would be entitled to an invalidity benefit. They're gonna have to sell their house. They'll have to use their partner's ability if there is. That is an incredibly harsh measure. For next year, it will be 2 million in savings. I ask the cabinet to come back to that, to take back that measure and to remove that austerity. With all these thousands of Dutch people, it will be a quarter of a billion euros cut, in a time of prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u212	Mr Asscher refers to Mr Asscher, I would just like to check the measure we intend to take, namely to adjust the estimation decision in the WIA, from three times three suitable functions to one times nine. We'll talk about that. The result is a reduction in the influx into the WIA. That is the quarter of a billion that Mr Asscher rightly refers to. There are also measures to make it more attractive and easier to work. In addition, there is an intensification, rising to 35 million. That is the whole of what Mr Asscher is calling attention to. The government agreement allows the social partners to come forward with other proposals on payment of wages in the event of illness. It's running. That's a completely different discussion. Mr Asscher will think: where is he going now? But I am reporting this because the discussions on this issue have made a link with the WIA measures. The social partners have made a link with this. Those conversations are going on. So I cannot go into that now, because these talks are going on. But that means that, in the context of these talks, we are looking at whether there is anything possible from that link, but I cannot go beyond that. Nor can we now say that we are deleting this measure, because then we have a quarter of a billion hole. In response to questions from the Chamber on progress, the Minister for Social Affairs reported that the social partners had held consultations on measures in a broad sense which would improve the acceptance of the disease system and thus also of incapacity for work. He then asked him to give him some room for those measures. He'll inform the Chamber about it after the summer. It is now expected that this will be for the autumn recess. So that is also for the Social Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u213	Watch out for the effect of jargon. It's true: it's about the estimation decision, about less influx into the WIA. But it means that a bus driver or carpenter, who under the current rules, if he is affected by a horrible illness or an accident, would receive an invalidity allowance, which will not be paid later. I do not think that is acceptable. That can't be the intention. That really is the safety net that serves the security of life. I do not care at all under what pretext the measure is being deleted, for example because the social partners have asked for it. Then use that reason to delete it, but it needs to be deleted. It's urgent. It cannot wait until after the summer, because the budget has a budget cut of 5 million for this group. On the other hand, there is an additional expenditure of 3 million in aid, because that is where people end up. So it's net 2 million euros. We've just been looking for that outstretched hand for $2 billion. Well, I'd like to see it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u214	I have just given an answer to what I think Mr Asscher said: let's see how this consultation goes. Only he's now suggesting that no one would be in the WIA anymore. I heard him literally say that. That's about the bus driver. It depends entirely on it, but of course he's right. The opportunity is present...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u215	It's about 1,000 people a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u216	There is a chance that people will be less likely to get into the WIA. Indeed, for people entering the WIA in the future, more attention is being paid to suitable work in determining the degree of incapacity for work. That's the estimation decision. The requirement that there should be three functions that could be fulfilled by the person concerned and that each of these three be represented by at least three shall be filled in differently. That goes to the nine. Three times three is nine. Eventually, nine jobs will still have to be found in the future, but regardless of the distribution of the number of jobs. So Mr Asscher is right: that leads to less influx into the WIA. That can also affect people. He's really right about that. But it's not, and I thought I heard him say that we're shutting down the WIA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u217	Finally. This touches me deeply, because this really affects people. And I've expressed myself very precisely: it's about about 1,000 people. They don't know that yet, because they're not sick yet. That's what they're gonna be next year and the years after that. Those people would get benefits under the current rules, and soon they will have to go to welfare. 1,000 people! And we don't know who they are. None of us know what might happen to us in the future. I am asking the Prime Minister, and I really do not mean this lightly: take that off the table. I don't care what pretext, but you're really pulling the safety net out of a group of people who can count on it. They have paid contributions and contributed to this beautiful country. If that bad luck happens to you, you have to be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u218	I will stick to the answer: I hear what Mr Asscher is saying and there are talks going on in the polder. I understand from the Minister for Social Affairs that the austerity mentioned by Mr Asscher is not for next year, but for the following year, i.e. for 2020. The Social Affairs Minister often has those figures ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u219	I hear Mr Asscher saying something outside the microphone. No one can hear it, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u220	That doesn't matter for my answer, Mr. Chairman. My answer remains the same. I also agree with Mr Asscher that we should do this properly. We believe that this measure is appropriate. I hear very well what Mr Asscher is saying about it. And we're watching these conversations now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u221	I would like to return to a small debate between Mr Marijnissen and the Prime Minister. That was about people with a distance from the labour market. They're often hard to get to work. I agree with the Prime Minister when he says that this is a responsibility for all of us. We don't want to put these people away somewhere, but we want them in full because they're part of it. He said warm words about that. Everyone has a responsibility in that. If we look back with the question of where we can do that, then you can see that business delivers far more than the government. In addition, it was sometimes very difficult to get the figures from the government. The government just didn't deliver and stayed behind. I find that embarrassing. We have a responsibility in that. He rightly referred to the decision of Secretary of State Van Ark. I was happy about that, because the pay dispensation is off. But she didn't just cross a line, she said: we're going to attack too, because we're going to do work and make sure people get to work. Can I ask the Prime Minister to be truly transparent in the report on what the government is doing and on the responsibility that the government and local authorities have, to deliver butter to the fish and to adjust the leg? We must not only leave it to the business community, but also take it into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u222	Around, yeah. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u223	Yes, but Mr. Klaver has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u224	This is a big block with many different topics. Among other things, it was about retirement and people in heavy occupations. As far as I'm concerned, the Prime Minister missed that a little too quickly. He said: we cannot define a single definition and therefore we need to focus on sustainable employability. Look, I've always been committed to the AOW-age increase. But always with the promise that came with it: for heavy professions we find a solution. And he hasn't been around in about eight years. That is why we have said with conviction in the counter-budget we tabled with the other two left-wing parties that we should actually freeze that age at 66 years. Because if there is no customization possible, there must be a generic measure. That's not necessarily beautiful, but we need to take that step to help people who really can't go on. This is also an important demand of the trade unions. Is the Cabinet prepared to meet that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u225	The cabinet believes that there is a responsibility here for employers and employees. I think that this is a little too easy to put back to the government, often precisely by the employers, quite frankly in the sense of: solve this for us. The good employers were not too close, but also in the negotiations in the formation of this coalition I noticed that it was quite easy to get back to politics from the employers' point of view. While as we all get older, the problem is: how do you do it, especially for people with a heavy occupation, in a way where you can still enjoy a good old day after that? I find it too easy to say: let us then freeze the AOW age increase. I think it is logical that it ultimately follows the development of life expectancy. Mr Klaver also asked about the discussions on pensions. Well, that is a conversation that is now taking place between employers and employees and the ESC. I've said before that I'm trying to get as little feathers as possible to look at that egg, because I really think that's reducing the chances of a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u226	The AOW is the responsibility of the government. There are always people in which this sustainable employability is not something I really believe in. And tailor-made work is required there, but in one way or another no one here in the Lower House, no one in the Economic and Social Council and none of the employers and employees are able to come up with that customized work. So there is only one thing left: a generic measure to ensure that we go to those 66 years. I say that this is also an important starting point for the trade unions. In the meantime, it is also an important starting point for GroenLinks. Is the Prime Minister prepared to say here that the cabinet also wants to look at this? If you really want a pension agreement, which is about a lot more topics, then the cabinet will have to move on this point. Not employers will have to move, but the cabinet will have to move on this point. I don't need a commitment. I'm just asking if the Cabinet is willing to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u227	Mr Klaver asked about the discussions on a new pension system. I'm not gonna say anything about that. I'm defending cabinet policy here. Cabinet policy is as follows: With the two sides of industry, we have established that a system for the heavy-duty professions cannot be developed. The statement made in the formation was for me, and I leave it to my colleagues to say what they think about it: the employers were very enthusiastic: well, there is a point for the trade union movement; freeze the age of AOW. I believe that employers and employees, too, but primarily employers and employees, have the task of ensuring that people can continue to work with life expectancy, including in the heavy-duty professions. Organize that in a decent way. Get policies to train people instead of doing the heavy lifting. You can work with promotion and emotion. As an employer, you have a full toolbox available to do so. I find it too easy how the polder still puts that problem with the government. I'm not gonna say anything about the retirement interviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u228	I am asking about the government's commitment, not what employers and employees are discussing with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u229	Well, I just told you about that bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u230	It is about the use of the cabinet and I ask the cabinet to take a step further there. I think it's kind of shocking. Of course, more sustainable employability needs to be done. Of course, you shouldn't accept that people have been written off and couldn't continue working, even at a later age. But the hard fact is that for the last eight years, nothing has happened. You can find that ridiculous, you can find it a disgrace, it may be the fault of the employers, I want to go along with it all, but in the end the people who are in that business and who cannot stand up to their retirement age are the victims and not the employers, not this prime minister and not me. That is why I ask the Prime Minister not to say anything about the negotiations between employers and employees, but to say on behalf of the cabinet that he is prepared to think about the AOW age, because he sees that people are not being helped to retire in a healthy way at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u231	This is the third time you've asked the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u232	It's the same question, so I'll answer the same question. I'm gonna separate that from the retirement interviews, because we're not gonna say anything about that. I think this is too easy. It is really primarily the job of employers to ensure that people, even in heavy occupations and even as life expectancy increases, can grow old in a decent way. That was always the view of other parties here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u233	I have just said a few words about purchasing power in the interruptions in the dividend debate. The ordinary people in the Netherlands actually get nothing or hardly anything and have to pay to the big companies. I also said in my term on Wednesday that Prime Minister Rutte's promises about purchasing power in recent years have always proved to be lies and not to be true. But let's just assume for a moment what he's presented to us. Then I'll ask the Prime Minister if he knows the Nibud figures on purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u234	I have even answered that, to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u235	And do you think it's fair that, according to the Nibud figures, two-earned people with a child earning two tons per year are getting more than €1,600, while a couple with a child earning three-five thousand, that's about $300 going backwards? The difference between the many families who bring home a modal income and the people who have two tons together is almost €2,000 per year. Do you think that's fair, Mr. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u236	I have just said that Nibud uses example households, with many elements not included. If you want to compare apples with apples, we have to start from the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau, in which things like rent surcharge, wealth and other things have been processed. If you do that, you can see that 96% is improving and households get an average of €500 more to spend in 2019. That's not a promise, because we're not making any promises about this. It is the pass-through of the Central Planning Bureau of the effects of the government measures, in combination with how the economy develops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u237	Yeah, but the people who watch television at home don't use "average." The AOW'er is worried about what he's getting from Mr. Rutte next year. Do you know how many people it is who earn the morale together, Mr. Rutte? The two people who work together and have one child, so in which one partner, the man or the woman, works and earns €25,000 and the other part-time works, that is hundreds of thousands of Dutch. They, ordinary working people, are getting worse in your story. People with benefits are also disadvantaged. People with a pension also receive less if they have a lower pension than a high pension. You're just gonna bleed it. It makes you bleed, while the people with two tons of fat advance on it in all the pictures. That's not fair, is it? It's not fair to give the people with a high income of a few tons something extra, just like you do with those companies, Shell and Unilever? It's not fair for you to bleed people who are a little harder because they have benefits or because they're working together and they're just getting fashionable? What's fair about that? Now, don't come back with a general answer. What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u238	Again, Mr Wilders compares apples with pears. He talks about Nibud figures where all sorts of things weren't included. What we normally do here in debates on purchasing power is to base ourselves on the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau in which everything is contained. Then you see that 96% of all Dutch people and 97% of all older people are making progress. And that the average increase for a household is €500. That's not a promise, but that's how the Central Planning Office will pass on the effects of the economy, wage increases and relief on income next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u239	Just no answer again. Again refer to a picture of a Central Planning Agency. I asked the Prime Minister first: do you know the Nibud figures? Then he says: yes, I have just answered Mr Krol. Then the Prime Minister runs away. Of course everyone knows that he also has to pay a higher rent, of course everyone knows that he is going to pay more for groceries because of you, that he is going to pay more for energy and that health care is going to go up again. I say to you: those who have it a little less, so those who have a low pension, have a benefit or who work, but who, together with their husband or wife in a family, are just going to pay for it! That's hundreds of thousands of people. And the higher incomes and the companies get some extras from you. Again, for the third time, I'm just trying again: isn't that unfair? That's an unfair story, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u240	Mr Wilders does not have the facts on his side. He now mentions all kinds of things such as the VAT increase, the rent increase and the increase in the health premium. They are all in the purchasing power figures presented by the Central Planning Bureau. This leads to that figure, up to that figure of €500 on average that households have more to spend. Again, that's an expectation, not a promise. This leads to 1.5%, which leads to the image that 96% of Dutch people are making progress. So Mr Wilders really has to keep the facts on his side, but he doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u241	Finally. Hundreds of thousands of Dutch people, probably millions, because every year Mr Rutte lies about purchasing power figures, goes backwards, goes backwards. Anyone who supposedly gets a euro on average knows that the rents are going up again in July and the health insurance is going up. Mr Rutte can say that it is all there, but all these people have to pay for it again. And what does the Prime Minister do? He makes the big companies agree, and the people who paid for the crisis, he makes them pay again. Among the people who get something, there are two tons. He gives them extra money and takes the minimum income, benefits and pensions. You can say a hundred times that it's not true, Mr. Rutte, but the people at home know that this is the truth and that you're lying again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u242	The figures I present here, which the cabinet presents, are not figures as a promise. They are calculations by an independent institute with great respect, the Central Planning Bureau, of the effects for next year. So it's not numbers we make up here. They are simply objectively calculated figures which take into account all those elements such as the increase in VAT and possible increases in the health premium, the increase in collective agreements and rent increases, so everything. That eventually leads to this image. How is that possible? Next year you will see a mix of an increase in wages and a substantial reduction in charges. This ultimately leads to an increase in purchasing power in the Netherlands over a very broad front. And that is appropriate, because I think it is one of the aims of this cabinet and also of the Chamber that people feel that things are getting better now that we are coming out of the crisis. And that they experience it thanks to investments in the public sector, which I'm about to come up with, and in the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u243	If I didn't have to say this, I really wouldn't, but Mr Wilders is right. It's a paper reality when it comes to purchasing power. Take the energy load. In what way has it been included in purchasing power figures? In inflation. But we all know that the energy bill for the people with the lowest incomes is a much larger part of the spending they do. You can't make up for everything by cutting income tax. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u244	That is a question that Mr Klaver had already asked on Wednesday. I was going to come up with that later. I'm just gonna grab it right now. In fact, the energy tax is part of the whole package of measures taken by the cabinet in his question. The proceeds of these measures will be used to reduce income tax, so that in the end 96% of households will improve next year. So here again goes: tell the whole story. In his question, Mr Klaver has correctly explained how this is reflected in the figures of the Central Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u245	I come to it now and not to the block of climate, because it's about purchasing power. I asked the Prime Minister if he agrees with me that the energy bill is a larger proportion of the expenditure of people with a smaller income than of people with a larger income.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u246	Yeah, that depends. Some VVDs have a huge energy bill, but on average it will be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u247	Look. I'm glad we can agree on that. For people with lower incomes, energy counts more heavily in their spending. So if you're going to calculate with an average figure like the CPB does, with an inflation rate, then you're not going to take the whole cost increase for those people. If the Prime Minister then claims to repair purchasing power by a tax refund, then he is not telling the truth here. A lot of people won't get that back that way. That is why I have called for the reduction in the energy tax to be maintained in its entirety, because that is the best way to ensure that the lowest incomes do not deteriorate. Is the Prime Minister prepared to cooperate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u248	There are very good reasons why we are removing this energy tax. We know that income policy, through tax cuts such as those in the energy tax adjustment, costs more public resources than targeted income policies. That is why the cabinet does this and makes it part of the whole purchasing power package. The increase in purchasing power is ultimately based on all the effects of that measure. That's what the Central Planning Office does. That's our objective mathematician. It then calculates the different titles in those purchasing power elements, sometimes through inflation, sometimes directly, which differs. That will then be merged and will lead to the purchasing power picture, and we see 96% progressing on it. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u249	Those are not the facts at all! I have just indicated, and the Prime Minister agreed with me, that such an energy bill would put a heavier burden on the expenditure of the lowest income. Why was the discount scheme on the energy bill ever conceived, that amount that everyone in the Netherlands gets? To ensure that people with the lowest incomes do not have to pay too high an energy bill, that there is no energy poverty. That is why this scheme was once introduced. The cabinet deliberately chooses to take them out. And you can, but don't pretend you can fix that with purchasing power, because you can't fix it with it. If you didn't count on inflation, but really look at what that increase means for people's income, then not 96% of people are making progress as the CPB figures say, but much and much and much less. And if you don't believe it, let it pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u250	That is a strange argument, because this is a so-called lumpsum transfer; that is what they call a tax reduction. That is an unfocused way of income policy. It will end up with all companies, which will end up with all households, including those with the highest incomes. They all get the same amount of relief. What we are doing is using the money we are raising to reduce income tax rates and other things that we are doing and which ultimately lead to the figures presented by the Central Planning Bureau. These are the expectations for purchasing power development next year. I'm underlining: no promise, because you can't do that. You can only make a promise about the tax package element, because that's what we're talking about here. With all the other elements, you never know for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u251	Finally. Either the Prime Minister doesn't get it, or the Prime Minister doesn't want to get it. Precisely because everyone gets the same amount, whether they make a ton or €1,000, that amount means more for someone who earns €1,000. In other words, it makes the people with the lowest incomes compensate the most. What this cabinet is doing is choosing to just run it through taxes. That is so unfocused with your tax resources that you make people think, "Damn, my energy bill is rising, while we have such a big challenge in climate policy. I don't see any change in tackling climate change yet, and yet my energy bill is going up. How is that possible?" The Prime Minister thereby undermines people's confidence in our common approach to climate change. That energy bill doesn't have to rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u252	On the other hand, it is crazy that we use this type of measure to conduct unfocused income policies through the energy bill. The cabinet uses the proceeds to lower the tax discs, to lower the income tax. And then when you look at how that works out, that's a neat picture. It's not at all that it all goes to the highest incomes. It is spread neatly and eventually this cabinet even narrows the income differences if you look over the whole period. Look at the gini score Mr. Pechtold graduated from during the formation. That's what Mr. Klaver told me to do. When he was gone, Mr. Pechtold thought: we keep that going. All this has been done in a decent way. So it's a balanced purchasing power picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u253	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u254	I'm coming to the head of the public sector. Important things have been said about that. I do not agree with the harsh terms used by a number of political groups during the first term of the Chamber. I am impressed by what is happening in the Netherlands in the public sector. I call the police, the people in education, the people who work in health care and the people who work in the armed forces. By the way, can I mention the state officials for once? We have a very good state service, very good state officials. I also mention the many people who work at provinces, municipalities and water boards. If you say that the whole country needs to be better if it can be financially and that we also need to experience it, it makes sense for you to invest in the public sector. That's what the Cabinet does. We invest not 2 billion but 6 billion in the public sector. A number of questions have been asked. For example, don't you think you've gone too far with the cuts? The cabinet believes that this is not the case. If you see the growth rates of our economy, then you can really see that we are all together. I repeat that with 17 million people this country was healthy when we were in the crisis. Specific questions have been asked about education. You can see that there is a lot more to it, but the fact is that there were also outstanding problems. You heard that in the interrupting debate, too. A mandate of 415 million, 183 million of which remained structurally unchanged from the previous cabinet. We have been able to solve this to a large extent in the coalition agreement. The rest we have had to solve in this package, but that is a small amount compared to the whole. Mr President, I see Mr Asscher standing at the interrupting microphone. Will I first answer the questions about the public sector all or would you like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u255	That depends on the number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u256	I've got some.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u257	Then I suggest you answer those questions first. Then you'll be the first to have the opportunity to interrupt, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u258	Good. In this context, there was a question at the VVD about the professions of the future. How do you deal with that now? It was not just about the labour market, but in Mr Dijkhoff's speech it was also about its counterpart, the professions of the future. People need to be manoeuvrable and resilient in the labour market of the future. The Cabinet feels the same way. We are promoting a range of training that responds to the needs of the labour market, science and society. You can see that in the MBO. A board agreement has been reached. We also have sectoral agreements for higher education. That's all about the connection. It is very important to link up with the regional labour market. Of course, the higher education institutions have the scope to develop training courses for occupations they expect to develop in the future. In primary and secondary education, there too, preparation for future occupations is of great importance. For this reason, the formal curriculum of primary and secondary education is reviewed under the heading "curriculum nu'. It looks at issues such as digital skills, cyberskills and other specific areas of attention. In doing so, we are trying to make the essential significance of these digital skills more reflected in the curriculum. We are also committed to a broad approach for people over 21, 22, 23 years of lifelong development. This used to be called lifelong learning. Developing a lifelong is a bit more positive. We do this together with social partners and educational institutions. That depends on what you do after the present Technics Pact. The deficits there are still large. That is why Economic Affairs and Social Affairs have outlined the outlines of the new technology pact, which runs until 2020. This was discussed in a general meeting in the Chamber on 27 June. There's an extra 100 million going to technical vmbo. Mr Dijkhoff also refers to this. Among other things, it focuses on cooperation between public and private parties. For example, companies should also contribute financially. That means we want to give this a chance. In 2020, we want to row to the side and insert the thermometer into it to see what else is needed. I can add one more thing. Especially when it comes to the MBO, fortunately the guild system still applies, as we know from the Middle Ages. The government is responsible for training in schools, but companies are responsible for the placements. This has the effect for the MBO that it contributes much more to training for jobs of the future. That is almost a fact, because companies will not offer internships for professions that are disappearing, at least much less internships. I see there's a question, but maybe we'll do it at the end of this piece, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u259	Yeah, that's what we just agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u260	Yeah, that's what we agreed. I thought I could give my party mate Dijkhoff a chance to interrupt, but of course I can't do that. The public service. We share the analysis and care of D66 and Christian Union among others. We've got developments on the retina. We think it is important to have a public broadcaster with a recognizable, reliable and safe source of information for everyone. Journalism in the Netherlands, including newspaper journalism, is essential to provide our country with good, objective information. This whole subjective assessment of news, the opinion-forming of journalism, may of course, but one must also ensure investigative journalism, the facts in a row and so on. This is particularly important at a time when our democracy is confronted with fake news and other things. Yesterday, in the context of the European Council in Salzburg, I informally made a point that, as far as we are concerned, it remains primarily a responsibility of journalism and that we are therefore careful to establish all kinds of European structures. This must really be a case we're leaving with journalism. That's part of looking at a few important things. In this way, we will strengthen regional and local information. 5 million is earmarked for this purpose. This is also for investigative journalism at regional and local level. Furthermore, the cabinet is working with interested public and private parties on the overall strengthening of the media sector. There are discussions on a wide range of topics. We are also working on a longer-term vision for public service broadcasting, because in the end we really need to maintain a strong, pluralistic broadcasting system, which is also qualitative pluralism, including the media. For that it is necessary that we do this, because it does not happen by itself. We also see all kinds of major foreign developments, such as Netflix, but also the newspapers, which have a huge impact on the Dutch television and radio community. Then the question about communication from the tax authorities, municipalities and UWV. For us it is essential that this happens in normal Dutch and that all people, including those who have difficulty reading, have a slightly intellectual disability or have problems in multiple areas, know access to public information. I always pay tribute to the work done by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman's office helps us to communicate in normal Dutch, by not talking about "intergenerational solidarity" but about how we make sure that young and old have a pension ever again. Many initiatives are being taken to take greater account of people's capacity to act. For example, in the above-mentioned Action Plan, you see a broad approach to debt. There is a pilot at the Tax Administration and the Foundation Read & Write for the Low-Literature in order to serve people better. SVB and UWV use behavioral scientists to improve communication. So this is being picked up on a wide field. Then questions were asked about health care. In particular, they asked about the Randstad versus the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u261	I'm gonna have to interrupt you, because there's someone who's getting a little impatient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u262	Before we read the understandable, education, the NPO and health care all put in one block, I would...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u263	It's all the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u264	Yes, but the Prime Minister won't get away with it. Since Mr Dijkhoff was first, I think we should now be able to ask a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u265	Then it will be Mr Asscher, who was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u266	Wait a minute, I'm gonna go over the order of business. I would give Mr Asscher the floor, but I think I will give Mr Dijkhoff the floor first, because it is his first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u267	Well, Mr. Chairman, I saw him on Wednesday, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u268	Yeah, I'm okay with it. I promised you. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u269	Thank you. Today's first interruption, Mr. President. What I liked about social security is that there is a whole agenda with a lot of ambition of the cabinet for the next ten or fifteen years, but that the Prime Minister also announced that he wants to look at the longer term. In education, I also found a very clear, ambitious agenda for the next ten, fifteen years and technology in the base after the Technics Pact. But I should also like to urge the leaders to prepare themselves in advance for the major questions that arise in the medium term. I would like to leave the form to the govern ments themselves, but I would like to give an additional encouragement so that we as a Chamber can debate it again and form an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u270	Then let me say that I'm making that incentive mine. I honestly think, knowing globally what is happening, that it is more than just the years to come, but also really a look at the longer term; I am looking at Mr Slob. Let us make the agreement, and that affects me too, Mrs van Engelshoven, that we take this to heart and see whether what is going on is sufficiently addressing this longer term. Otherwise, we're gonna come up with something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u271	Thank you. If we can have a brief update of that for the budget, then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u272	Yeah, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u273	Okay. Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u274	I just wanted to talk to you about the public service. For years, we've seen changes. The people who look at it change their composition. You can see that advertising revenue is a big problem. In short, the overall picture of the future is uncertain. Kabinets in a row are already in the process of looking together with public service broadcasting at what is written in the government agreement, namely that we are in the Netherlands in favour of a good public service broadcasting and that we want to keep it robust. But I am so afraid that these talks about the future will continue to be overwhelmed by the financial deficits. My question is whether, on the one hand, Minister Slob can have the space to ensure in the near future that the NPO and the broadcasters are also forward-looking, but, on the other hand, we in The Hague are open to making more sure that any finances associated with it will be more secure for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u275	Do I hear what Mr. Pechtold is saying? What has happened too often in the past There was a problem and we're doing some more money at the same time doesn't work. What is needed, I hear him say, is a longer-term vision of public service broadcasting with the aim, I would say, that there is a strong public service broadcasting with all the elements that I have already mentioned: quality, pluralism and quality, including all the media offerings that go with it. I think that should be the order. First of all, we must make sure that it is there, and we must be prepared, I hear Mr Pechtold say, to look at it: if it has financial implications, let us look at it again and not close the door in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u276	I think that's exactly the order I'd like. But a minister who's going to speak alone with the NPO... We must be careful, moreover, that this will not be an entire Polish country day and that everyone will be involved in it from the country of broadcasting. But I trust the Minister will choose the right partners. In addition to all the issues mentioned by the Prime Minister, I would also like to see a little more transparency around the costs incurred there, also in order to maintain the support for the fact that we are spending taxpayers' money on them. But that's the order: a good conversation with a good plan for the future, but then I'm thinking about a motion on it. Make sure that that can be rewarded somehow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u277	Yes, that step-by-step approach seems to me to be necessary, because in the past, I have been annoyed by the fact that we were adding money without a firm vision of the real structural solution to the problems of broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u278	Mr Asscher or Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u279	I wanted to talk about education. That was somewhere 45 minutes ago in this megablock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u280	No, I'll go to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u281	It is indeed a very interesting variety. Just a little bit more about the network. In any case, I know that there are charges elsewhere in Europe, for example on Netflix, so that new media companies also contribute to the provision of public news. I mentioned in my own contribution that it would be good to look again at the wall that now exists between newspapers, private news organisations and broadcasters and public broadcasters. In that very broad package there is a broad reflection. Mr Pechtold said that it should not be Polish country day, but I hope that many parties will be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u282	This does indeed affect the development that Netflix and other major international media companies are slowly pounding on the door of this beautiful country and are already partly inside. The discussions in the Netherlands between RTL and NOS or NPO and between regional, local and national newspapers and broadcasters are all very relevant. But of course they lose power when you realize that the entire landscape is at some point under the influence of foreign parties, who are working with enormous investment power to penetrate. I believe that journalism is a vital pillar of our democracy, alongside the House of Representatives and society. So we intend to work on a longer-term vision of public service broadcasting on the one hand. That is the first point. Secondly, we want to work with interested public and private parties to strengthen the entire media sector. Talks have started with a wide range of parties, the rooms at OCW are large, so that can be done about a strategic approach for the future of the media in the Netherlands. So that's wider than just the NPO. There are two separate routes, which partly interfere with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u283	I thought Dijkhoff was gonna interrupt about extra educational resources for the neighborhoods where that's necessary. But it turned out to be something else. You will have to look at how we are doing, Mr President, but I would like to ask three questions about education, because they have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u284	But I haven't finished teaching yet. I was still working on that. No, I was done. I'm sorry. I only had Mr Asscher's question on bbl. I still have to answer that. Shall I do that first, and then he asks the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u285	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u286	Let me explain it to the viewers. Mr Asscher asked a question about this in the first term. It might be useful for me to answer that briefly. He talked about the 19.5 million cut in grants for practical learning bb. That's right before 2019. It is part of a broader package of measures needed to achieve the 163 million remaining in education. I just mentioned that. I very much agree with Louis Asscher that this is a useful subsidy scheme. The aim is to encourage employers to create practical training places. In the first period, somewhere in an interruption, the suggestion was raised that a distinction should be made between larger and smaller companies. I don't think so. The amount per place offered is now €2,700 and it goes to €2,500. I thought that was the same thing about everything. It's still a nice amount. We have, of course, also had to take account of the economic situation. Many employers currently have great difficulty filling vacancies. Learning workshops should then be interesting to fill these vacancies, as a large proportion of dual students end up working for the company. That would have been my answer if Mr Asscher had asked the question again. Now it is the answer to last Wednesday's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u287	We're talking about the opportunities for children. We hear the Prime Minister thinking about a future curriculum. That's all very important, but this is acute. These apprenticeships are about young people coming from the MBO. They just praised it: the guild system, the professionals of the future. We don't have enough professionals. It really seems to me a bizarre bad idea to start cutting back on these young people at this time. I can't control it, but the MBO Council has calculated that this is going to hit thousands and thousands of young people on the MBO. So I ask the cabinet to spend more money on the people and to make sure that this austerity does not take place, in the interests of our future professionals and the opportunities for children.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u288	I have very few arguments to refute Mr Asscher's argument, because it is of course a fact: if you cut down on the vocational apprenticeship, as it is called today, this will of course lead to fewer practical training places and apprenticeships, which would be a pity. You just have a point. But yes, we also need to find the money, so eventually we had to look for measures with the least damage. But I cannot deny that this measure will have an effect. You just have a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u289	The passionate defense of the dividend tax stands in stark contrast to this "yes, you're right, that's going to limit a few thousand children's future, but yes, we had to find money, pompy doom." This really is a mockery for the young people we are talking about, but also for the companies that are jumping over these motivated professionals. So a compelling appeal to the coalition. This is the third example: the dividend tax, people who become ill or disabled and now the opportunities for our children. This cannot be done, this austerity must be abolished. The second point I would like to make is primary education. Children do not have the time to wait for a new curriculum, they do not have the chance to wait for education to improve further, they are already dealing with a lack of teachers. I am very pleased that there is extra money for teachers' salaries, they have taken action for themselves, and that is not small, but does the Prime Minister agree with me that, in order to solve the shortage of teachers urgently for the future, we should recognise that there is a pay gap between primary and secondary education, also secondary special education, because that is covered by the cheaper collective agreement and that we should want to run into it with each other in order to get what we want for Dutch children, namely good education and opportunities for all children?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u290	First of all about the subsidy scheme: that is certainly not pompiedom. I'm not here to sing a song and don't say, "Well, take care of it." I think you have a point there, so I await Mr Asscher's proposals on that point. Then there is his question about the broader discussion on primary education. I understand that a great deal will be asked today to invest billions more. Maybe that can have good effects here and there or not. But the fact is that a cabinet has to make choices. We have been one of the most expansive Cabinets since the 1970s, we come from a crisis; all very explainable and politically defendable. But we are putting 6 billion more into the public sector in the coming years. If I look at the sector that Mr Asscher is talking about, 270 million will go to the primary school teachers, for which he has made himself strong in the border area between the former and this cabinet. This is an average increase of 8.5% in structural terms, i.e. €3,100 gross per year. Since August, schools have been receiving the first funds to reduce working pressure of 430 million. In January 2019 extra money will be available for preschool care. I mentioned the 100 million for technical vmbo. We are really investing in education across a very broad front. I also think that makes sense if in a previous period you couldn't do that because of the crisis. I understand that, and everyone will have a good argument about this today, including Mr Asscher, without a doubt, that more is being asked for. But here, you do have to make choices. What we are doing here for primary education, for primary education, I think is a very justifiable package, with very positive effects on that sector. Now let's give that a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u291	I'm all in favour of pulling out a lot more immediately for that, but what I asked for was something else. I asked for the Prime Minister's recognition that this pay gap plays a role in the shortage of teachers and to express the ambition that we should walk into it as a modern prosperous country, if you know that opportunities for children are the most important. So yes, I'd like to talk to the Prime Minister about billions more for education, but I asked him something else. There's a precedent for that. Kees van der Staaij said something similar a while ago: we need to spend more on Defense in the long run. That's what we supported back then. I think that the conclusion here is inevitable: that wage gap must be filled. So I'm asking the Prime Minister to respond to that. I get that you can't do that all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u292	I find that extremely difficult. In fact, there is a little bit of an aside that we are now, thanks to Asscher himself, making a huge spurt in primary education to increase salaries. Let's see how that develops over the next few years. But making political statements about differences that may or may not be justified, when you do not yet have the opportunity to invest them with money on top of the many billions we put into the public sector, I find gratuitous. I think that's really gratuitous. I don't think we should. Then you can also have a whole debate on whether or not there should be a difference in salaries in primary and secondary education. That's a separate discussion. But even if you did not think there should be that pay gap, I still think it would be gratuitous to make a general and political statement about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u293	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u294	In a debate with Rutte, there will always be a moment when he will review the opponent during the debate. He's gonna say at meta level: I think this is gratuitous. It's not that. It is a wish of primary education. That's where tens of thousands of people go in front of the streets. I'd take those words back. You don't want to do that right now. It's possible. But gratuitous is not when you consider that you now have too few teachers to teach children and when you consider that you have a four-day school week in Zaanstad. I hear Mr. Pechtold talking behind me now. I understand he'd like to help. Yesterday, he tried. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister a question. I'm not waiting for his qualifications of my input. I want an ordinary answer. And I'd like an answer to that, too. Mr Pechtold............................................................................................................................................................................................... So it should not be at the expense of the schools and the teachers themselves. I would ask the Prime Minister to confirm this for us, because that would be very reassuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u295	Let's talk about the gratuitous thing. This is not about the desire that lives in a sector, but it is about what Mr Asscher is doing here. I think that's really gratuitous. I say that in all friendship and cheerful. You mustn't think I'm angry about this. That's not true at all, but I find it too easy for you to say that now, while we're putting billions into the public sector. We are now seeing a very, very significant increase in salaries in primary education. I just mentioned the amounts. That increase goes up to the €3,100 gross I just indicated. That's starting next year. It's 8.5%. What I find gratuitous is not that the sector has that wish. That's perfectly justifiable if that's what they want. They can always have wishes. We will always approach them with respect. What I find gratuitous is to ask for a ruling now as a political one, while the money to close such a pay gap is nowhere near there and so many other problems need to be solved. I find it gratuitous to say: speak as a political figure that you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u296	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u297	Anyway, that's at that point. Then there's his second question. When Mr Pechtold says something in a first term, that is always true. That's what I want to say first. But if it's true what he said about the 183 million, I'd like to double-check. I'll have that piece sorted out before I say yes, but it's usually right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u298	Mr. Chairman, wouldn't it be a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u299	Finally. Finally, because I just said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u300	I know, Mr. Chairman. I should have liked to ask this question in a few different questions about the different parts of education. I don't think it's very interesting that the Prime Minister finds the gratuitous. That's fine. All this is allowed in the debate. But I asked a serious question. I didn't ask if money would be invested now. I started with a compliment, for the fact that money is being invested. The Prime Minister also knows very well that I am quite prepared to designate cover when it comes to additional investments. Then he'll say he thinks he's gratuitous, but he knows he is. I asked him to speak out... Mr President, Mr Pechtold is talking through it again. I don't know if that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u301	You shouldn't care about that. Mr Pechtold always does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u302	He doesn't always do that. He usually does when he's not comfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u303	Well, I'm not going that far. Anyway, proceed, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u304	I ask the Prime Minister once again, not for myself, but for the sector. And yes, that will cost money in time. My view is that we should give that money for it. This wage gap must be overcome because the shortage of teachers, which is rising in the coming years and which is extremely problematic in the shrinking regions and in the big cities, threatens our future directly, perhaps more directly than a departure from Unilever. I ask him to acknowledge that and I take all the other comments for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u305	I am referring to my answer and the way in which I interpret the question, and I am sticking to the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u306	Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u307	PO in action, a broad front of thousands of teachers, states that the public sector is on fire. How does the Prime Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u308	I disagree. I can see that there are important issues to be resolved in the public sector. But when I look at the public sector in the Netherlands, at how it relates to what is happening in other countries, at the standards we have in the Netherlands, at the fact that we have the best health care in Europe and that we have education that has very high results, I think we can all be proud of that. I do agree with many people in the public sector that something really needs to be done, and I think the cabinet is doing the same, although I assume Mrs Marijnissen will want more. We're gonna hear that from her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u309	Under the last Rutte Cabinets, huge cuts have been made, especially in the public sector. We were just talking about the social work facility, which was locked up, but also the nursing homes closed and home care was halved and the classes grew. Now we're doing well economically. Prime Minister Rutte just said that this is because we all, all 17 million Dutch, contributed to this. I would like to say: if only that were true. The profits of companies have grown. The benefits to shareholders have grown. Business reserves have grown. But what has also grown, Mr. Prime Minister, are the deficits, the deficits in our public sector. My question to the Prime Minister is as follows. On 2 October, people from the public sector will take action. What does he say to them? He says, "Yes, but we do everything, so what are you complaining about? With what story will he meet these people on October 2nd?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u310	That I have the greatest respect for everyone in the Netherlands who joins us all, as a teacher, as a nurse, as a doctor, as a police officer, as a defence officer, in the government, in the fire department. I will say that they are doing vital work for all of us, that we have the utmost respect for it, that thanks to all of these men and women we have one of the best public sectors in the world, that we have come out of a serious crisis, that we have had to cut back on many things, including the public sector, that we can spend extra money now that we are doing better and that we are doing so, that we can see with them where we can best do it, in education, in health, in care for the elderly and in other sectors such as defence and police, but unfortunately we cannot honour all our wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u311	I think there are so many people in the Netherlands who would have liked it so much that the latter, "unfortunately, we cannot honor all your wishes," was not said to our caregivers, to our agents and to our teachers, but to the foreign shareholders, to Shell and Unilever, who came to visit you. For how wretched is it that at this very time when there is apparently so much money that without any significant argument, only the Prime Minister's fibres, we can transfer 2 billion each year to foreign shareholders, the Prime Minister on 2 October actually says to all those people in the public sector: yes, you can act and I have a lot of respect for what you are doing, but you don't have to count on me? I hope the Prime Minister wants to be a prime minister for all Dutch people, and not just for foreign shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u312	That is precisely why we are ensuring that not 2 billion but 6 billion are invested in the public sector. If that question were to arise, my explanation would be that we must ensure that we can also invest money in the public sector in 10, 20 and 30 years, and that we need jobs for this, including in the private sector, where taxes are levied in order to finance the public sector. My explanation would be that a cabinet should therefore do and-and-do: ensure, if possible, that charges are reduced, that investment in the public sector is good, that it is strong business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u313	As far as the public sector is concerned, I would like to make a point about the care of the elderly. It is a point that is very important to us, as you know. You all know the contributions that my colleague Fleur Agema has been making for years. The fact is that this cabinet and the previous cabinet have closed the nursing homes, and I believe that 60,000, 70,000 and perhaps 80,000 places have disappeared and that nothing has actually replaced that. Now the theory is that people have to stay home longer and, if there's really no other way to do it, they go to a nursing home. On average, people in the Netherlands do not spend more than one year in a nursing home before they die. I'm saying this to tell you what time one doesn't get into a nursing home. In the meantime, it should be home care that should make the lives of older people livable. But it doesn't work that way. I've said it many times. I therefore come to the point that the Leiden Noord police posted a message on Facebook yesterday morning at 5:00 a.m. I can read it to you, because the police have made it public. Here's what's in it. "Last night we were told that there would be a woman on the street. The old lady was confused and lay in her pajamas on the street. The woman turned out to have walked demented and out of her apartment. When we found the apartment, we brought her back. Her husband, 92 years old, turned out to be taking care of her. The couple wanted to stay together as long as possible, because they could not live together in a nursing home." These are terrible stories! They go through marrow and bone, don't they? Those people could normally have lived together in one room in a nursing home, with a little quality of life, and then, when they can't do it anymore, in a nursing home. Now there isn't. There's even a cut on home care. And Mrs. 92 is on the street, dementia, and her husband can't handle it. That's impossible, isn't it? We can't live in a country like this, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u314	The example mentioned by Mr Wilders is obviously very sad; I think we do not have to take anything off of it. Everyone in this room will confirm that. It is also impressive, how this couple wants to stay together and, I understand from the message, apparently has seen no other way out than this choice. What we want to achieve with each other in this country, and that is what we agree, I think, is that we organise the care in such a way that people eventually experience that it is possible to make customization. That means we have to bring care close to the people. That was what the previous cabinet wanted, but unfortunately there was too little money due to the crisis and even some cuts had to be made. Now there's financial space to spend more money. The previous cabinet has already been able to make a start on this, and we can now make a major effort to do so, for example in the care of the elderly. It means that we want to bring care closer to the people. This is also one of the aims of the decentralisations we have carried out before. It means that people will actually experience that this will improve care and support; exactly what Mr Wilders wants. I'm not gonna mention all these programs here, so what we all do. And that we're pulling billions for that, Mr Wilders now believes so. He knows the facts, so I'm gonna leave that for now. I think we can agree here on the fact that we want to achieve this with each other. Therefore, if we ensure that those who know the most about it, the municipalities that know their inhabitants, are able to offer the customization that is needed at the level of the municipality. A lot of extra money goes to the municipalities and a lot of extra money goes to the care of the elderly. We must ensure that this includes the resources that go with it. And I say right away that it will never be complete enough, but I think that is still the best solution: customization, and making sure that you can solve it as much as possible towards the people. That doesn't change the horrible sad story Mr Wilders is reading, which affects us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u315	I sincerely believe that the Prime Minister thinks this is a terrible story too. But he's also a little co-responsible, and I'm not gonna let him get away with this either. Look, this is no exception. Now, in this case, these people say: we couldn't go to a nursing home, because then we would have to live apart. But for other people, there's just no place at all. And at home care, there's gonna be nibble. And Mr. Prime Minister, these are no exceptions. You were just talking about these people's "choice." But this isn't people's choice. People do not choose to lie on their 92nd dement in a pajamas on the street and be taken off the streets by the police. I mean, this is to get sad, isn't it? So what can you do for those people, structurally, to take care of them, and again: there are many people who are sitting at home with home care, who have been cut off, and are in a nursing home in the last year of your life... Surely we must be able to give people a decent life. I thought we should never have closed down those nursing homes. We shouldn't accept in the Netherlands that we spend billions on what, I know what, and we let the elderly sleep on the streets? That's impossible, isn't it? Isn't that what we should be ashamed of?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u316	By "choice," by what I just said, of course I didn't mean the sad story of the lady lying on the street. I understand from this story that this couple said that they wanted to stay together, and that, from the choice to stay together, they saw no other way out or only had the choice that the older gentleman at his old age had to take care of his dementing wife. That's how I understand the story. Let me just answer the question. I think we all agree on the sadness of this police report. What I am putting on the other side is that, in my absolute conviction, the only way to solve that is a combination of two things. First of all, there's gonna be more money. We have had to cut back on a lot of things in recent years because of the crisis, fortunately there is now room for some extra money for elder care, for example, on a broad front. This also applies to hospital care, but now, of course, it is mainly about care for the elderly. We must leave room for the municipalities, because of the role they have been given in the area of the Wmo, the law that deals with this, along with all kinds of other tasks they have, of course, in conjunction with the Long-Term Care Act, which is organized nationwide. In this way, we must ensure that tailor-made solutions are available. Hugo de Jonge, Bruno Bruins and I have the ambition to do that. To, now that the extra money is there, to do the same. For example, we have a program Langer Home, but also another program, Care for Youth. I will come to that in a moment, because there are rightly concerns about the care of young people, but we are talking about the elderly here. How do you ensure that people can live longer at home, in a humane way, and not end up in a situation like this in these awfully sad police reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u317	Again, I'm not gonna turn this into a cheap political issue. I think the Prime Minister thinks this is a terrible story, too. But the reason for this is precisely that way between living at home and all the way to the end of your life.I told you, on average, people don't spend more than a year in a nursing home. Of course, people prefer to live at home and together, but sometimes they can't. We used to have nursing homes for that. We had also arranged for a couple to live there together. But, yeah, if there's no more places in nursing homes, then you can't sit there with your husband or wife at 80 or 90. That's indecent, isn't it? Then we have to get those places back so that people can stay together, at home or in a nursing home, before they go to a nursing home? Getting old together, isn't that more than a decent society? Isn't that what we're supposed to do? I would therefore ask the Prime Minister once again to think about this. Shouldn't we have just kept these nursing homes? Shouldn't they come back in part? It would be a pleasure for you or the Health Minister if, if I were to give you this message, you would just contact these people. I think it is important that they see that, despite all the macro stories, something is happening for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u318	Let me respond immediately to the latter. Hugo the Young is already shaking his head. If you forward the message, he will contact you and enter into consultation. But now to the more general point. I don't know if the answer to this is back to the old nursing homes. I see the point Mr Wilders is making about nursing homes. But now that extra money is available, now that municipalities have their tasks sharp, through the combination of the Long-Term Care Act and the Wmo, and that everything is combined with each other, I believe we can conclude that between home living and the nursing home all kinds of other forms have arisen, combining care and living. Just to make sure that people who want to stay together can do the same. I think we'll see that; that's going to happen now. If we were to go back to the old model of nursing homes, that would be back to square one. During work visits that we all make, you will see in many places, such as in Middelburg, what is now developing and what beautiful combinations are being made for the people between home and the nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u319	Unfortunately, I recognize Mr Wilders' sad story. But I also recognize something in the Prime Minister's response. He'll be surprised, but I'm gonna help him. We have often argued in a motion for a resolution that there should be much more age-proof construction and that there should be many more senior homes. Many people like to stay at home, of course, but often their home is not suitable for that. They also keep houses occupied that would be much better for another generation. I still haven't heard from this cabinet that it's actually going to bet on more senior homes and build more age-resistant. I would like that commitment from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u320	To be honest, in a few years' time, I think you'll see that such arrangements are going to come about where they're useful. I am trying to prevent us from putting policies on that, because before you know it, national politics decides that there should be more housing of a particular type. I think it will happen if we leave some room for care institutions and municipalities and facilitate that nationwide. Hugo de Jonge is working on a number of action-oriented approaches to achieve this. There is now some money available; in some areas there is really considerable additional investment space available. I think we'll see that happen. I think we are in agreement on the direction, but I would like to avoid having to make a nationwide statement here and that a particular type of home will be built everywhere that may not be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u321	Now I regret the fact that I was trying to help the Prime Minister. The motion has been passed. In fact, 145 people in this parliament voted in favour. I also mentioned it in my first term and received support from the CDA colleague. I was very happy with that. I expected a little more support from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u322	I think I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u323	'Cause those senior homes are really needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u324	Then there's been a misunderstanding. I thought I'd give it to you. Only, I thought Mr Krol said that there should be some sort of national policy rule or ruling on it. But if he means that you see that development and that you also need to look nationally at how to facilitate it and how to prevent things from stopping by means of your regulations... I myself have seen such beautiful examples from my work and work visits, where I thought: wow, I'm glad I'm not older yet, but I also see much less against it if I can apparently do so. That's the kind of country we want to live in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u325	I'm glad we listened to each other after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u326	It's a big block, where a lot comes together. So I'm going back to the question of whether the public sector is on fire, or as I call it: the crisis in the public sector. The Prime Minister is ignoring it very quickly, but there is indeed a crisis. We're about to look at a teacher shortage of 10,000 full-time jobs. Four out of five cases can't be handled by the police. In youth care there are sometimes waiting periods of 30 weeks. 30 weeks! The problems are piling up there. That means that you cannot say that there is no crisis. We need to invest extra in that now. That is why we have proposed an additional 2 billion. That's not instead of what the cabinet does, but on top of what the cabinet already does. That's not because we like it. That is not because we are dissatisfied with how salaries are rising now, but because we see that the problems are so great that we cannot wait any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u327	First of all... I've said it before: politics is making choices. We're making a lot of money. The Council of State even warns, even on other points, of the disadvantages of the expansionary fiscal policy. I believe that it remains within the framework of investing a lot of real money in the public sector, reducing the burden, making public finances healthy and a strong business. These are all goals that we want to serve at the same time to realise the two main visions of the cabinet. We all feel better. The point is that people also experience that we are not here for each other, but for the country. Back to Mr Klaver: yes, there are really serious problems to tackle. But if there weren't, the cabinet wouldn't be spending $6 billion on education, care, defense and police. That's exactly why we're doing it. He wants another $2 billion. I do not think that is wise and that 6 billion is a good measure. I respect his view. I do not share his appreciation of the public sector situation. Yeah, there are serious problems, but I think his appreciation is too heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u328	I wanted to let it go, the 6 billion that is talked about every time. But that money goes to Invest-NL or infrastructure, for example. That money won't work until people think so, all to the bus driver, the teachers or the policemen. That's kind of going to the whole government. And that's good. I'm very sorry for that. But it is ultimately the amount that really ends up in the classroom or with the police, where four out of five cases remain. There is nothing she can do about it; there are simply too few colleagues. Those things stay behind because there is not enough investment. Why is that necessary now? Why do you have to close that pay gap? That is not because we are dissatisfied with the increase in wages for next year. But if we don't close that gap, we're not gonna make sure that the teacher deficit gets down. Now we may all just be able to make it, but not for a long time next year or the year after that. Governing is forward-looking. This means that we now need to make much more money for more capacity in the police, in education, in youth care and care. Then you can say "we're doing something," but that's not enough. The time that we could do this little bit is way behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u329	Once again, in the end that is a matter of weighing things up. We all make choices here in scarcity. There's not unlimited money. We all know that. I do not need to convince Mr Klaver of that. We all know that. You make choices in scarcity. Eventually, you have to make sure you realize a number of goals at the same time. That's what the cabinet's trying to do. If you look at the state of the economy now, I think it is right that we are now investing not only in burden relief but also in the public sector. It really is a huge amount of money. There's a lot of extra money going into education, up to over 1.5 billion. I even thought that if you count everything in it, it's going to go to 1.9. There's a lot of extra money going to the DOD. There's a lot of money going to the police and there's a lot of extra money going to old people's care. That is all happening for very good reasons. I'm not asking to say "thank you, cabinet," not at all, because it's just necessary. There is a serious problem to be solved. It's nice that we can do that now. But that's a measure. I don't think it's wise at this point to say: add another 2 billion. I think it is wise to achieve what we are doing here, together with the other goals we have. I think that will solve some of the serious problems that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u330	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u331	I think it is very serious that the Prime Minister does not recognise the crisis in the public sector. He says it's a matter of measure. Tell that to those teachers, who at the end of the day feel they've failed because that class is too full, because they're not able to give all the children the attention they need. Tell that to people in child care, who cannot help children who need their support very much. The crisis there is so great that we need to invest more now. That is not only because we want to solve problems this year, but also because the problems that await us for the near future, with huge staff shortages, are so great that if the Prime Minister does not deal with them now, we will be truly wretched here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u332	If you listen to Mr Klaver now, you would almost think that this cabinet is cutting back on the public sector. We don't. There is a great deal of extra money going on, precisely to tackle a number of problems, on which I think we agree that they are there and need to be resolved. I just mentioned the amounts that go to primary school teachers and primary education. We can talk about all the other investments we make in the areas of MBO, secondary education and health care. That's what we do to solve all kinds of problems. I think you'll have two discussions. One discussion is: should you add 2 billion more to the 6 billion? That is what Mr Klaver says. Then I say, you have to make choices. As a whole, I think this is a sensible measure. Two. How do you appreciate the situation in the public sector? I think we have a strong public sector, where very good and beautiful things are happening right now and where there are some serious problems. That's my appreciation. Mr. Klaver has another one. We can differ on that. That's what I'm talking about when I measure it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u333	I'd like to know how far along you are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u334	These were all answers to interruptions. I go back to answering Wednesday's questions. Mr. Chairman. I think there are only a few questions left about the public sector block. To begin with, from the CDA's point of view, there was another question about care: what is the standard of good and accessible care in the future? And what's the minimum we're going to deliver? I think it is necessary to ask ourselves how we look at the care landscape over twenty years. Then you will see that there are substantial differences with today's care landscape. This also makes sense, because there are major demographic and social developments, such as the ageing population, the increasing number of people with one or more chronic diseases, the need for care, technological developments, and the changing needs of society for care and support. All this requires far-reaching changes in the way care and support are provided. In the main agreements it is agreed to deliver the right care in the right place by the right professional at the right time and at the right price. That is a huge ambition, but that is the ambition we have agreed with the sector. The patient's needs should be at the heart of this process, not the existing care provision, on the basis that the patient will receive at least as good or even better care. That happens in the hospital if it has to, but in the future there will be more care.We see the arrival along the first or one and a half lines, via the GP, the neighborhood care and e-health. Then I come to Mr Buma's point, I think. Here: close to where it can be done, but sometimes because of the quality it will be necessary to do the further away centers, for example when it comes to very specialised care. We believe that it would be useful in this context to have a better idea of the future need for care of patients in the regions, i.e. outside the urbanised areas. In the cabinet response to "The right care in the right place" we go into more detail. So we will also include this part of Mr Buma's contribution. That reaction will be mainly with Mr Bruins, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u335	Then I hope that this response can also come quickly to the Chamber and be included in the budget. That'd be great. The question also has to do with the demographic developments we were talking about yesterday. Suppose we get a country where many more people live, but everyone lives in the cities. There is the concern and there everything is concentrated, while it is moving away from the rest of the country. Care is extremely important. So you get an even bigger problem as a country as a whole. So my question is to look in particular at what, if one does not live in the city, one can expect in the region to have minimal care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u336	I have just been told that this is currently being mapped out by region. That will also work for the VWS budget, I understand. No, for the VWS budget, that response to the right care comes to the right place. And those photos will follow later. And you see, this cabinet does everything together. Mr. Chairman. There were also questions about child care. The question was: how do you prevent such a point from suddenly being removed? Very briefly and in summary: from 1 July 2018, 21 years is the new standard in foster care for children to stay in a foster home. That is an existing policy. The municipalities also have the power to extend youth aid to 23 if this is justified in individual cases. We simply have to recognise that there has been an increase in the use of youth aid by people aged 18 and over since the introduction of the Youth Act. This now rises from 21,600 in 2015 to 30,000 in 2017. In this context, we are considering the opinion of the Health and Society Council to extend the age limit in the Youth Act for all forms of youth assistance to 21 years. That's a very complicated trade-off. This autumn we come up with the cabinet position. In the Youth legislative consultation of 12 November, the Chamber can then discuss it with the Minister of VWS. Then I come to the NATO 2% standard. Yeah, it's a really big transition, but okay. Many young people work in the armed forces, so in that sense it is true again! Different questions have been asked about the 2% NATO standard. That standard is there and the Netherlands is far from complying with it. We're even walking back. We're now at 1.23% in 2023. We are dangling at the bottom with Belgium, Luxembourg and Slovenia. So that's not going well. The fact is that we are now adding 1.5 billion more, but even with the 1.5 billion, this is the percentage compared to the NATO standard. That's just a fact. That 1.5 billion is desperately needed. So we are also working very hard to ensure that we can fulfil our NATO tasks and provide security and so on. In NATO it was agreed that we would work towards the 2% standard in 2024. This standard is based on the Welsh Pledge, the agreements made in Wales. This means that we are now each drawing up a national plan to implement the commitments made at the 2014 NATO Summit. The Netherlands is one of the allies, so we will. The Minister of Defence has also written in the Defence Note that what we are doing now is not an end point but a step that fits within the lines. As with all kinds of other government expenditure, we will always have to look at whether, in the light of other priorities, there will be room for additional investment in the coming years. Of course, this must be done in political context with other interests of the cabinet. I see that the chairman says: please finish this section now! But there was another question about Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u337	I didn't know you could read sign language!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u338	I saw you make a gesture. A great deal of money remains on the shelf, said Mr Pechtold in the first term. This means that plans cannot be realised from today to tomorrow, because the defence organisation had to be converted from shrinking to growth. The people at Defense, but also the Minister and Secretary of State, are now fully engaged in implementing the plans, for example by increasing the acquisition capacity and the number of recruiters. Equipment is also bought from the shelf as much as possible instead of adding all kinds of unique Dutch specifications. For example, the fact that the money cannot be spent immediately has to do with the delivery of the F-35 or of unmanned aircraft. There are often years between the decision to purchase and the actual delivery. That is why the cabinet has decided to set up a budget fund for Defence, similar to funds we have in the state budget, for example the Infrastructure Fund and the Delta Fund, which are both in the Ministry of IenW. This means that you can put the money there to finance material investment and its maintenance in the long term and thus organise the continuity, predictability and planning of expenditure so that the planned investments can continue. All this money is needed to bring about the restoration and modernisation of the armed forces. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I am through all the questions I have registered in the field of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u339	About Defense, though, because there's been shortages there for years. For years, the Court of Auditors has been saying it's a mess. One does not know how the equipment works. People don't have it in order. We got a report after a report. Can the Prime Minister tell me how much this year is underspending, so money that stays on the shelf?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u340	Well, I'm not ready here, so I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u341	In the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u342	...for you to pick out for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u343	I can tell you, that's over a billion dollars. More than a billion remains on the shelf. That's year after year. And it is nice for the Minister of Finance if money is not used somewhere, but I really do not think it is possible that the DOD leaders are still unable to keep pace with the ambition we have. This is the need of a broad part of the Chamber. I agree with that. DOD, security isn't free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u344	First of all, I think these are slides, cash slides. So the money isn't gone; it's all necessary. The fact is, of course, that we, as politicians, have been cutting back on defence since 1990 with the huge peace dividend and that we have been spending a lot of extra money on defence for a few years now. It's gonna take time. And it's not just us that do that. We are, of course, seeing wide-ranging developments that the suppliers in the defence industry are currently providing all the Member States of NATO and, of course, other countries with the necessary equipment. That is why, and to ensure continuity, we are setting up such a fund, such a budget fund. We'll talk about this in the Council of Ministers, of course. I really believe that the rulers of Defence, who we help where they can, will do everything in their power to ensure that it is done as quickly as possible. That doesn't take away the money. The money is all needed and is also spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u345	I like all of that, but on a defence budget of the European Union, what is the figure of 6, 7 or perhaps 8 billion in the meantime, I find 1.2 billion, at least more than a billion which remains on the shelf... I think a fund and a slide is fantastic, but I don't think people understand all that. What one wants is for the money to be spent meaningfully on staff, materials, missions or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u346	We will!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u347	No. The Prime Minister says, "We will." But just because there's more than a billion left means that it's still not in order in the defense after all these years. I want both leaders to send an overview before the Defence budget, not only of how they are going to ensure that there is money in the pot for the future, but also of how it is going to be spent on the things we have agreed on next year. Can I have the undertaking that we will be told by the Defense Department whether things are in order and whether the rulers there are setting the right priorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u348	I can promise you that, but I would like to detox Mr Pechtold first. I think that in his question there is an assumption that I do not agree with. I agree, however, that you can spend money for a certain year, but that is not always possible. You can't do that if you buy F-35s, for example. They are delivered on a multi-annual basis, but that is an obligation that needs to be entered into. So you put money in some kind of savings fund so you can have it as soon as those things get handed over. Then you don't have to take it out of the budget for that year. So let's not get the idea here that the defense has windfalls and that the money goes to the general funds. I'll take a look at Mr. Hoekstra. I just don't think that's true. That money's all being spent. I think two things are mixed up, first of all the picture that, until at least recently, Defense did not have the internal finances properly in order. I thought it was a lot better now. Here's what we're gonna do. Let's have the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State describe what's going on with these financial accounts. I'll separate that from the fact that it takes a few years for you to spend new money you spend. So let them explain exactly what is going on with that image of lying on the shelf. In the end, I think that's a piggy bank you'll need to pay for what you're buying later. And let them explain exactly how they try to fix everything as quickly as possible when it comes to recruitment and staffing. Then we will sort out these three things and I think Mr Pechtold's question has also been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u349	I also have a question about the defense. I also hope that enough good people can be found. It will be quite a challenge to be able to attract people again in the coming period, even if there is money. That is one of the drawbacks of yo-yo policy. First a lot of money went off of course and people flowed out; now money comes in, but you don't just have those people back. My question was actually about the long term. I would like to hear a little more colour in the words of the Prime Minister. He says that it is a matter of political consideration and that it has to be, but it is all difficult. Is his commitment really that after this cabinet period too, so how it is now in the states and technically in the basic path, it doesn't go down any further? Are we really committed to continuing to move in the right direction towards 2%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u350	That's what we're all committed to, because that's an agreement we've all made. It only works politically so that additional decisions on expenditure have to be taken in order to achieve this. And then such an additional expenditure decision is always taken in a weighting with the other things where that money can go. That is always a political consideration in a coalition. It is no different, and that will also apply here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u351	I understand that, but I noticed something. You wouldn't have heard me now if the percentage we spend had continued to rise neatly, even in view of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u352	That's going down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u353	It's collapsing again. And that means that you also have to fight hugely for the next period to move forward, because you're actually catching up again. So shouldn't the commitment now be to see how you can improve that perspective for the longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u354	That is why we are going to draw up such a national plan for how we intend to implement these agreements. But I do not want to give the impression here that suddenly a pot of money is available, because if you want to close the gap between 1.23% and 2% in 2023, I will do it with an estimate of 5 to 6 billion extra. So far, we haven't agreed to that. So what we are going to do in the coming period, as we agreed in the Defence Note, is to see how the economy is developing and what scope there is for additional expenditure. But it always remains a political consideration in a coalition how to divide it over the various important goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u355	The Prime Minister spoke a while ago about child care. I thought that was an important moment. That is what my group has raised. The Prime Minister's real commitment is that we are still looking at this autumn, for the WHO Youth Services, whether we should not ensure that youth care can continue to interfere with this 18-plus problem. I have one supplementary question on that. If we decide to do so, we will also need additional resources. I do not see it in the budget yet. Is that also part of the reflection that the cabinet is going to make?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u356	No, it has to be within the existing budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u357	Then I am glad that I asked this question, because we can see that there is already enormous pressure within the funds of youth care and that the deficits are piling up. So if we are going to give an extra job to youth care, to do something for 18-plus young people, then that cannot be done within the existing budget. Then you will really have to make other choices, and that is why I am not asking for amounts to be mentioned or for very firm commitments to be made, but that the Prime Minister at least indicates that we will review the budget for youth care and that there is also the possibility that funds will be added to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u358	I do not want to give the impression in the budgetary procedure that we now suddenly have a pot ready to make extra money there. There isn't one. But here's what we're gonna do. It is a competence of municipalities and I have already outlined that the 18-year-old limit is already semipermeable in foster care and youth aid. So there's no hard limit of 18. At the same time, it is said that there are young people who would need extended youth assistance. The number goes up to 30,000. There is an opinion from the Health and Health Council. That is what we are considering, so I am not saying anything yet. We come up with a cabinet position on that. Mr Klaver rakes that in and wants a pot of money next to it. I get that, it's his role in this, but I have to cut back his expectations, because I wasn't there yet. We have that advice. We come up with a reaction and we take it one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u359	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u360	I'm rounding up. I am familiar with the possibility of municipalities doing something for young people over the age of 18, only then they must have already bought that care. But what's the whole point? They don't have the money to do that. We can say that municipalities have to deal with this and that they can, but the point is that we have to deliver the money. I really wish that here, in the context of the General Political Reviews, we are talking about the future, we are talking about our children, that his vulnerable children also indicate to the Prime Minister that it is possible to discuss that extra money will be provided for youth care to solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u361	I am defending next year's budget here. There's not a lot of money hidden in there all of a sudden. That budget is what it is. The cabinet is coming up with a serious response to that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u362	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u363	And will highlight all aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u364	I would like to say a few words about the agreements made in Wales and the 2%. Does the Prime Minister say that I am following the agreements I made on behalf of the Netherlands as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u365	I'm not doing that on my own. That's up to the coalition. Yes, please! But I can imagine that in such a coalition, there are several considerations in such a cabinet. The Wales Investment Pledge is working towards 2%. The first problem you see now is that you deviate from it. After an increase, that percentage drops again, and that is because the economy is developing so rapidly. Here you see a small disadvantage of high economic growth: expenditure as a percentage of national income is falling. The Wales pledge is working to 2% in 2024. That goes over this cabinet period. It says in the Defense Note that we realize that. That means that in balancing all the things you would like to spend money on, you have to look at that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u366	I understand. When the pledge was done, the cabinet at the time knew that there would still be Cabinets. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar het is wel gedaan. 2024 is dichtbij.]] We have to be honest, too. At some point, we have to go to NATO to say that we are not fulfilling our pledge. Unless, at some point, we look at what needs to be done to achieve the goal. Those are the two things that matter. They're both not easy, but one day we're gonna have to figure out what we're really gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u367	The pledge has some ambiguity because it's working towards it. The first problem is that we are getting rid of it right now. Again, that is what we are going to talk about, including in the coalition. I can easily imagine that there are other wishes living with the four parties, at least that is my experience. That is also very logical and there is nothing wrong with that. We also need to see whether economic growth is sustained in this way. I sincerely hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u368	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u369	I'm ready for the next cup, but I've also gotten hungry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u370	I suggest we suspend for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u371	Half an hour? And then the settlement first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u372	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u373	I'll suspend for half an hour for a short lunch break. Then we start with the arrangement and then we continue with the debate.
