ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the informal European summit in Salzburg. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u2	Yesterday, the President of the European Commission kicked off her last year. It should be a speech on the state of the European Union, but it was ultimately about President Juncker's wish list for a federal Europe. It is my heartfelt wish to flicker Juncker's shopping list in the trash bin once and for all, but we will have elections for that. What does the Prime Minister think of Juncker's proposal that the European Public Prosecutor's Office should once again carry out a new task, namely to track down terrorists, before it actually gets off the ground? Isn't the secret services working together enough? The SP considers it undesirable that intelligence work should become a European task rather than a national task subject to our democratic rules. We would like to agree with the Prime Minister that he should oppose this miserable plan in Salzburg. Juncker pretends that the answer to advancing the far right is'more Brussels', giving up even more of our control over, for example, taxation and foreign policy. This unelected solar king of the European Union advocates European sovereignty. Can the Prime Minister explain what he means by that? In the European Union there is a great deal of division, but not about the dogma of the so-called single internal market. This internal market is not a natural phenomenon, it is a question of political choice. Dogmatic dealing with the movement of goods, services, capital and people harms the interests of people, especially those of democracy. For anyone who suggests that there should be a brake on, for example, flash capital or the permanent influx of cheap labour, or wants to arrange for company employees to have control over shareholders, will be portrayed as a fool: that cannot be done according to European rules! If Juncker is to blame, the British will be punished for the Brexit through this dogma of the indivisibleness of the internal market. Does the Minister share the view that the indivisibleness of the internal market must remain the focus of the Brexit? Does he realize that there will inevitably be a border on the Irish island and that that will mean the end of the Good Friday agreements? Is it really the case that the European Commission and the European Council want to move so hard towards 'no deal', with all the economic risks involved? Where Member States hold on to each other with this damaging dogma of the indivisibleity of that single market, 'everything for large companies', because that is what is underneath it, we see great division in other issues, for example in how we deal with refugees. The borders are gone, because that is good for internal power, but there is no solution to how we deal with people who have fled. While people drown again in the Mediterranean, there were embarrassing scenes about boats that couldn't dock anywhere and there are even suicide attempts by children in the Greek refugee camps, Europe and the Member States are failing to find solutions in this area. Addressing root causes Why are people fleeing or why are they on their way to getting it economically better? It is the most important solution, but as far as the SP is concerned, it is also about creating legal migration routes. Why don't we take the procedures to the people instead of driving the people into the hands of smugglers? If we examine this seriously and take it seriously in a good way, the European Union can invite people instead of taking the unsafe route from the Mediterranean or Sahara. Does the Prime Minister share the view that we should first have reception in Europe and procedures in order in Europe before the discussion is launched outside the Union? The Scientific Council for Government Policy issued an interesting report two weeks ago. One thing the Council notes is that there are hardly any or no investigations into the procedures to see whether people are fleeing war, violence or persecution, or whether they are coming here for a better life and for work. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue at the informal summit for faster procedures and to use good research to that end? As far as the SP is concerned, seven days should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this week I spoke with two Dutch doctors. They worked at camp Moria on Lesbos this summer. If you listen to their stories, your hair will rise. In Moria, 9,000 refugees are staying in a place calculated at a maximum of 2,500. Every day 50 to 60 are added. Their situation is literally hopeless. It may take just a year for their asylum applications to be dealt with and then another year before they become clear on what happens next. In the meantime, they're in a camp where literally every square meter is occupied. There's hardly any water, there's not enough toilets and there's hardly any security. If there is a fight, the police close the fence almost daily and shoot in tear gas. Afterwards, volunteers take care of the wounded. I know that the EU supports Greece for the reception of refugees and that the responsibility ultimately lies in Athens, but will the Prime Minister, when it comes to migration next week, please address these inhumane abuses, which should be unthinkable in the EU? I hope he agrees to that. So far, 70,000 refugees have crossed the Mediterranean Sea this year. This is considerably less than in previous years, but they all end up in three countries. What will a solidarity system look like? That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. He always says: first the numbers go down and then solidarity becomes easier to organize. But those numbers are now lower than they have been for a long time. Now is the time for solidarity. What is the situation with regard to the package for a new common EU asylum system? Unfortunately, the number of deaths in the Mediterranean is not falling. This year there are already 1,500; Mrs Leijten also spoke about this. How come this doesn't work? That was the target, wasn't it? Meanwhile, NGOs are increasingly making the rescue work impossible. In Malta the Dutch Sea-Watch has been on the chain for two months. No one can explain why. As a flag State, the Netherlands has a special responsibility for this. Will the Prime Minister, when he sees his Maltese and his other colleagues next week, make an effort to ensure that the Sea-Watch and other ships can do their rescue work? Next week, Madam President, the conclusions of the last European summit at the end of June will be discussed. It was said that we could urgently look forward to plans for landing platforms and controlled centres in the EU. How's it going? I'd like to ask the Prime Minister. Then I'll come to Hungary. Yesterday, the Sargentini report was adopted in the European Parliament with the required two-thirds majority. So now is the European Council and the Ministers' move. Does the Prime Minister share the conclusions of the report? Is he going to make an effort to get an Article 7 procedure started? And how do you prevent this from happening in the event of unanimity required to take effective action, as Poland and Hungary have already said, that bad guys are going to keep each other out of each other's hands? Mr. Chairman. I have two short points to make. Unanimity now also applies to foreign and security policy. The committee wants to get rid of that, as we heard yesterday from Mr Juncker's State of the Union, because the EU needs to be able to operate more effectively abroad. My group believes that this is a good idea. How does the Netherlands stand in this regard, I ask the Prime Minister. And then, finally, I have a couple of comments on the Brexit, of course. To be honest, the annotated agenda doesn't hold very well. "Support for Barnier," "balanced package," "as soon as possible," "Keep unit." That's what it said two years ago. Time is really running out. What political initiatives can we expect from the 27? The Prime Minister had tea with Mrs May this summer, which happens to rhyme, but I didn't mean to be funny in the garden of the Catshuis. It looked good, but what exactly was agreed? What can we expect politically from this Prime Minister? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV Group. Mr. Van Ojik and the Prime Minister, you're not allowed to talk to each other during the meeting. Yeah, I saw the Prime Minister started. I've seen it, but I really can't. It's not supposed to be. Mrs Maeijer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Next Thursday, Prime Minister Rutte will attend an informal summit in Salzburg. It is a summit for which the General Political Reviews, perhaps the most important debate of the year, are interrupted. You'd think the Prime Minister would have a very good reason. Perhaps this time a sovereignty will be returned to the Member States. Are our borders closing? Or does the Prime Minister tell his colleagues that the Netherlands wants to become independent again? But, Mr. Chairman, we don't really know. Because there's no official agenda yet and we just got a confidential piece thrown over the fence. And without an agenda, the cabinet apparently doesn't know exactly what the Prime Minister is going to do there in Salzburg either. The cabinet letter received by the Chamber often states "the expectation" that there is something to talk about: migration, internal security, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the Brexit. But what and how is unclear. And it does not rule out the possibility that this could also be about something completely different, such as perhaps the last speech by Juncker in the European Parliament and his plea for vetoing foreign policy and taxation. Or perhaps about the European Commission's proposal for a full border police force, or about the Africa package of EUR 44 billion. It could also be about Hungary and the European Parliament's frontal attack on Hungary as a sovereign country. Perhaps we are talking about the new multiannual budget and the Dutch contribution, which the Brussels money wolves need to raise considerably. But what could, of course, be done is to waste valuable time in Salzburg. Because European summits don't have a good track record in that respect. For example, the pre-summer migration summit did not prevent an Afghan terrorist using a German residence permit from using the free movement of Schengen and then stabbing tourists in Amsterdam. The summit also failed to prevent Spanish bathers from being surprised this summer with boatloads of migrants putting ashore, or asylum seekers using NGOs continue to try to enter Italian and Maltese waters. We would like to have clarity from the Prime Minister. What exactly is on the agenda of the informal summit? What proposals will be discussed? And what is the status of the European Council's agreement to establish reception centres in the European Union? Is it true that there will be a pilot project first and, if so, where? What does the cabinet think of a permanent EU corps of 10,000 border guards? How many of them will have to come from the Netherlands? What about the transfer of sovereignty? What about the Africa package? Where are all these billions supposed to come from? And is the cabinet now fundamentally opposed to extending the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor's Office or does the cabinet think only the timing of the discussion is too early? And who exactly appoints the European Chief Prosecutor? We all know that Brussels does not have a good track record when it comes to appointments. Is there an updated mandate given to Barnier at the summit? If so, what mandate is that? Mr. Chairman. If it is not the European Commission, it is the European Parliament that shows the true nature of the European Union: expansion at the expense of nation states. The European Public Prosecutor's Office has not even been set up or powers need to be extended. Democratic decisions in Hungary are torpedoed by an undemocratic parliament, while Orbán defends European values better than the rest of them, by stopping illegal migration. He deserves our support for that rather than the criminal record. There are suggestions for turning in the vetos that we still have. If it is up to the European Commission, our Marechaussee will soon be at the European external borders to guide asylum seekers in. Because closing borders, of course, is not the intention. Mr. Chairman. This does not promise much, even though the cabinet is showing that it is an informal summit, on which no decisions are of course taken or conclusions are drawn. At least it is not getting much more pleasant in Salzburg, because Orbán is sitting at the table with half a declaration of war from the EP in his pocket, Italy is not threatening to pay his contribution anymore and the United Kingdom wants to get out. I think this is a good time for the Netherlands to say goodbye to the European Union as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Sometimes the EU reminds me of such a Rubik's cube, such a twist thing, you know, with beautiful, brightly coloured side surfaces in six different colors. You're gonna spin it, and then what's the story? You can't get it back on the color surfaces. I know that from experience, because I got a cube like this with the pictures of my grandchildren on it and nowadays all these grandchildren are confused. Yeah, at least on that cube, huh, 'cause everything else is fine. You can also see it in European politicians. They're puzzling themselves around and they just can't figure it out to find the solution. Although? Sometimes everything falls into place. Instead of that chaotic, changing color palette, you see the contours of the solution. And then all sides indeed have the beautiful, own, bright color again. Mr. Chairman. What I want to say is that, at European level, there is a right solution that does justice to those different colours, to the individuality of the Member States. See also that beautiful report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. But when I listen to Mr Juncker's argument, for example yesterday, I hear that he sees a very different Rubik's cube than the Scientific Council for Government Policy and the SGP. Then we are talking about shared sovereignty: road with red, yellow and green; Europe blue for everyone! Of course, that's not the way we should go. I would like to make four brief points. Firstly, that is migration. Fortunately, the number of migrants has declined significantly over the past period. However, the way the EU handles border surveillance and return concerns the SGP. Mr Juncker felt that the EU should set up 10,000 border guards. That's the upside-down world. First, Member States were deprived of the space to take measures themselves for the effective return of out-of-work foreigners and then we have to spend billions on additional EU staff. The problem is not the lack of officials, but the lack of powers. My specific question to the Prime Minister is: is the cabinet going to make an effort to return the powers for more effective return to the Member States? That seems to me to be a rather harsh condition for further planning. What is the situation with regard to the reception and asylum opportunities of the real refugees, who should be the ones most concerned with us? The second point is the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I am not going to keep a long story about this; colleagues have already done so. As far as we are concerned, enlargement of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is not the issue, but is our impression, reading the documents, that this is not so much a principled rejection from the cabinet but only a 'not yet'? Or does the government also fundamentally reject the extension of the tasks of the European Public Prosecutor's Office? Mr. Chairman. Then the Brexit. Just a question: what about the strengthening of customs? Will decentralised control posts also be used to ease exports if border controls are re-implemented? That's what it's getting more and more like. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the fourth point, Hungary. It is not on the agenda, but it is extremely topical. Yesterday, Hungary was placed in the suspect's bench by the European Parliament. Hungary is contrary to European values, as it is said. However, without being an unconditional defender of everything that is going on in Hungary, the SGP recognises Hungary's right to make its own choices. My specific question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister share the criticism of former Secretary of State Gabor, even with a Hungarian background, of the European Parliament's action against Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u9	I would first like to nominate Mr Bishop for the political metaphor of the year, with his cube and the six planes. I loved that. Compliments for that. However, I thought that the last part of his speech was very much in line with what is happening in Hungary, and that Europe should not interfere too much. Did I listen to that right? Or is Mr Bishop, is his party, indeed critical of a number of violations of fundamental human rights taking place there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you. No, you didn't listen to that right. Let me just put that clearly. I have deliberately put it this way: without wanting to stand up as a SGP as a defender of everything that is happening in Hungary. I did not have time to specify this, but you give me the opportunity to do so, so thank you for that. I do believe that Hungary has the right to make its own choices. We cannot deny that the current government party has a large majority and that there is also a democratic policy there. I have carried out a work visit there during the period of receipt, and I have seen the way in which the exclusion of migrants is carried out. I'm not excited about that. On the contrary, I am very critical of that. That's what I'm gonna tell you there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u11	I know that the SGP is very much on track for the Member States to be leading. She also wrote a note on it the other day. That is what the SGP sees in Europe. D66 disagrees. We believe that there are a number of major cross-border issues that Europe needs to take up. I don't want to talk about that right now. That's the difference. I know. But when Mr Bishop says that Mr Orbán has been democratically elected and that everything he does is legitimized, that is really in what you say, he ignores the fact that there are also constitutional aspects to a common union of values such as the European Union. You are completely ignoring that by saying that you can do anything by a democratically elected majority. I believe that the SGP as a party should reflect on the tension between democracy and the rule of law. What about the SGP when it comes to Hungary? For I think that you are really going too far to legitimise democratically the violation of fundamental human rights by Mr Orbán.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u12	Of course there are comments to be made. The report which led to yesterday's vote also makes these comments. But there are also comments to be made about that report. What I have seen from some distance is that Hungary's criticism of the report has not been properly addressed. I am not in a position to tell you exactly what is or is not going well in Hungary. I can see that Hungary complies with basic democratic values when it comes to the basic democratic processes of governing the country. Of course, we see what happens to the judiciary, to dismiss and appoint judges. But there are some comments to make. This requires more nuance than the report reveals. There's a similar story in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u13	I would like to make it clear that this is not on the agenda of the informal European summit. I do know it's topical. I hear Mr Omtzigt saying that everything is being talked about. Of course it is. Very briefly, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u14	You can always make notes. The nuance of all kinds of things is, in itself, a good political approach. But when you talk about democracy, I am talking about democracy in the European Parliament, where a large majority of the political family to which Mr Orbán's party belongs also voted in favour of Mrs Sargentini's resolution. In doing so, there is a broad, political, democratic majority which says that the issues that are taking place in Hungary cannot be tolerated and that sanctions are in their place. If you are so democratic, you should also look at that democratic angle. Because I think that you are really going too far in the sort of legitimising things that really cannot be tolerated, because in Europe we have also agreed on a number of values and human rights with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u15	Of course, Mr Verhoeven is free to embrace that. I think it is extremely unwise that the European Parliament has slammed the door for a discussion with Hungary with a huge blow. You don't make any changes there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u16	It might be good to know a little bit more precisely where the SGP is. Because the last thing Mr Bishop says is that he does not think it is wise to close the door. I think that the dialogue with Hungary is a permanent one and must be and will continue to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u17	Not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u18	...but that's not the point. However, the report adopted yesterday by more than a two-thirds majority speaks of damaging the freedom of the press, talking about systematic corruption, talking about nepotism, talking about banning organisations that want to help migrants. It is full and full of examples of things that are not even European, but that are universal and that we have universal agreements on. Does Mr Bishop say 'that report is wrong' or does he say 'the report is good, but I do not think we have the right to address Hungary'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u19	Here too, some nuance fits. Look, there are cases in the report that just hit the nail on the head. There are also things I think: yes, but wait a minute, if you look at the context... If you look at the appointment procedures of judges, you can of course give a very ademocratic explanation. It can also be embedded in a wider total. I think that these things are not sufficiently taken into account in the report. Hungary responded to this itself. I do not think that Hungary has done enough with this criticism. That is why I find the decision taken yesterday by the European Parliament by a two-thirds majority simply untimely. The debate on the further democratisation process will certainly not benefit either. I was very pleased with the criticism made by former Secretary of State Gabor and I hope that the Prime Minister will support him in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u20	I hope, quite frankly, that the Prime Minister will not side with the former Secretary of State Gabor. But Mr Bishop says: you must always see this kind of human rights violations in their context. That is precisely the argument that all countries worldwide who are guilty of human rights violations are always using it. It would be a credit to Mr Bishop if he said that it was a universal standard that countries should adhere to regardless of the national context. That's where I'd like to find him by our side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u21	With all due respect to Mr Van Ojik, I think this is symptomatic of the way Hungary is handled. I'm trying to write a nuanced story that there's a lot to be done on that report. It is then said that it would be a credit to Mr Bishop to acknowledge that this report denounces human rights violations in Hungary. As if everything in that report relates to human rights violations! No, sometimes it's just about political discussions. There are also cases where you say: hey, wait a minute, this is violation of human rights...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u22	I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u23	Then I am prepared to continue the conversation with Hungary in those nuances. 'Cause that conversation is killing me right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr. Bishop...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u25	...and the door has been slammed shut by the EP. I think that is extremely unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u26	I suggest you continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u27	Brilliant thought, Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u28	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. The SGP wants an EU of variation, adaptation and aspiration, to put it mildly. Not massive stubbornness, but individuality in connectedness. A Europe where the different colours of the cube are appreciated. This is the best guarantee for a strong, stable and future-proof Europe. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you. Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u31	I doubted for a moment, Mr President, also because you said that it was not actually on the agenda of the summit, but it is topical. Having heard all the answers: would the SGP accept a democratically adopted law in a Member State of the European Union, which says that aid to Christians is forbidden and that you wait for prison time if you do so? Would the SGP accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u32	The answer is, of course, no, but Mrs Leijten knows that. I would like to add something more to that. I do not think this comparison is entirely pure. When it comes to a belief in life, that is different from when it comes to illegal immigrants. That is what this law prohibits: aid to illegal immigrants. I have already made a comment on the way in which Hungary gives substance to migration policy. I am not embracing this and I am not defending it, but I do not think that the comparison is entirely correct in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u33	The aid to people who do not yet have a right of residence in a country is also a human right. I made it so sharp because among these illegal migrants, of course, there can be just Christians. This includes people who are being prosecuted. I find it so sad that we have reached a point in our European Union where it is considered acceptable to make aid to people, whoever they may be, punishable. I also find it very sad that the SGP is defending this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u34	No, the SGP doesn't defend that. This is part of my comments on migration policy. I believe that this should continue to be the subject of discussion. With the door slammed shut, nothing ever changes there. I have been to the shelter camps and I have read the reports of the human rights organisations talking about prisons. I have to agree with them. I have also indicated on the spot that that is the impression I have. I'm not gonna defend that. I am not going to defend everything around it either, but I do think you should keep the door open, otherwise you will never get better and you will only get hardening of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr President, you will find that this is a relevant point for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yeah, I did notice that. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister helped me just passing by reminding me that pensions are not on the agenda. I didn't miss that. That, by the way, indicates how much he is concerned about what we think about it. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing again today the preparation for a so-called informal European Council in Salzburg. The 50PLUS Group is increasingly starting to wonder how informal these meetings actually are. No decisions are foreseen and no Council conclusions are adopted, but the Prime Minister cannot deny that agreements are being made at such meetings. I would like to clarify exactly what is happening and what we hear about it. 50PLUS is deeply concerned about developments in the area of migration, one of the most important issues at next week's summit. In June agreements were made on this subject, which were presented with some drum roll as a kind of breakthrough. However, our firm impression is that nothing has been achieved since then. Yesterday, President Juncker came up with just the proposal to extend the Frontex border surveillance system to 10,000 border guards over the next two years, with a huge price tag. However, in order to be able to assess such a proposal properly, we must be able to assess it in conjunction with other measures. I would like a response from the Prime Minister on this connection. The question to the Prime Minister is: where are the measures discussed in June? What country has applied as a shelter for refugees picked up at sea? So far, negotiations have been conducted by ship. That's inhumane. And which country within or outside the EU has applied for the establishment of the so-called disembarkation platforms? On the German side too, it is quite quiet. What does the Prime Minister expect from this summit? When are buttons cut? In relation to the problem of migration, my group has read with approval Mr Juncker's comment on the adaptation of relations with Africa. No longer a relationship of dependence, but meeting each other as equal partners, with the EU working to help improve the economic and social situation in Africa. We agree with Mr Juncker that business can play an important role in this. We would like to hear from the Prime Minister what his appreciation is of Mr Juncker's words on this subject. This may well be a new beginning to an improvement in relations, including economic relations, between Europe and Africa, which it has missed very much. The same applies to Juncker's plea for greater unity in Europe. That runs like a thread through the speech, but at the same time he clearly indicated at the end that countries that are not so close to the rule of law or freedom of expression can count on a tough approach. I ask the Prime Minister: will this bring us to a united European Union? If you look at recent developments, can you not speak of 'a continent of openness and tolerance', as Mr Juncker described the EU yesterday? In this context, how does the Prime Minister view the European Parliament's decision to deprive Hungary of the right to vote within the European Union? I agree with Mr Van Ojik on this point. In the area of internal security, new rules will be introduced to get terrorist messages off the Internet within an hour. Fine, even if we're wondering who's going to judge that. In this context, I would also like to make a comment on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. 50PLUS is not in favour of this, but the Netherlands has now joined. Fortunately, in the annotated agenda, the cabinet states that it is not in favour of extending the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor with matters such as the fight against terrorism. Mr Juncker made a very strong case for this yesterday. I'd like a clear answer from the Prime Minister. The 50PLUS Group wholeheartedly supports the cabinet's position. The existing structures work well in practice, so let us wait for the first evaluation of the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor in the fight against fraud. We expect the Prime Minister in Salzburg to make it quite clear that there can be no question of extending tasks in the Netherlands. Can he promise that here? As far as we are concerned, the term 'no support' is weak. Finally, Mr President. Can the Prime Minister say anything about the latest state of the MFF and the Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are important points on the agenda of the forthcoming summit, which is actually a continuation of the Council at the end of June. I refer to regional landing platforms and controlled centres when it comes to migration. We are looking forward to the more concrete proposals and the follow-up steps. Maybe the Prime Minister already knows more and he can give a shot ahead of time. Does he know exactly the difference between those controlled centers and the existing hotspots? I can already hear the Prime Minister say no, so he is waiting for the situation, but perhaps he can ask for it. The hotspots are not working well, but what is the difference with the controlled centres now being presented as a new idea? Are we talking about the current situation at this informal summit? Mr Van Ojik and others have already mentioned this. We have been to Lesbos as a committee and have seen how shocking, degrading and embarrassing the situation is there. Now I know, like Mr Van Ojik, that the answer is always that the European Union has given a lot of money to Greece, billions even, but the fact is that the situation there is still not improving. When will this great pressure from Europe come on Greece to see with them how we can improve that situation? We can send people to the moon, but we can't take people properly on our own continent. If we are in Iran, we will be confronted with these human rights violations if we ourselves denounce human rights violations. This has got to be different sometime. Winter's on its way. I hope that the Prime Minister will denounce this poignant situation there. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the regional landing platforms, a complex term for actually Africa deals, which we have been talking about for a long time from Brussels to Africa. Which countries have applied to accommodate these people and to do the selection there? They're the same questions all the time. We know about Tunisia, where Mr Van Ojik has been. They don't want to. We know Algeria is sending people into the desert. We certainly don't need to talk about Libya. What specific countries are in the process of organising these regional landing platforms? It's good that plans are being made. UNHCR and IOM are making plans, but there must be countries that are willing to receive and select those people there. It is good to read that the use of the cabinet underlines that, even if people are to be taken care of, human rights must be respected. We're not sending people back to unsafe countries. The cabinet is very clear about this, also in line with the coalition agreement. So my group is very pleased with that. Then the Brexit. The members of the Council will discuss it again. How does the Prime Minister see the progress of the Brexit negotiations? We hear of the possibilities and the chances of a no deal, which would really be very damaging for the Netherlands that is so dependent on his trade with England. We must prevent that at all times. As far as he is concerned, is the negotiator doing enough? I'd like to hear his input at that point. A word about the Juncker Commission's plans, and I shall return to the migratory flows. What difference will the 10,000 Frontex employees make now? When we read that so many people have died on the Mediterranean, my question is how will these employees prevent people from crossing the border? Aren't we working too much on the back and don't we have to work a lot on the front? If we're talking about Lesbos and the other hotspots, why don't we send IND specialists like the Netherlands and other countries when it sticks to that flow rate? How can we, together with Greece, ensure that this flow goes faster than that? Finally, Mr President. In line with the cabinet, we do not believe that extending the mandate of the EPPO can be considered. Joint fight against terrorism, yes, and coordination is urgently needed, but there are opportunities through Eurojust and Europol. They're effective, let's take advantage of them first. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr Voordewind only has four minutes to speak, so he had no time to say anything about Hungary. Moreover, it is not on the agenda as we have just said. I want to ask him something anyway. His group in the European Parliament abstained. It is good, also for the discussion that we have just had, to hear from Mr Voordewind where the Second Parliamentary Group of the Christian Union stands on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u42	It is clear that we have serious concerns about Hungary. We also agree with large parts of the report when it comes to not wanting to include refugees who are burden sharing is extremely important when it comes to the position of the Roma, when it comes to the freedom of education that is under pressure and when it comes to the role of the media that is actually being contained in such a way that it is really getting out of hand. We all agree with these conclusions and concerns. At the same time, our representative Peter van Dalen in the European Parliament has also called on the European Parliament to go to Hungary with this report and to say: this, this and these situations must really change now, you will have six months before that and if that really does not happen... And we know, Mr President, that previous threats from the European Parliament have been successful. Laws have been amended at the request of the European Parliament. In the end, the Central European University is not closed under pressure from the European Parliament. Our commitment is to give Hungary another six months, to make concrete what needs to be done at that time and to ensure that changes take place instead of closing the door now and thus also the dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u43	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u44	The vast majority of the European Parliament has made the right assessment that this discussion with Hungary has been going on for a long time. It is not from the last six months, it has been going on for at least four or five years. It is precisely in the context of an Article 7 procedure that the pressure on Hungary could be increased, as it is now doing with Poland. It is not what Mr Bishop suggested, that you close the door. The door won't close. The pressure is increased by such a procedure. The dialogue with Poland on what is going wrong is now, in a manner of speaking, more intense than it has ever been. That would be the case with Hungary. In the end, the Christian Union has made a different assessment. So in six months, yes, if there's no progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u45	We have seen that pressure and negotiations with Hungary can lead to results. We have seen this in the various laws that have been taken back. In contrast to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we still have confidence that there is more tension in the matter, that with this report in hand, with serious allegations towards democracy and the rule of law, and with all these arguments Hungary could be put under further pressure. That is perhaps a different consideration from that of the Green Left Group. But we are now seeing Hungary's reaction. We see resistance and coalitions being forged in order to veto the Council in the near future. The question is whether this has been the right step. Our assessment was: had it been for another six months, would have gone another, last mile with Hungary. Then perhaps we would have achieved more than Hungary throwing its ass against the crib.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A historic European year is ahead of us. On the horizon we see the European elections in May 2019. The forthcoming Brexit and also the negotiations on the multiannual budget will ensure that the eyes will be on Brussels again in the near future. That was, of course, the case yesterday. Juncker held his last official State of the Union speech, explaining his plans for the coming period. D66 welcomes its proposals on cybersecurity, but also on a smaller European Commission. And also the disappearance of unanimity in voting on foreign policy sounded like music to our ears. The proposals on migration and security will be discussed at the summit next week. I am very curious to hear the Prime Minister's first reaction, which, of course, was on the pipe again yesterday. Mr. Chairman. The vote on the report on Hungary was also eagerly awaited. We were just talking about it. In this report, MEP Judith Sargentini states that Orbán is putting an end to the free press, free science and the functioning of the rule of law. Today's Hungary should never have joined the Union. As far as D66 is concerned, the European Union must act hard against any country that violates European values and universal human rights. I just said that to Mr Bishop. Does the Prime Minister agree with the conclusion of this report that the Article 7 procedure should be initiated? Can he promise that he will support the proposal to activate Article 7 in the Council and also try to persuade other countries to do so? I'd like a response. With regard to the discussion we have just had on the contribution of the SGP, I would like to add that D66 considers it dangerous to place national sovereignty above universal human rights. This seemed to be the path that the SGP was taking, and that was also under the guise of democracy, as if the rule of law had to depart from it, while the two had to be pursued in such a shaky balance. I was sorry that Mr Bishop seemed to lose sight of that. The Brexit is the next topic. The newspapers write that the extension of the guidelines for the Brexit negotiator Barnier is on the agenda, so that negotiations can be conducted better so that a deal can be concluded in November. We don't read anything about this in the papers. I wonder why. Can the Prime Minister explain the Dutch position? Mr. Chairman. My party is concerned about the Brexit, especially because of the Dutch in the UK who are affected by the Brexit and the great uncertainty in which they are sitting. In preparation for a no deal they are at the bottom of the list of priorities. The Minister of Foreign Affairs keeps saying, whatever is on the website, "It is unclear what your right of residence in the Netherlands is after the Brexit." Of course, that doesn't help these people. So I ask the Prime Minister to work in Brussels to ensure that, even in the case of a no-deal, the civil rights section of the Treaty of Accession continues to apply. I would also like to ask him to what extent he sees the possibilities for this, because this way we can give more certainty to the Dutch in the United Kingdom. That is absolutely necessary. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Finally, the appointment of Mr Selmayr. Last week, following a complaint by D66 MEPs and others, the European Ombudsman wrote that the flash designation of Martin Selmayr as Secretary-General of the European Commission points to maladministration. Strong conclusions, which should also have serious consequences as far as D66 is concerned. An appointment that receives the qualification of "maladministration" must simply be reversed. Can the Prime Minister make a commitment to this, and does he want to do so? And can he ensure that new, transparent procedures are put in place for the appointment of a Secretary-General of the Commission? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u48	Let me say that I fully agree with Mr Verhoeven's last point. It almost scares me! I'm gonna wonder what I'm doing wrong. I am very much in favour of that question. I was just addressed in Mr Verhoeven's speech, but I was somewhat distracted, excused for that, and I thought I heard him make a link between the SGP's plea for respect for national sovereignty and the tension it creates with the establishment of a rule of law. Did I get that right, or was that misheard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u49	What I said was actually two parts. Mr Bishop is mixing these two parts a little bit now. The first thing I said was that the SGP gave me the idea that they consider national sovereignty to be more important than universal human rights, i.e. the integration of the European Union into the situation in Hungary, is particularly annoying because they do not have to interfere too much with Hungary's national sovereignty. In doing so, they ignore the fact that universal human rights are being violated there. The second thing I said is that you should not put the rule of law aside under the guise of democratic majorities. That's not how it works. A rule of law is of a very different order than a democratic majority. Anyone who says 'a majority of people voted for this man, so he can do anything' completely loses sight of the fact that we are also dealing with the rule of law and universal human rights. And I would like to draw Mr Bishop's attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u50	That is, in fact, a bit of a repetition of the interrupting debate we had with each other, and that does not add much. I renounce the idea that a rule of law could be sacrificed by a democratic majority. Of course, that remains a careful balance. That must remain in connection with each other. Let me confine myself to that. I distance myself from any suggestion that the SGP pushes towards 'they do not take it so closely with democratic values'. That is a great good thing, which we welcome wholeheartedly, and the rule of law is a carrying construct that we must cherish carefully. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u51	You've made your point, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u52	The suggestion was raised by the SGP itself when Mr Bishop was behind the chair. I'm glad he's coming back to it now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u53	I think this has changed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u54	It is, of course, dangerous to lose sight of the rule of law because there happens to be a democratic majority, as if it legitimises everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u55	That is also what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u56	The rule of law is independent of an election result. These are fundamental values that are intended in the longer term to protect human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u57	Mr President, if I may, very briefly. I hear Mr Verhoeven again saying that the suggestion was woken up by the SGP itself. No, the SGP did not give rise to that suggestion. Nor can it be derived from the argument I have made. What I have done is to introduce some nuances in the course of events that have been followed in relation to Hungary. That is different from suggesting that the rule of law is less important for the SGP or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u58	No, Mr Verhoeven, you can't respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u59	Of course I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u60	No, Mr Verhoeven, it goes on and on. I'm going to see Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yeah, it goes on and on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u62	You said what you wanted to say. The same applies to Mr Bishop. Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u63	As I understand Mr Verhoeven, the fact that a Member State may be deprived of the right to vote for him and for D66 may already be the highlight of the new European political year. That's how D66 would like to see it. You and your Europhile friends are all so proud of protecting fundamental values: democracy, freedom of expression, equality. In my opinion, Orbán is doing more alone to protect those fundamental values than the rest, than D66 and all your friends put together. My point is this. If you're so concerned about protecting fundamental values, shouldn't you even start looking at yourself, at D66 and all your boyfriends? Look at how you deal with ignoring referendum results, abolishing the referendum, adjusting the voting rules yesterday before the vote, with Islamicising our continent. Wouldn't it be better for you to take a look at yourself instead of others?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u64	Well, these are a lot of different ingredients together. Let me just respond to the first. The suggestion is raised that I would be pleased that a Member State should be deprived of the right to vote. Yes, if a Member State violates fundamental values and human rights and does not change them in any way after repeated calls and years of consultation, then I think it is very sensible that a large majority of the European Parliament has supported the proposal to use the Article 7 procedure to address that country and draw its consequences. I think that is absolutely a very good development that I am very positive about. I believe that the rest of Mrs Maeijer's interruption was completely out of the order of this debate. I think it's wise that I don't respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u65	Of course, mistakes have been made with the rapid enlargement of the European Union. That's under here, but I have another question, which is on the agenda. You'll like it, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns the European Public Prosecutor's Office. During the presentation of the coalition agreement last year, the D66 flag went out, because the Netherlands stopped its opposition. D66 would have dragged that out of the negotiations. The European Public Prosecutor's Office isn't even working yet or it gets new tasks if Juncker's involved, such as tracking and combating terrorism, a real intelligence task. Does D66 think that this should extend the European Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u66	D66 has always been in favour of a European Public Prosecutor's Office and D66 has always been in favour of tackling cross-border problems at European level. The debate on the European Public Prosecutor's Office was primarily about the fight against fraud, but if it turns out that there are other cross-border problems that need to be addressed at European level, whether or not in the form of a European Public Prosecutor's Office with more tasks, D66 looks very openly at these proposals. I am inclined at least not to shoot that directly, as Mrs Leijten seems to want to do. I understand the concern; perhaps let me try to give it some nuance. I understand the concern of a number of speakers here that things are constantly stretched. That is one of the major criticisms that Mrs Maeijer, Mrs Leijten and other speakers often have when it comes to the European Union, and I do not want to be blind to that. I myself have also said in a speech myself: stick to your words, do the big cross-border things and do not interfere everywhere; do not push everything up to the level of Europe, because there are also matters that need to be dealt with nationally or even municipally. I am absolutely in favour of that. But when it comes to cross-border terrorism, I think it is worth taking a serious look at the possibilities of tackling it at European level. I am not in that, like Mrs Maeijer, Mr Bishop and you, of the school that says: no, national sovereignty is more than anything. I say, look at what kind of problem suits the level of government. I believe that cross-border terrorism can perfectly match the European level of governance. So I'm open to that kind of proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u67	If you manage it at European level, we have a major democratic problem. That's our analysis. If the intelligence services are investigating you, that's deep. We make rules here, we supervise the intelligence services here, and if you invest that European, you lose that control. That is why we are critical of this, also because we have not yet seen the beginning of an analysis which would show that the exchange between intelligence services and their work would not go well. Of course, everything can always be improved, but putting it at European level, with which you no longer have control and which means that you are no longer democratic about it, is a big, big problem. It is the major problem of the European Union's thundering train. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the task of intelligence is absolutely not going to a European Public Prosecutor's Office that does not even exist yet. I'm sorry that D66, who still has "Democrats" in her name...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u68	This isn't an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u69	... doesn't see that the erosion of one's own democracy is ongoing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mrs. Leijten... This really isn't an interruption. This is a long input. You've just spoken for four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mr President, I repeat my last sentence: I regret that D66, who has the D in his name, does not see the permanent erosion of democracy taking place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mrs Leijten, Mrs Leijten... Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u73	Unbelievable... You'll allow it, too, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Leijten is done talking...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u74	Well, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u75	You say it's too long, and what do you give her as a present? Let her repeat how horrible I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u76	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u77	I can handle it all, but let me answer for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u78	No, you will not have the floor, Mrs Leijten. You may respond to this, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u79	I like it a lot, Mr. Chairman. The 'thinking train' is so far, but again pretending that D66 would not be democratic is, of course, bullshit. That does not fit in with this debate either. On the substance of Mrs Leijten's justified question, two things. If intelligence is to be done at European level, it is essential that there are very clear safeguards, which are not yet available on many fronts. So if you're gonna do that, you're gonna have to take care of it. Which surprises me, Mr. Chairman, in all honesty...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u80	Don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u81	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.................................................................................................................................................... I hear Mrs Leijten from the benches saying something like that is bullying, but that is not the case at all. I want to say something serious. Mrs Leijten pretends to be so well-organized here in the Netherlands with the intelligence services. She says that the standards and guarantees here seem to be well arranged. Well, I've heard Mrs. Leijten and her party over the past year about the Intelligence and Security Services Act, that it was all dramatic. But now it's suddenly the new European standard. And that is the hypocrisy of the SP: now you are pretending that it is all so well arranged in the national Member State of the Netherlands and that it is not possible at European level, when you said a year ago that it was all worthless, that there was no guarantee and that it was all dramatic. Now you're gonna be okay with it. So I'd think about that again if I were you. That is simply a substantive answer: guarantees must be regulated, if they are to be regulated at European level, they must be guaranteed at European level. If you think it is so well arranged in the Netherlands, you should have voted for that law and not pretend it was all so dramatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u82	That discussion has already been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u83	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u84	Short reaction, because Mrs Leijten naturally feels addressed. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mr. Chairman. I would like to state in one sentence what the position of the SP was on that law intelligence service, which Wiv, which also has been a referendum on and which the Dutch people do not want either. We then made the analysis that this instrument was not necessary for the intelligence services. We are in favour of proper detection, but such a towing net makes tracking more difficult than easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u86	Mr Van Rooijen. No, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u87	I object to the fact that those who interrupt can always say something twice, that you let them have the last word every time, and that I have to let everything get over me every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u88	Wait a minute. I'm in charge here, Mr Verhoeven. Don't get me mixed up in all this stuff. You have made a point to Mrs Leijten. It's true she started it. She made a point, she did not refer to you, she said why the SP then voted against that law. Period. That debate has taken place. I'm going to see Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u89	When I hear Mr Verhoeven on what powers the European Public Prosecutor should and should not be given on counter-terrorism, we have a clear position and I hear him on what should and can be done at European level, compared with national ones, I ask him where he draws the line to what is important, namely the principle of subsidiarity. When I hear you, it is the other way around: what Europe can do, they have to do, and the rest do the countries, because they can do so badly. I hear a totally different approach from an approach that the Netherlands generally has and my group, namely the principle of subsidiarity: what the countries themselves can do, they have to do themselves and Europe must address as little as possible the major issues that you have to do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u90	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u91	Where you draw the line between what European should and can do compared to what national should and can do. The question is obviously so complicated for you that I have to repeat it again. But you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u92	Be a little nice to each other!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u93	I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u94	Really! You can simply repeat your question without getting personal. Have you understood Mr Van Rooijen's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u96	You may respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u97	Well, I think Europe should do what Europe is good at and I think Member States should do what Member States are good at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u98	That's not really an answer, but I'd like to go into it with you at another time. But I note here that D66 is actually saying: what Europe can do is up to them. In other words, national powers are a sort of closing point. We have the opposite approach. Can you justify why you find that? You say that what Europe can do should be done. That's an open door, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u99	I didn't know your party was against open doors. But I think it is wise that the level of government should do what has the competence to deal with a particular issue. And when it comes to cross-border counter-terrorism, I think it makes sense to do so supranationally, so Europeanly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u100	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u101	Apart from the debate on open doors, that is what I was all about, and you know what I mean. But you are not yet giving an answer as to how you are basically separating what Europe can or should do from what national competences should be. I will come back to that at another time with your group and your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u102	I'm sure it is. Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now turn to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mr. Chairman. The idea of social democracy is that every person can be certain of his or her existence anywhere in the world and certainly in the Netherlands. The balance in that ideal is one of the difficult challenges when talking about migration. That's what you can see in the current discussion. We believe it is important to invest more in care in the region. At the same time I visited the camps in Jordan in the summer: Azraq, Mafraq and Za'atari. You can see that there are great developments there, but we're also failing. There is a risk of a deficit of EUR 4 billion. Where people have perspective and hope, now the schools close. I know the Prime Minister is concerned about that, too. The same goes for Mark Harbers. My first question is whether the Prime Minister wants to make a strong effort to raise the EUR 3.45 billion which is still missing, not as the Netherlands, but also by the European Union. I think that will increase the moral legitimacy of thinking about migration again. People need a future there as much as they do here. The second question is about how we ensure more control, more direction, comes about how we deal with migration. There is now a cynical Darwinist system, whereby some survive the smuggling and come to a point where they will eventually get access to a place here, while many of the most vulnerable people, even those I have seen in Jordan, do not get the protection they deserve. That is why I support thinking, as happened at the previous summits, about a different European asylum system. But I think it is equally important that we maintain our own values. This is clearly reflected in the cabinet's letter, but I call on the Prime Minister not only to express this, but also to think and cooperate in making this possible, if necessary with a vanguard of countries. The third point concerns an effective return policy. Unfortunately, this is extremely topical, also in the Dutch context. I would say that it is fine that the committee says that there should be more border guards. A child understands that this is necessary for an effective migration policy. But we also know that a more effective return policy is complex. For example, we need to talk to countries in Africa, which requires more initiative. Then about Hungary. I found the enthusiasm and here and there the triumphalism about the vote adopted understandable, but vulnerable. I am referring to the vote adopted to begin an Article 7 procedure against Hungary. I thought it was understandable, because there is a lot of work in it, but it is vulnerable because the reason is extremely sad. The reason is that, rightly, we have a big mouth about states of law in other parts of the world and, quite rightly, we think that Europe should take a step forward in the international legal order where America seems to let go of that role. But that also means that we must maintain our own rules, without regard for the individual. If Erdogan bans newspapers, opposes organisations and violates the rule of law, it is black of the people who speak shamefully about this. That must be the case if a member of our own Union does so. That's what's going on here, and that's why I'm so attached to it. Of course, the Hungarian Government will say that we simply do not agree with its policy. However, if you read the report, you will notice that there is clearly more going on. If you want to protect that rule of law for the future for all of us in this room and in this country, you must also be strict as a member of your own family who violates the rule of law. This applies to the European Commission and the European Union. Finally, the Brexit. My concern is, even when you see the British's bumbling, that there is almost a Versailles scenario threatening. The fact that the Brussels negotiators are getting better stocked up and winning over and over again has caused some kind of humiliation on the part of the British. I think this would be a shame. I would like our Prime Minister to remain as strict against the British and keep the front closed, but also to continue to look at the real concerns that exist, such as reform of labour migration in the European Union. It is necessary in my view, but we will have to force a great deal of force to ensure that nothing changes. I also hope that he will keep an eye on the future relationship, regardless of the fact that I also see that it is incredibly difficult to continue to negotiate properly with a government that is making such a mess of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u104	Last Monday we visited a delegation from the Senate and the House of Representatives to talk about the Brexit. We've spoken to Secretary Davidson and Secretary Walker at Downing Street. In addition to the concerns we understand, the picture remains that there is still insufficient preparation on the English side. In any case, we have lost a year, we are running out of time, and the question is whether this time requirement alone does not mean that the English are still not sufficiently prepared to make the final battle. I'm sure the Prime Minister will answer that as well. That is the impression I have had, and I think colleagues too. I don't know if you'd like to say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u105	Unfortunately, I couldn't be there, but I share that uneasy feeling. They're making a mess of it. It is far too easy to think about the preparations that are needed for this. We've talked about it several times, and we'll talk about it here. I can see that, and I'm very concerned about that, because the clock is ticking. However, it seemed to me to be a good thing to warn about what I suspect this Prime Minister is not so much about not being too triumphant with each other from within the European Union, which has its affairs in order in the negotiations. Because we will have to move forward with each other, with as close a relationship as possible with the United Kingdom, in the interests of trade, security and the future of this continent. We will have to prevent it from being perceived as a kind of humiliation, and that is why I call Versailles, where the British, who in my view have been deceived here and there by those they voted for, feel: you see, it is the European Union that is doing all this. I'd feel much more like keeping a business tone, ignoring the thunderstorm around Downing Street, and keeping an eye on the ball of the future relationship with the British.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u106	We cannot talk here about those conversations that were confidential; of course we do. But it is clear that both sides, both EU and UK, want to avoid a no deal. Against that background, you must also see how negotiations are now under way, if you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u107	Sure, and I support that. I also think that that front should remain closed and that you should not give up your position for fear of no deal. But I am trying to point out that even in a no-deal scenario, doors must be kept open and a deal made afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a debate here on the so-called informal summit in Salzburg. No formal decisions are taken there. It is expected to talk about Brexit, migration and security. As far as the VVD is concerned, the European Union must solve the major cross-border problems, and migration is one of those important problems. It has often been said that the Brexit is a loss-lose situation, a loss-loss situation. It's about reducing the damage. We're less than 200 days away from Brexit. We're running out of time. And Prime Minister May will be able to explain her plan to the Heads of Government next week. As Mr Van Rooijen said, last Monday we visited London. We were very well received as a delegation and very hospitable on Downing Street 10, in parliament and at the Dutch embassy. I had a strong impression there that the chance of a no deal remains considerable. At the moment there is no majority for anything in the House of Commons, the British Parliament. You'll see a rebellion against the Prime Minister if you follow the papers this week. It is also unclear what Labour wants. Do they want a deal or do they want to drop the cabinet? The Irish border is tricky. There's another party conference coming up for Mrs. May. The knives are sharpened. We were able to see how that went wrong last year. You saw the letters fall off the board during her speech. So no deal remains relevant. And how do we prepare for that? Can the Minister say anything about that? And how do we get out of that situation? Can the Minister say something about that? If you ask me, I think you can hardly escape the fact that, if there is no majority for anything, the European Union will have to submit a proposal to the British in a while and must say: this is a proposal, you can accept it and then you may have the deal you do not want in Parliament, but it is orderly, or you have a chaotic Brexit with all the economic and electoral risks that it entails. Maybe that's the way it goes when MEPs in the House of Commons have to vote with the gun on the chest. I'd like a prime minister's valuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u110	It doesn't look like what's happening on the other side of the lake, at the Conservative Party, the Tories. But it also does not look very good what the European Union is doing. We saw Barnier's article this summer. He says: "We want to be good friends with London, the Brexit must go well and the economic damage..." but "the internal market is indivisible." Does Mr Mulder of the VVD recognise that you are heading towards a border on the Irish island, something that actually brings a no deal closer if you stick to that dogma in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u111	First of all, you have to look carefully at why the European Union considers that the internal market is indivisible. As a relatively small country, the Netherlands benefits enormously from a huge European hinterland with the so-called internal market and the free movement of goods, services and capital. We benefit from this as a small country, more than larger countries. So we have a huge interest in maintaining it. We shouldn't give it up. Then we have to look at an Irish border. If you want to solve this issue smartly, you have to do something with a custom, whatever you want to call it. That's my estimate. If you call it a custom union, they hit the ceiling in Britain, so come up with a name that looks like it and sells it. You have to think of it. I do not think the European Union is dogmatic. I believe that a large internal market is in the interests of the Netherlands. We'll take advantage of that. International trade pays everyone a month's salary a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u112	We can have a whole debate on what the internal market means to us, but my question was actually a different one. This indivisibleness of the internal market means that you continue to rely on the freedoms of persons, capital, goods and services. This includes the European Court of Justice, all the rules. That is precisely what the United Kingdom has said it wants to get rid of. If the VVD and the SP were to write a proposal for the United Kingdom, we would be able to agree quickly on a customs union, a customs union and so on, I think. In doing so, we would offer them good economic cooperation in the future. Of course, that wasn't my question. My question was: does the VVD see that, because the European Union is dogmatically sticking to this indivisibleness of the market, there will be a border on the Irish island, something that is not acceptable to the United Kingdom? Does the VVD see that this, including the position of the European Union, is heading for a no deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u113	No. We are mainly heading for a no deal because of the British's attitude. They wanted to get out for a number of reasons, but outside the European Union we cannot have the same benefits as a Member of the European Union. So the British are making the problem here. My estimate is that the resolution of the issue with the Irish border requires a further step from the British, however difficult it may be. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u114	Please continue. I beg your pardon? Very briefly, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u115	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u116	This always happens: "The British want out, it's the British their problem, they have to solve it." We have said that we accept the democratic outcome and that we are going to negotiate with each other as best we can about a new relationship and about the Brexit itself in order to minimise economic damage. The moment we keep saying that it's all London's fault and that it's a mess there, while the European Union's attitude is tough, we're in a no deal. And a no deal is also very detrimental to our economy. I believe that it is all the fault of 'hullie' and that they should come up with a plan which is not so sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u117	It goes both ways. A no deal is very damaging to the Netherlands, so we must try to prevent it. But breaking down the internal market is equally damaging to the Netherlands, given the other countries we are dealing with. That's the situation. I wouldn't just give up one because you insist on making a deal with the British. So we need to see how things are going to turn out over the next few months. Then migration. Colleagues have said something about this. Migration will remain a major problem in the coming decades when you look at population growth and poverty in Africa. Sad scenes on the Mediterranean. This is typically a cross-border issue on which the European Union must deliver. We saw it again this summer: ports were closed and Italy's Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Salvini, and Prime Minister Orbán, are intensifying the discussion by accusing the President of France of being pro-migration. None of that helps. What does the Prime Minister expect from the forthcoming summit against this background? What is the follow-up to the previous summit when we talked about deals with Africa? Mr Voordewind asked the same question. What exactly are we gonna do? Finally, safety. I really did not want to bring up Mr Juncker's speech. Last year he scared the hell out of everyone with his personal speech. If the Prime Minister is going to make a personal story here in parliament, he will be thrown out immediately. All this can be done in the European Parliament. You'll even get a round of applause there. That's also very special, that you're going to applaud someone who gives his personal opinion. Well, good. It is very special, that European Parliament. So I didn't want to say too many words about it. We'll see what he actually comes up with when he comes up with proposals. Then we can judge it. That's what I thought, until I saw the schedule for next week. I see a number of proposals on that, for example those 1,000 additional border guards. If that is necessary, my question is to the Prime Minister. In principle, countries have to guard their own borders. The same goes for the D.A.'s office, which I believe is being discussed. Is it now necessary for the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which I do not think is even there yet, to extend its remit already? Can't you just land that for yourself? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u118	Let me ask you a very brief question about this. The VVD was first opposed to the participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and then for it. Now we are talking about extending the task package. Do I understand correctly that Mr Mulder says that the VVD is in principle opposed to extending the tasks of the European Public Prosecutor's Office with the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u119	The fight against terrorism is an important issue. So I would not like to use the word 'principal'. But most of all, I'm wondering at what level to organize this. What's wrong with the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office? What is the added value of this? The European Public Prosecutor's Office hasn't even started yet. It doesn't even have a track record. So I think it's all over again. This is exactly what is threatening to happen: Mr Juncker is scaring the shit out of everyone again. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u120	That's not exactly an answer to my question. The cabinet also writes in the annotated agenda: we do not think the discussion on extending the task package is timely. But that is a different position than saying: no, we do not want the European Public Prosecutor's Office to expand with tasks such as terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u121	I see no need for that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u122	Not now, but in the future, could it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u123	You shouldn't say not now, so in the future you will. That's not what I'm saying. I see no need to do so, so my group is against it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u124	Are you opposed in principle to it expanding, so now and in the future? Or are you against it today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u125	At least I'm against it today. I'm saying that very clearly. That D.A.'s office isn't even working yet. It doesn't have a track record. I haven't seen any elaborate proposals. I have only seen a suggestion from Mr Juncker. It's all nice, but I'd like to see if that's gonna be a proposal at all, and then take a look at it. You don't taste any enthusiasm from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u126	Yeah, but just because I don't see any enthusiasm right now doesn't mean that it won't be accepted tomorrow. So I would just like to clarify: are you for or against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u127	No, no, no. I'm very clear. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mrs Leijten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u129	I wanted a clear answer, and Mrs Maeijer has already done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u130	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Finally, I will go to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another important informal summit, on migration, Brexit, MFF, trade relations and the forthcoming European elections. It will be an interesting European political year. But you know it: it is an informal summit. That means no agenda, no minutes and no transparency. And that's kind of tricky for parliamentarians. There is now a confidential document on greater transparency. I found that amusing; but well, that was leaked through Statewatch. Together with the other rapporteurs, Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Rooijen, I asked for a cabinet response. We don't do that for nothing. Because pieces like that about the ESM are completely secret. Even in the year papers on a fund that spends 700 billion, we have to pull it to see it at all. We're not gonna see the audit report. And there's 30 billion Dutch money in it. The moment you save banks, of course, it's a little confidential. But can we expect an appreciation from the government of these European proposals? Then there is the reform in the euro. Negotiations on the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme are now under way. But in this Chamber, we agreed to take a zero measurement first and see what the risks are, and then to draw up a plan for risk reduction. When are we finally gonna get those pieces? As far as the CDA is concerned, the agreement in the coalition agreement on this issue is tough. Europe seems to be changing that order now. That's dangerous for a transfer union. Will the Prime Minister at all times oppose any final decision on the introduction of EDIS, the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme, before risk reduction has been achieved? I'd like a clear commitment. The CDA Group would also like to receive a scenario analysis on a possible sovereign debt crisis, starting, for example, in a country like Italy. What are the risks of such a scenario and such a crisis for the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. On the brexit issue, I agree with a number of previous colleagues. I have one specific question. In February, together with Mr Mulder and Mr Asscher, who are also rapporteurs on the Brexit, we asked for a timely vote against the 1,000 customs officers. Is it true that, like the FD report, only 300 of these people are ready to be customs officials by the end of March? And are the Netherlands and the Dutch Customs able to cope with a hard Brexit, should it occur at the end of March? That is an essential question and I would like an answer to that. If that is not possible now, please write before 10 October. That is extremely important. Then it's about migration. All colleagues have spoken about the future. Can I just ask what exactly happened to the agreements from the June migration summit? What about the controlled reception centres, landing platforms, the reinforcement of Frontex and the promised support to Italy? We're always so good at making new appointments, but can I just get an update? Did any of that even end up there? If it didn't work out, why would we want to make new arrangements? Mr. Chairman. With regard to Turkey, I would like to say that now that the end of the Syrian civil war is in sight with a huge battle at Idlib, a new humanitarian disaster is in danger of happening with very many refugees and also with direct interference from Turkey. What are we doing to prevent a humanitarian disaster there and the corresponding flow of refugees? And what about the extra funds that will be transferred for the migration deal? Erdogan's gonna use that as change again? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I support Mr Verhoeven's question. I have another 30 Members' debate on the appointment of Mr Selmayr. The European Ombudswoman has found that there is maladministration. That is the most serious qualification that it has and can give. That qualification gives them less than one in ten cases. So it's not just something she says. Is that just gonna be without consequences? I'd like an explanation from the Prime Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u132	With a degree of caution, I am going to deal with my esteemed colleague, Mr Omtzigt, because I think he is a little hypocritical when it comes to Mr Selmayr. That is what the European Parliament is about. A motion has been tabled to reopen the procedure for the appointment of the sg and to ask the Commission to await that procedure. That was voted on. Perhaps Mr Omtzigt can tell me which party voted against it. The name begins with a "C" and ends with "DA."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u133	Well, if that's the question, you've already given the answer. I simply note that there is a new report by the Ombudswoman and that research has been carried out and that I would like to see a serious follow-up of such an investigation of a European institution. This succession can also be given by the Heads of Government. I am therefore very interested in whether they are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u134	I note that Mr Omtzigt has asked here a few times for a debate with the Prime Minister on Mr Selmayr. I remember Mrs De Lange standing here, who was admitted here when we talked about the state of the Union. That was also true of Mr Selmayr, but I also note that the CDA votes wrong when it comes to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u135	They are responsible for their own votes. I note that we are monitoring the European Commission and we are also going to appoint the members of the European Commission again. I am just looking at the role of the Dutch Commissioner, who is sitting there. There is therefore a role for the Dutch Parliament when such a serious qualification is given. I therefore ask the Dutch Government what consequences it draws from this qualification. I still have that 30-member debate on Selmayr. Strangely enough, I didn't even get majority support for that in this Parliament. I am happy to enter into that debate at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u136	Mr Omtzigt should not be with the Prime Minister. He must be with his own CDA group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u137	We really need to be here with the Prime Minister. It is the Heads of Government who, for example, appoint the new Commission. And yes, the European Parliament controls. But also yes, it is the governments that are proposing a Commissioner. So we too have something to say about this. I am not saying that the European Parliament has nothing to say about it. Mr Mulder is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u138	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u139	Well, Mr. Chairman, I was expecting some more questions about Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u140	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u141	But if no one brings that up...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u142	You're way past your speaking time. But that's okay. Did you say you had any questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u143	No. I was just surprised at... Well, no, I'm not gonna argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u144	That's very sensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u145	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.10 p.m. First, we're going to swear Mr. Aartsen of the VVD. Then we have the work to be done and then we will continue with this debate.
