ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u1	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u2	Madam President. There are still a few questions and then a lot of motions. One question that was left was the question about 2,000 vulnerable migrants. It has become clear from the media today that Greece would have decided to transfer 2,000 people from Lesbos to the mainland. Furthermore, it is really unclear to us what exactly is going on here. It's really a Greek decision. The Secretary of State reported to the Chamber about a year ago that, looking back on the previous period, about 50% of the people on the Greek islands had been identified as vulnerable and that they had then also been partly or entirely transferred to the mainland, but that was not a commitment and not an expectation for the future either. It really is an internal Greek matter. So the whole issue of the islands to other parts of Greece is outside Europe. With regard to the situation on the islands, I replied in the first place that this cabinet, which applies to many people in Europe, is prepared to help. A second question left was Alexander Pechtold's on Groningen. Here's what I'm gonna do. In July, the Mining Council issued an opinion on strengthening housing in Groningen. That was in the light of the rapidly falling gas extraction. The Mining Council advises to move on to a new approach as soon as possible. The most risky houses should be considered first, covering approximately 1,500 buildings, and there should be a standard approach to strengthening, the so-called "catalogue'. The Mining Council also distinguishes a group of buildings which cannot be excluded from the need for reinforcement and where inspection against the latest standard must take place. According to the current insights, this is about 7,000 buildings. At the request of the region and the Empire, the new approach was developed by the National Coordinator during the summer. Yesterday, the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Climate and Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations discussed this with the representation of the region. At the request of the region, a number of issues will be further developed and monitored in the coming weeks. After that, the residents will be informed by letter. Of course, the Lower House will be informed of the new approach by the Minister for Economic Affairs. Meanwhile, the already ongoing reinforcements continue. Some operational barriers will be removed. That was, I understood, a good consultation yesterday in the region. Mr President, that brings me to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr Pechtold has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u4	That sounds like the right direction, but I just want the cabinet not tonight, but it is for the budget to be dealt with, and I think that is a little too late to be clear about what that road map is. Because I think those 1,500 homes have been waiting for a long time. I just want to know when those cohorts... I just want to get to Groningen a little more clarity. If there's agreement with the drivers, fine. But I want to know when that letter is sent and when people know what they're up to. Not tonight, but somewhere for the next two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u5	As I said, the Lower House will soon be informed by the Minister about the new approach. Let me then agree that in that letter we also walk through the different cohorts, the old situation and the new situation, because it is about numbers that are sometimes almost the same, so that we get that straight. Which brings me to the motions, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 7 of the PVV... Oh, Mr. Baudet has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u7	Madam President, I have a question for the Prime Minister. At what point has he changed his mind in response to the speeches and speeches made by the Members of Parliament today and the day before yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u8	On a number of points, and these have also been laid down in a number of opposition and coalition motions, so I shall come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u9	So all the points on which you have begun to think differently can be found in a motion. There is nothing more that has changed your mind than what we can find in the motions. Is that a good summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u10	No. I have, of course, made a number of commitments in the debate to the Chamber in the event of all kinds of interruptions. All these commitments, which of course Mr Baudet has not heard, because he was busy setting up his party, stand up. Of course, nothing has changed. What is left, apart from that, are the insights that have shifted and which have been laid down in the various motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u12	We're very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr President, the motion on item No. 7, by Mr Wilders, I advise you because she is not responsible for the budget. The motion in part No. 8 by Mr Dijkhof cum suis, let me judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 9, on the dividend tax, I'm not sure. I do that for reasons of substance. I also discussed this with Mr Van der Staaij in the first term. Yes, you can, of course, have alternatives to abolishing the dividend tax. But the goals we want to achieve, specifically for this type of company with a Dutch-English branch, and the opportunities to get companies from England to the Netherlands in the context of the Brexit, can only be achieved in this way. There is therefore no alternative to this. So that problem would persist, with all the risks it entails, and then you could spend that 2 billion in a different way. That is why I believe that this has been changed in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u14	The Prime Minister thus confirms that the dividend tax measure concerns only the two companies Unilever and Shell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u15	No. I have said: it concerns a number of companies, I do not mention names that have an English-Dutch branch. There's more than one. In addition, I have said, there are because of the Brexit companies in England that weigh what they will do. They therefore also have to do with the situation of an uneven playing field between the UK and the Netherlands with regard to the dividend tax. And we know it can play a role there. The same will apply to companies wishing to establish themselves here. I explained that to you this morning. For example, companies in the new economy, in ICT, are innovative companies that can also go to England. They will take this into account in the decisions if, for example, they also consider an establishment in the United Kingdom. For all these reasons, this is a unique problem that you cannot solve by spending that 2 billion differently. So you can spend that money differently, of course. As I said, you can further reduce corporate tax, invest more in innovation: there are all kinds of other opportunities that are beneficial to the business environment. But the unique big problem we have specifically between the UK and the Netherlands can only be solved in this way. This affects a number of existing companies, which affects investment decisions of companies that may want to come to the Netherlands. For that reason I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 9. The motion in part No. 10, about reversing the energy load, I don't recommend. I explained this in the debate. This is part of a broader package of measures. May I refer to that part of the discussion? The motion in part No. 11, on youth care, is judged by the Cabinet Chamber. The motion in part No. 12, by Mr Klaver, on settlements in the financial sector: judgment of the Court. The motion in part No. 13, by Mr Buma, Mr Pechtold, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Segers: judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 14, the motion for a resolution on social employment: judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 15, by Mr Buma and Mr Pechtold: judgment of the Chamber. This is, of course, also an important part of the coalition agreement. The motion in part No. Sixteen, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 14, which deals with the same subject, goes less far. The motion in part No. 16 goes too far for us now, so I'm gonna give it away. The motion in part No. 17, on the NPO: Judgment Chamber. There is a bit of a complicated language to be found, and that is what the motion is about. 18, in which D66 requests that important documents be published in a version that is understandable. However, I shall, nevertheless, also deal with the motion on item No. 18 advise: judge Chamber, assuming that this does not necessarily concern all laws and pieces of government, but those pieces that are also directly connected to the outside world. And Mr. Pechtold and I will be told what exactly "2F" is. But the motion in part No. 18 gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 19: dissuade. I refer to the debate. Mr Asscher and I discussed this at length. The motion in part No. 20, by Mr Asscher: judgment of the Court of Justice. It's about the affordable rentals and shrinking areas. He filed that motion with Mr Buma and Mr Segers. At the motion in part No. 21 I say: there is no question of a cut in the rent payment. I already told you. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 22 is about the safety net. I have already said that there are discussions with social partners about pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness, about the WIA et cetera, etc. Those conversations run constructively in themselves, but it really takes time. I advise against this motion. Now let's give that trial a chance. The motion in part No. As far as I am concerned, Mr Asscher has 23 judges in Chambers. Motion in part No. 24, about the right to challenge. In the third block, it says "the government requests that the right-to-challenge arrangements (...) be implemented in the Chamber before the end of this year." I must point out that there will be no law. Against this background, however, and with that explanation, this motion is, as far as we are concerned, Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 25, over 25 million for poverty. The motion in part No. 26, about LNV, I advise. We have, of course, just talked about it in the debate. The motion in part No. 27 is a motion on VAT on meat and dairy products. I'd advise against it. The motion in part No. 28 over 60 million. We have also discussed this in detail, Mrs Thieme and I. We have also had help from Mrs Schouten. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 29, about the IRS. In the coalition agreement 500 million euros have occasionally been made available to the Tax Administration. This will implement the Manage ment Programme. Money isn't the problem right now. It is really important now that we make the renewal agenda a success. Against that background, I advise against the motion in part No. 29. The motion in part No. 30. A lot has been said about that. It is an integral package, which includes the Vpb, the corporation tax, the dividend tax but also the withholding tax and thus making it less attractive or as much as possible prevent letterboxes, e.g.. I don't recommend that motion. The motion in part No. I would advise 31 of Mr Krol, because this is part of the ongoing discussions on the reform of the pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u16	The previous motion... I lost count because I have a different numbering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u17	If you tell me what it's about, I'll find the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u18	The motion on splitting up...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yes, a separate bill for the dividend tax. That's the motion in part No. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u20	Yes. It seems interesting to me to discuss this with the Minister. For that reason, I would like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u21	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (35000, No. 30). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u22	Then I come to the motion in part No. 32. The purchasing power of pensioners looks favourable in the CPB estimate. 97% are improving. Against that background: dissuade. A framework for municipalities is in fact already there, that's the law. We think we should leave room for the municipalities in there, so we advise against the motion in part no. 33. The motion in part No. 34: the Medal of Honor for the Police. I thought, in conjunction with the next motion on the counter-budget, that the Medal of Honor was for Mr Krol, but he is for the police. For that reason, judge Chamber. I'm not sure what else it would have been. The motion in part No. 35: Transforming the counter-budget into policy in its entirety. I advise against it, for understandable reasons. The motion in part No. 36 of the SGP on the insurance tax for broad weather insurance: Court of Justice, where the motion asks very precisely to do so through an exemption from the insurance tax, I ask for room in the technical room, because it also has to do with the execution. We want to do what the motion asks, but leave us some room for technology, I ask, because we are still having a bit of trouble with that. But judge Chamber, with that explanation. The motion in part No. 37. We really want to involve the investigation that Mark Harbers, the Secretary of State for Migration, is going to do now, the committee he is going to set up. Against that background, I advise against the motion in part No. 37. The motion in part No. 38 is a request to the Chamber itself. I'm not giving advice on that. The motion in part No. 39 over Australia. This has a different international framework, it is not bound by the ECHR and against that background: it is not recommended. The motion in part No. 40 on dividend tax: dissuade. The motion in part No. 41: dissuade. The motion in part No. 42. We do not allow SMEs andzzp'ers to bear the costs of paying the dividend tax, so it is factually incorrect. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 43. I think it is very sweet that Mr Baudet, although we hardly ever speak here, is so fond of me that he cannot do without me, but it is still a bit of a bizarre motion, so I advise against it. Finally, Mr President. We're...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u23	Madam President. The Prime Minister just promised me that in his assessment of the motions there would be all sorts of changes in his views. I've been writing along for a while. There is only one motion he wants to take over: that is the motion tabled by his own group chairman in the Lower House, Mr Dijkhoff, with a completely meaningless announcement to identify a number of scenarios for population development. All other motions are either dissuade or judgment room left! In other words, what he just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u24	What he just said, he thinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u25	He doesn't get it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u26	...would have changed, is bullshit. What remains, Mr Rutte, is what you said about the commitments you would have made in the debate. We are going to ask Parliamentary questions with the question of what commitments they are, where you have changed your mind and on what grounds. We are very curious about the answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u27	Madam President, perhaps we could turn off the cameras for a moment, because this is a painful moment, but I still want to do it. So we're gonna keep it between the two of us for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u28	I ask you to leave the cameras on!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u29	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u30	Well, I think Mr Baudet appreciates the fact that the next part of my reply is not being broadcast. Let's just keep it all the way between the two of us. If you were here more often, you'd know. If the government says in a "judge chamber" motion, the government actually agrees with the content of the motion. Then we will continue to look at the votes, but if that motion is adopted, it is actually part of our policy as far as we are concerned. Then we agree. You know what I mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u31	So let's not talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u32	Good. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u33	Just don't talk about it anymore. Painful moment. I'm gonna move on, because I had a final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u34	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u35	I do not think this is a painful time for Forum for Democracy or for me. I do find it a painful and telling moment for the Prime Minister, firstly because of the misplaced dedain with which he speaks...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u36	...about the worn-in standards he's seeing here, apparently. Secondly, it is a much more fundamental issue. If the Prime Minister says that we are already in agreement, then there is no change of opinion. If he says that it is already government policy, then there is no change of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u37	No, no, don't make it worse for you! It's not right!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u38	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u39	Finally. If it were true that the Prime Minister would have changed his mind on those points on which those motions would be concerned, then we would very much like to hear that again. So we will also be asking Parliament questions about that. I would like to see the point where the Prime Minister has changed his mind, on the basis of what arguments and then what his position was. We would very much like to await the written answers to these questions. From the responses we have received from the previous debate, we know that a lot of people in the Netherlands are waiting for the same answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u40	No, look, Mr. Baudet. I do not want to fight you in the field of arrogance, of course not. But for a while. You're digging the hole deeper. If you had experienced a piece of the debate, you would have seen that I had made movements to the Chamber on parts of my response. If the government says "judge chamber," then the government could live with an outcome where such a motion is passed. Then we say: okay, we can live with that; we can take that into account in our policies. I have just done so on a number of points, both in the case of opposition motions and in the case of motions supported mainly by the coalition. There are also motions tabled jointly by opposition and coalition. But then there will be a vote. Then we're all gonna vote here. It will then be decided whether a motion will be adopted. Then it may also be a real part of the policy. But that's how it works. I have not repeated all the arguments for this because they have been discussed all day in the debate. But you must have missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u42	Yeah, sorry, just a point of order. It's really bullshit. It is said here a few times that I would not have been there and that I would not have followed the debate, but that is absolutely wrong. That is the first point; that is also a personal fact. This is bullshit. It signs the prime minister's argumentative poverty. Second. We will follow it, we will see it, and we will take stock shortly after the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u43	Well, we'll wait and see. Madam President. We have come to the conclusion of the General Reviews on the National Budget for 2019. They were of course special because there was a situation in which there was a day between the first term of the Chamber and the sitting today on Friday. That was because there was an informal summit in Salzburg. As you know, the cabinet cannot be replaced there, so I had to go there to defend the Dutch interest. I am very grateful that we were able to organise it in this way. That was special, because it is unusual for the Chamber to meet on Friday. I would like to thank you for that, but also the members of the Chamber. More than 100 years ago, during the Cort van der Linden cabinet, the Zuiderzee Act of engineer Cornelis Lely, Minister of Water State, entered into force in that cabinet. The Zuiderzeewet made the Afsluitdijk, the IJsselmeer and the new polders possible. The Afsluitdijk was, and still is, an icon of world size, which can even be seen from space. That wonderful fact, that beautiful dike, shows that the Netherlands is always working on its future. Like a century ago, we once again face important long-term changes in our social and physical environment. I am not going to mention them all, but I am going to highlight one of them, which we have also discussed in detail today: tackling climate change. It is changes that call for consultation, broad agreements with society, and support for companies and hard-working people and pensioners in the country, to ensure that these are not only effective solutions, but also sustainable solutions. Mr. Chairman. Essential for these decisions and changes are the decision-making and legislation in this house, in the consultation between government and State-General. The balancing of interests and inspiration through our principles are taking place here. A parliamentary democracy that allows for everyone's input and which has shown that it is possible to take decisions on issues that are important for our common future and for future generations, is worth defending with each other. In fact, we did so last Wednesday and today when we implied this debate. That's a joint project. It's a tar property we have. We need to maintain that with each other. I think we've done the same in the last few days. I would like to thank you, and therefore all of you, for your contribution and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u45	I shall now suspend the sitting for half an hour, until 10.30 p.m., and then we shall vote.
