ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone. All fresh and fruity after yesterday, though. I also welcome the people in the public gallery. The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 17 and 18 October 2018. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks. I say that speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Good morning, Mr President. It's good to see all my colleagues. I can tell the Prime Minister that the word 'dividend tax' will only be dealt with indirectly in my contribution. If this isn't a cliff hanger, I don't remember. The chairman is closing her ears now, but I don't take that personally. Maybe the Brexit. I can easily imagine that today we are not getting very much better at this, but a few comments. Of course, it is not so strange that the tension increases when approaching the deadline. In such a complex dossier, an agreement is often feasible only at maximum time pressure. But then, of course, there must be talk. That is why my question to the Prime Minister: is it true that after the weekend the talks were closed pending the summit that starts today? Then about the signals we're getting. On the one hand, Tusk, the President of the European Council, says that a hard Brexit is more likely than ever. I understand that it is in the letter with which the Heads of Government were invited. On the other hand, when Chancellor Merkel was here last week and together with the Prime Minister who took a nice stroll along the Hofvijver, they both seemed to be a bit optimistic, in the vein of: well, if it's all a bit lucky then maybe next week will work out. So the question is: what exactly happened between that hike along the Hofvijver and today, where it seems as if the impasse is complete again? It's good to hear more about that. Then migration. Migration is once again on the agenda of the European summit, and once again there is no progress on the main points, or headaches actually. The jargon changes, I noticed. "Designation platforms" have now become "designation arrangements." That sounds a lot less real. That is much more about agreements, you would say, than about concrete infrastructure. What's behind that, I'm asking the Prime Minister. For example, should this make it easier for North African countries to agree? Is it true that Morocco, Tunisia and Egypt have actually said no? If so, who is left? With the dividend tax he is there, Mr President, the Prime Minister has shown that he sometimes holds on to miserable ideas for far too long, but that he can make a turn of events last minute. That's always a possibility. Is this idea of the set-aside arrangements not worth reconsidering? Do we actually not waste too much time trying to work for arrangements, ideas and concepts that are not actually working and for which there is no support? What also struck me is this. In the annotated agenda, the cabinet is now explicitly talking about evacuation on both sides of the Mediterranean. That is an important step in my view. The idea was to send everyone back, so that the crossing would be maximally discouraged. Did the cabinet let go of that idea? I'd be happy to, but I'd like to confirm it. I've got to hurry up, I see. The revision of the common asylum policy is not progressing and is stuck. The cabinet wants a reduction in secondary flows. In my view, this means that those arriving in southern Europe must also apply for asylum. Isn't that exactly the old system, which is no longer sustainable? And how exactly does this relate to the obligation of relocation, which was precisely embraced by the cabinet, which would not be optional? Mr President, I have two brief points to make. The first concerns the Article 7 procedure. We talked about it quite extensively last time. Then the Sargentini report had just appeared. I understand with approval that the Foreign Ministers have now decided to bring the matter into effect and that Hungary must come forward with a written statement. That seems to me to be a good thing, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it will also be discussed with the Heads of Government. Finally, I would like to say something about Saudi Arabia. I really cannot avoid that, because there is no doubt that there is also talk about foreign policy. The cold-blooded murder of Turkish soil on Jamal Khashoggi, the columnist of the Washington Post and criticist of the Saudi strong man, is yet another proof of the cruel character of the Saudi regime. In any case, it seems to lead to the President speaking openly about sanctions in the United States. Although he does not talk about weapons sanctions, he does talk about sanctions. It also leads to critical questions being raised in Congress about the delivery of weapons, which the Saudi regime is driving, among other things, the people of Yemen to starve death. Is it not high time that the countries of the Union also started calling on each other to supply arms to Saudi Arabia and agreed to stop them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	When the British decided that they no longer had a future within the European Union, the SP kept saying that divorce should not become a punishment exercise for the United Kingdom. We shouldn't be heading for a fight divorce. That is not good for the future relationship, and certainly not for the economy. Today you read that our companies are not prepared because the political leaders in Europe are not seeking a solution, but are facing each other and are permanently losing each other. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to take the lead. I really wonder what happened in Salzburg in September. The Prime Minister was going to take a serious look at May's proposal. She was rude in there. It's like a ball tent. Macron, Juncker, Tusk, all in a row, they're throwing the proposal in the trash. This isn't gonna get us to a good Brexit, is it? How is this possible, I say to the Prime Minister? Those men! Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	Merkel!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	There are also things on the agenda that get less media coverage, but which are just as amazing. We have concerns about the rule of law in Hungary, Poland. At the same time, there is now a proposal on the agenda that we must collect and share digital evidence, the so-called E-Evidence Regulation. They always make it into secret language, but what does this mean? This means that a Member State can say to, for example, KPN: I want the data of Mr Rutte and you have to deliver it. And the Netherlands doesn't know anything about it. That's crazy! And this regulation hasn't even been discussed, it hasn't even been adopted, or there's another proposal. Because that's how it goes with the European train, which always thunders. That new proposal states that a Member State without the intervention of the country in which you live can tap Mr. Rutte. Now there is even a compromise proposal. I am asking the Prime Minister: we are not going to agree to this E-evidence regulation and we are not going to agree to a compromise proposal. Deal? The coming weeks are also exciting when it comes to the future of the euro. Because next Thursday we will be discussing with Draghi and with Centeno what is the state of play in making the European Stability Mechanism permanent, the temporary support fund that can lend almost unlimited money to Member States. Of course, that money is money from all of us. That temporary ESM, the loan factory, must become permanent. And it needs to be opened up to banks. Is this true? And is this desirable? First, we had to nationalize the banks, save them, then they had to be played through the ECB, with quantitative easing, with the money press, now we have a banking union with which we have to save them, and eventually they also get the back of such a European stabilisation mechanism. What are we doing? We really see all of this as a patchwork for a currency that is ultimately unsustainable. We would like there to be room for discussion and consideration of alternatives to the euro. But if this European stabilisation mechanism is to be made permanent, then we must now also democratize and control it. Budget law for Member States needs to be strengthened. It must meet the reporting requirements, report which risky loans are outstanding, and the staff and the institute must no longer be inviolable. Is the Prime Minister prepared to bring this in? We also have many questions about migration. Mr Van Ojik had good questions about it. What about Morocco and Tunisia? Are they on the list for deals? Egypt is even mentioned. What about human rights? We have adopted motions here in this Chamber for the June summit in which the Chamber has laid down clear basic conditions. We have also said that we do not want to be faced with a fulfilled fact; we always want to talk here about a deal before it is there. I'm asking the Prime Minister, isn't that still the deal? Then there is the sad issue with the Saudi journalist who disappeared at the consulate in Istanbul, Mr Jamal Khashoggi. We don't know exactly what happened, but we do know it's not fresh. Now, in a statement by the Foreign Ministers, the EU has asked Saudi Arabia for clarification. They've expressed their concerns about what happened. Then there can be only one conclusion, I say to the Prime Minister, namely that our Finance Minister will not be travelling to Saudi Arabia next week for the conference he would attend there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr President. On 23 June 2016, a majority of the British population chose to leave the European Union. They chose freedom, sovereignty. Something that until then was mainly a paper possibility became a reality. In March 2017, the United Kingdom invoked Article 50, the exit article from the Convention. With this the clock started to tick towards 29 March 2019, the day of departure. Hard negotiations, clashes and sometimes rapprochement followed. But the feeling that in the meantime also accounts were settled and an example was set, never disappeared with me. Certainly not because of the tweets that threw some extra oil on the fire, such as the well-known cake without cherries from Tusk or Juncker who apparently felt called to imitate the well-known dance moves of May. In my view, they should both leave that to others. And here we are: more than two years after the referendum and another five months to go to Brexit Day, deal or no deal. Previously known for a game of the same name on TV, it is now the key question that lies on the table in Brussels. For a moment it seemed as if there would be an agreement on Sunday night, but that soon turned out to be a false alarm. In the meantime, the optimistic mood that prevailed for the weekend is disappearing like snow before the sun, and the summit of tonight and tomorrow seems to turn into yet another dinner and talk session. Or, and it could, is it all part of the negotiating tactic? It keeps guessing, but whatever it is, sincere chaos, the final pieces or tactics, make it work. Make sure that there is as good an agreement as possible for the Netherlands. That is my appeal to the Prime Minister. Make sure that the Dutch interest does not snow under EU interests, under old or under whatever. A year and a half ago, the Heads of Government gave the mandate to negotiate to the European Commission, to the French Europhile Barnier. Not the first choice of the PVV, but that's how the flag hangs today. In the annotated agenda, the cabinet once again expresses its support for the negotiator. Can my group assume, as I ask the Prime Minister, that at the moment when there is even the slightest doubt about the defence of the Dutch interest by this dear gentleman, the bell is ringing before it is too late and before we get empty-handed? One and a half paragraphs of the text have been devoted to Brexit by the cabinet in the annotated agenda. Only one and a half paragraphs with mainly open doors and repetitions. The Dutch commitment has been pasted from one letter to another for almost two years, it seems. I understand: confidentiality in the context of negotiations and so on, but it is a bit frustrating. Finally, on the issue of Brexit, a few more questions to the Prime Minister. How is the Prime Minister going to ensure that the Dutch interest is defended as effectively as possible? How much time is left, taking into account ratification and so on, in order to be able to conclude an agreement? What are the expectations of tonight's summit? Will we talk about a draft agreement or a draft political declaration? Does the Prime Minister share President Tusk's view that a no-deal scenario is more likely than ever before? Finally, what is the latest state of play regarding the preparation of the Netherlands for any outcome? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Almost four months have passed since the European Summit in June. The summit which preceded half a cabinet crisis in Germany and which would bring the solution to the migration dossier. Among other things, European leaders made agreements on regional shipping centres, controlled centres in the EU and the revision of Frontex's mandate. In the debate on the summit in September, Prime Minister Rutte said that hardly any progress had been made. I don't think that answer is different now. However, according to answers from Secretary of State Harbers, the Netherlands has expressed and provided assistance with regard to the establishment of controlled centres in the European Union. What exactly has the Prime Minister offered these centres to the EU Member States? Can the Prime Minister here today rule out the possibility that the Netherlands itself will host such a centre? Mr. Chairman. The migration debate shows once again that we should not depend on Brussels, but on its own borders, so that we can decide who comes in and when to take action. The only good migration deal for the Netherlands is to exclude from the European Union and our borders. Mr. Chairman. Finally. In the meantime, they did not sit still at the United Nations and Mr Harbers signed on behalf of the Netherlands in May this year the Marrakesh Declaration, which promotes migration from Africa to Europe. In December of this year, the UN Migration Pact will be ready for signature. I would like to hear from Prime Minister Rutte that we, like Hungary, and possibly also Poland and Austria, will not sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	Good morning, Mr. Prime Minister, after last night. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to Brexit, optimism and pessimism alternate at an ever higher rate. According to the latest reports, EU negotiator Barnier wants a few weeks to reach a final agreement. Furthermore, Prime Minister May will be putting forward a new proposal this evening in which the United Kingdom will remain within the customs union for a while. President Donald Tusk of the European Council states in his invitation to the meeting that a hard Brexit seems closer than ever. But even if an agreement were to be reached very soon in Brussels, what would eventually happen in London is still waiting. In short, there is no room for improvement, but of course the Prime Minister knows what is going on. That is what we really want to hear from him, given his confidentiality. But we do want to know something more. On the basis of the current state of affairs, does he consider the possibility of a decision-making additional European Council in November? If not, what's the scenario? What exactly is the hour when you will be clear that a hard Brexit may not escape? 50PLUS considers it important to clarify this for the Dutch citizens in the UK and for all Dutch companies and organisations that are going to suffer the consequences of a hard Brexit. Are the preparations for a no-deal risk sufficient? Mr. Chairman. Migration. I can be very brief about migration policy. There is a complete lack of progress on a number of key elements of migration policy. Where are the biggest bottlenecks to reach fast and workable agreements, I ask the Prime Minister. Has he proposed to get out of the impasse? 50PLUS strongly supports the call for broad partnerships with African countries to work at source to counter growing migratory flows. 50PLUS has already advocated a marshall plan for Africa. How does the Prime Minister estimate the speed of that process? Is it getting off the ground, or does it turn out to be as unlikely as realising the plans for landing and reception sites? Then there is the future of European Monetary Union. Now that the European Central Bank is finally cutting back its buy-back programme, we can already see the first hair cracks coming out. The strong links do not shrink, because Dutch and German government bonds are safe-haven assets. But the weaker links are already seeing their interest rates go up very fast. I do not need to explain to anyone that the euro chain is only as strong as the weakest link. All attempts to talk in peace in the meantime about further integration and risk sharing are now taking place against that background. The roadmaps and plans before us do not provide a solution now that playtime in the financial markets is over. First, there must be a risk reduction according to 50PLUS and then, not at the same time, we can talk about risk sharing. What is the point of new far-reaching agreements on the deposit guarantee scheme, on a fiscal capacity for the euro area, on a European Minister of Finance, on a prudential treatment of government bonds or on guaranteeing banking sectors in other Member States if stability is threatened by non-compliance? As far as these government bonds are concerned, does the Prime Minister remember my unanimously adopted motion in this Chamber six months ago? I hope from the bottom of my heart that this will be done quickly and ambitiously in the interests of all Europeans. But now that the ECB is withdrawing, the window of opportunity seems to close rather than open. I specifically ask the Prime Minister about the market consequences of prudential treatment of government bonds if we start tomorrow. So far they're on autopilot: always worth 100%, even in Greece and Italy. What happens to the value of Italian government bonds when we come to such prudential treatment? Is it true that this means that the value of some bonds will fall and that financial institutions will have to hold more reserves for their portfolio? Does the Minister agree with me that the conditions for regulating something so huge will not be as good for the time being as they have been for the past two or three years? In other words, the prudent treatment of sovereign bonds, which is so eagerly desired and necessary, may no longer be regulated under the present circumstances, unless we push Italy itself into the abyss. I would like a response from the Prime Minister on this particular point. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands must be careful. Some EU Member States want a free ride to a federal budget that helps them out once every ten years, as we used to do with devaluations. That's gonna have to be stopped. Finally, Mr President. 50PLUS believes that the whole discussion on Eurodeposit guarantee should be completely frozen for the time being now that we know that Italy is failing the budget. Italy will become the Achilles heel of the euro and we should not say that this is a matter for Italy or the Commission. The Commission does not supervise this. We must close the door in good time, otherwise we are screwed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. When I just sent my Scottish brother-in-law an app that I was going to do this debate about the Brexit, he said: perhaps is better not. But, yeah, that must be a run, so I didn't answer him anymore. Maybe I'll do that later. But why not? Mr. Chairman. The Brexit can shake the peace. This alarming and telling headline was above an article in the NRC in April this year about tensions between Northern Ireland's populations in relation to the status of Northern Ireland after the Brexit. In the meantime we are six months further and that tension still exists. Since the informal Council on 19 and 20 September, only limited progress has been made in the negotiations on, inter alia, the Irish/Northern Irish border. Time is running out right now. Our Prime Minister and his colleagues have the clean task and expensive duty to do everything possible to reach agreement. Therefore, the SGP is the first to recall that a fighting divorce and a no-deal scenario are detrimental to all parties, especially for us as a trading nation. We have to get along with the British. European leaders therefore do well not to be condescending or humiliating to the British, but friendly and appropriate. Mr. Chairman. One of the biggest challenges is the Irish border issue. Several possible solutions are going around. How does the Prime Minister assess the scenario that the United Kingdom will remain in the customs union for the time being, also in the light of the position of the United Kingdom and its special relationship with the European Union? How likely is he to postpone the Brexit date, 29 March next year, in order to arrive at a regulated retirement? Mr. Chairman. It remains unclear what the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU will be: will it be the Norwegian style or will it be the Canadian style? One of Prime Minister May's proposals concerns the establishment of a special customs arrangement whereby the United Kingdom maintains European rules but at the same time can raise its own rates. Could this be part of the balanced package that the cabinet wants, I ask the Prime Minister. In any event, the search for a balanced package has the support of the SGP, also with a view to securing that shaky peace that the NRC article I have just quoted referred to. Mr. Chairman. Migration has long been the subject of discussion within the EU about the possibility of unloading, but that idea does not seem to have much impact in the African countries. The SGP asks the cabinet whether it is not time to change course. How can the intended landing countries be stimulated to take action? As far as the common asylum system is concerned, the SGP is keen to see practical improvements, directives, rather than a megalomaniac project of new regulations. Our question is therefore whether the cabinet recognises that this might provide a way out of the deadlock. Then internal security. We can see that, in the area of internal security, the cabinet is primarily adopting an approach that puts the national Member States first. That's good. Can we assume that the cabinet will not support proposals that further undermine national powers? In the fight for cyber security, cooperation between Member States is necessary. We also support the importance of a good exchange of information between Member States' border guards and police, for example. We have already said that we are opposed to the possible extension of the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Our question is therefore whether there are any further developments in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now turn to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Brexit. The Labour Party supports the government's commitment as indicated in the annotated agenda. I think it is incredibly important that we do not underestimate the importance of peace in Europe and that we therefore appreciate the Irish border issue, which the British have sometimes underestimated. I can imagine that there will be a solution whereby some sort of facial loss-saving operation is being carried out towards the British Government, which means that there will still be a customs union there, but we only call it different. As far as I am concerned, there would be room for this, as long as there is consistent action from the EU-27. I have the impression that the Netherlands is committed to this. I still expect an agreement to be reached, but we will have to take account of the situation that is not. Mr Omtzigt, Mr Mulder and I have also pointed this out earlier from our other roles. I would ask the Prime Minister to respond to the preparations, including at the European level. Are provisions being made, for example, to support countries that would be disproportionately affected by a hard Brexit? Then you should think in particular of the Irish, but perhaps also of sectors in the Dutch economy. A third element of Brexit. Previously, this Chamber has adopted a Ploumen motion stating that the Netherlands must fight against a race to the bottom at tax rates between the United Kingdom and the European Union. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what he has done with that motion so far. How did he talk about this with his European colleagues? The second major item on the agenda is migration. You can see that the sense of urgency seems to have disappeared. Rather, draft agreements have been made under high pressure and directions have been identified in which policy should develop. That was supported by the Labour Party and a very large part of this Chamber. But we have also seen that here is quite a difference between dream and deed. Looks like it's sticking. I am curious to see what the Prime Minister has done in bilateral contacts, regardless of what the Commission has to do, in order to get that policy forward. I am also curious to see what he has done to address the need to supplement funds for reception in the region. We can see that these deficits are still there. We also see that the political situation in the countries that are already receiving a great deal of people, such as Jordan, is extremely worrying. That is a risk to those countries and stability in those countries, but it is also a risk to Europe. Not to mention the humanitarian obligation we must feel to provide a decent life for people who are being received elsewhere. Mr. Chairman. The third point I would like to hear from the Prime Minister is the relationship with Saudi Arabia. It has already been mentioned by Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Leijten. That topicality has arisen now that a Saudi journalist appears to have been accidentally tortured to death. That's kind of the current explanation. That is extremely serious. We know that Saudi Arabia is reacting very disproportionately very quickly to individual countries that appeal to it for human rights. We also know that it is a regime that almost permanently violates human rights. I think it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister here to argue that there should be one response, that there should be one front and that European countries should not take different approaches towards the Saudi regime out of opportunism, because of arms trade and other interests. That's all too much to take advantage of. As far as we are concerned, this must mean not only that Minister Hoekstra postpones his journey until further notice, but also that the planned trade mission under the direction of Minister Kaag, in the context of waste disposal, scheduled for next month, will be postponed until further notice. Mr. Chairman. Finally, cyber security and cyber attacks. It has recently been announced that the Netherlands has been able to prevent a serious attack on the integrity of international organisations on our territory. We know that the Netherlands is not the only country involved in this. That press conference was also coordinated with the British. It is very important here that there should be a joint response and that there should also be joint sanctions. The Dutch newspapers contradict each other. The Telegraph reports that a common regime would have already been agreed, but Faith says that it hasn't. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to indicate whether and in what way he will argue in the European Council for a firm common response towards the Russian Federation, because such interference is extremely serious. If they are not provided with a solidarity response from the European Union, they will not stop. Finally, I would like to ask him to comment on the choice of words of the Minister of Defence who used the word 'war'. Is this word cabinet policy? If so, what does this mean, including in the context of NATO? If not, how are we supposed to take this? It's serious enough as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A very important euro summit. This is also reflected in the issues on the agenda and in particular those that will not be dealt with at the euro summit itself, namely the Brexit and the summit of the euro group. They are the starter and dessert of this euro summit. The appetizer is the Brexit. During the previous debate, the Prime Minister assured us that there would be no chaos in the port of Rotterdam and elsewhere in the Netherlands if we were to arrive at a hard Brexit; an outcome which was neither considered desirable by him nor by the CDA. But since even President Tusk is now saying that this is very likely, I think that the preparation should be good. That is why the question to the Prime Minister is what steps are being taken to avoid this. Is there still an additional intensification needed to deal better with the chaotic scenario? In Scotland, a court case has been referred to the highest British court. Perhaps that is important for Mr Stoffer's nephew. This case concerns the question of whether Britain can withdraw the Article 50 notification. That question is going to be very relevant towards March, because it could be called for a postponement. I would urge the Prime Minister to clarify quickly whether it can be withdrawn. So I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. As far as Saudi Arabia is concerned, I agree with the previous colleagues. What happened is not possible. I've never accidentally seen a pathologist with a bone saw go in there to have a conversation with anyone. I can't quite reach that. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, the final part of the summit is the most important, and that is Italy. Italy has a... Is this about the foregoing, Mrs Leijten? I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u17	What Mr Omtzig is going to say about the future of the euro is undoubtedly worth questioning, but this is about the Saudi journalist at the consulate in Istanbul. Does the CDA not agree that you should be clear and say: given the situation and the great doubt about what happened here, are we not going to send our finance minister to a conference next week and thereby legitimize the power that probably committed this murder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u18	It is indeed in the word "probably." I think there is indeed a very interesting suspicion in Saudi Arabia, and a very large one. So I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's response to that. How wise does he think that and I think that the most important thing is that all European countries draw a common line? Last time, when Sweden said on its own to Saudi Arabia "we condemn that," no one participated and Saudi Arabia imposed sanctions against Sweden. Do the countries of the European Union dare to ask for an independent investigation, for example? I think that's the portee of this question. It could be done through the UN or in another way. So that is my question for today, because it is about the European summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u19	In my view, there is already a statement by a number of European foreign ministers and the Netherlands has also joined. Then it is very much in line to say that, as long as there is such suspicion and as long as this has not been independently investigated, we will at least not legitimize power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u20	I would very much appreciate it if that would also be included in the European declaration. I feel like it's not in there yet. That's what I'm saying, because I'm not allowed to quote from the draft declaration. But it would be very nice if 27 European countries were to say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u21	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u22	I hope that the Prime Minister will make a commitment to this and that he will be able to do so here. By the way, if you want to talk about Saudi Arabia: I think the murder of one journalist is extremely serious; however, what Saudi Arabia is doing in Yemen may be a multitude of human rights violations. And I want to talk about the role in Syria at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. Italy has submitted a draft budget which introduces a pre-retirement for everyone from 62 onwards and opens up the expenditure faucet. This means that the budget deficit rises to 2.4% in a country with a public debt of 130%. The government debt is now heading towards the 2,500 billion, just when the ECB stops buying up sovereign debt. Because in recent years, there was only one institution that bought up sovereign debt from Italy, and that was the ECB and the Banca d'Italia. Foreign countries didn't buy anything and families didn't buy anything, and it was clear why they didn't. Now the debt goes up and the ECB stops buying up. This is bloody dangerous! This could really hit the euro hard. The Brexit is only child's play here. Does the government share the view that there is no risk reduction with this behaviour of Italy? I repeat what Mr Van Rooijen said. This is an increase in macroeconomic risk. Through TARGET2, through our participation in the ECB, through the guarantee and the emergency funds, the Netherlands is at risk in many ways, including through institutions such as ING, which simply carry out their banking activities there. Does the government share that opinion? Does that mean that, in accordance with the government agreement, it will insist that there is a mechanism for the write-off of public debt before moving to either the back of lodging with the ESM or the introduction of the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme, with which risk is shared? Does the government share that there can be no such thing at the moment? Mr. Chairman. In fact, I would like to ask the impossible question: does this government have an emergency plan in place for Italy to face financial problems? Because the interest rate is now rapidly rising, towards the 4%. If Italy has to refinance everything by 4%, they will lose 80 billion more and run away completely in a spiral. Then either the ECB will have to do Draghi's "all it takes" and the Italian Draghi will save Italy or not, or the country will go bankrupt. Both are extremely undesirable scenarios. That is why I would like to pay great attention to what is happening there, and possibly to prepare the scenario in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u25	A very different question, in the area of migration. Is the CDA in favour of signing the UN Migration Pact in December?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u26	You ambush me. Can I come back to that in second term or at another time? I am just saying this because I do not see the migration pact on the agenda now, and so I do not have 100% clarity about the text and the benchmarks that go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u27	Given the importance and the fact that there are several countries which, because of doubts about sovereignty and the promotion of migration from Africa to Europe, have decided not to sign it, I would very much like to receive a response from Mr Omtzigt in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'm going to see if that works, but Mrs Maeijer's question was about a pact signed in December, so I understand, and not a pact on the agenda. I will make sure that I give a comprehensive answer to this before December, because this is right. But I've already had enough on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u29	Gee, I've never seen you do that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u30	What haven't you ever seen before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u31	I can't believe you're getting mugged like that and you don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u32	Yeah, I'd rather do that myself, I admit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u33	I'm just okay with that. Very good, just human.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u34	Yeah, I get that. I will tell you even worse: I have speaking time left. Do I have to do any more things to surprise you today? I'm gonna do all that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr President, thank you. Tonight's European summit begins. It'll go on until tomorrow. There are a number of issues on the agenda. I want to pick out two: Brexit and migration. A lot has been said about that. Even less than 165 days to go, the British leave the European Union. The countdown has begun. We've talked a lot about the Brexit here in the Chamber. It's a loss-loss situation. It's about reducing the damage. It has already been said by my fellow Members: the negotiations seemed to be going well at first, but now they seem to stagnate again. It could take a few more weeks. The major stumbling block is the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. And even if there is a deal, we as the Netherlands should continue to prepare for a no-deal scenario, because it still has to be done by the British Cabinet. When you read the British newspapers, you can see that a number of cabinet members yesterday had a "pizza top". I didn't make it up with white wine and red wine. So they don't agree yet. And neither is the House of Commons. We've been there with a number of MPs. Some members of the House of Commons have their own relationship with reality: they think it's a win-win situation and just want to get out without a deal. None of that helps. So we have to keep preparing for a no-deal scenario. The Chamber of Commerce also said today that a large number of Dutch companies have not yet prepared for a hard Brexit. The port of Rotterdam also says so. In short, there is still some work to be done. That is why I have a number of questions. Can the Prime Minister state what is going on with the negotiations with the United Kingdom? Maybe he can also say whether the Netherlands and he himself play a role in this and what role that is. What about our Dutch preparations? I am referring specifically to publicity towards entrepreneurs. Is that okay? You'd say you didn't, so maybe you should take a step with that. The Netherlands is doing something. There's gonna be a special Brexit Act. But the European Commission is also obviously doing something to see how we can continue to fly to the United Kingdom and vice versa, etc. Can the Prime Minister answer that? Then migration. It has already been said that agreements have been made in Salzburg. This seems to be holding still, as Mr Asscher said. The urgency does not seem to be there, but it is time we made agreements, as we did with Turkey, with other countries, for example with the countries of Africa, on reception, return and border surveillance. Because you have to solve a problem before it becomes another problem. Can the Prime Minister say anything about that? How do you pull that subject off again? What are the Austrians doing and what can the Netherlands do? Finally. The situation in the reception camps in Greece is not good. Greece has been given human resources and money, but it is not progressing. Perhaps the Prime Minister could address his Greek counterpart to the situation in the camps, especially when it comes to how we can make them more humane. I have not used all my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u37	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u38	Then the Prime Minister can go to Brussels all the faster and he arrives there a little rested. Then he can stand up for Dutch interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u39	The VVD is always somewhat critical here about combating the transfer of sovereignty to Brussels or whatever and about combating illegal migration. Can I therefore find Mr Mulder on my side in calling on the Prime Minister not to sign the UN Migration Pact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u40	Well, the UN Migration Pact... I heard that my colleague Maeijer also asked Mr Omtzigt that question. I too, if I want to answer the question as to what we want to do with it, have to come back to it in the second term. I don't have that ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'll keep that in your second term. I find it sad that you are now the second spokesperson who does not really have an answer to this, given the great importance of this dossier and what all depends on this pact. But I await your answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u42	There's a saying about crazy people who have questions and pointers who can't answer it all. I don't want to suggest anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u43	I am getting curious about the answers my colleagues have given to Mrs Maeijer's questions. But that's not why I came. Mr Mulder said that it is time that we agreed on migration with the African countries. He's getting a little impatient. The definition of making agreements is that you make them with someone else. The other one has an opinion on that, too. We constantly hear these opinions, for example from Tunisia, Egypt and Morocco. They do not want to make such agreements with Europe. Then Mr Mulder can say that we must do so all the time, but how does he look at the reality of these migration deals? They're not gonna be there, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u44	You shouldn't be discouraged. It's true, it's not getting anywhere. Then it is a question of looking carefully at the interests of other countries, not only those along the Mediterranean but also a little further in Africa. I was in Ethiopia a long time ago and there I heard the African Union say: 'You know what we want from Europe? More trade." Then you have to keep that in your head and think: ah, there are their interests. It is therefore primarily a question of research, a question of research, and a question of what interests they have. Because I also hear that migration among these countries is priority 5. Then we need to see what's on 1, 2, 3 and 4 of them and then see if we can help them with the points they want. That means we have to go and make sure that we know what our partners want. Then you can negotiate. That starts with an inventory of the needs of these countries. But I admit to Mr Van Ojik that it is difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u45	Not only is it difficult, but it also raises the following question. It will be almost three years, well, now two and a half years since the EU-Turkey deal was concluded. And since then, we've been looking for, well, "we": not me, but the cabinet is looking for new Turkey deals. There comes a time when you have to say that apparently it doesn't work out, and that you have to start thinking about other things? Mr Mulder will agree with me, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u46	Then the question is: what other things? Let's try this. As Mr Asscher said, the urgency does not seem to be there. The flow of immigration seems to be less than in recent years, thus reducing the urgency. But like I said, you have to solve a problem before it becomes a problem. So extra commitment, working with countries, digging into it and doing your best. You're gonna have to do that right now. That's hard enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Then Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In recent weeks it has been the internal politics in the United Kingdom, where the moods are getting high. It shows a torn country in despair, with great uncertainty for the inhabitants of the United Kingdom. In particular, the border issue of Ireland/Northern Ireland leads to the emergence of old contradictions. This is very worrying in itself and demonstrates the chaos in our neighbouring country. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, it is important to maintain relations with Great Britain as well as possible. A soft brexit is preferred. The long-term relationship between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom should not be disturbed. The Christian Union therefore supports the government's commitment to this. But also for the Netherlands, the Brexit has big consequences, whether there is a deal or not. When I look at fishing, I have a number of questions. Will the UK divide the North Sea into a western 200 mile zone and an eastern part? Will such a division of the North Sea guarantee the access of European and Dutch fishermen to the waters near England? And what countermeasures will the European Union take if the British reserve significant parts of the North Sea for their own fishermen, either in the transition period or in the subsequent period? Mr. Chairman. The negotiations are daily rates. Michel Barnier, the EU negotiator, says he needs more time. This would also be discussed. But is there more time? Is there more room? I would like a response from the Prime Minister. And how real is the no-deal scenario in the Prime Minister's eyes? That leads me to a number of specific questions. Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union requires that not only the European Parliament should give its opinion, but also the Council. This means that a possible agreement must also go through the capitals. What happens if Parliament does not approve the agreement or if the Council does not conclude an exit agreement because the required voting conditions are not met? And knowing that there is plenty of speculation in the UK about or a second referendum, or more likely new elections, the question arises as to the legal consequences of a possible withdrawal of the intention to leave the Union, in accordance with Article 50. Can the Prime Minister explain that? Mr. Chairman. Article 50 sets out that when concluding an agreement on the conditions for withdrawal from the Union, account should be taken of the future relationship between the Member State, in this case the UK, and the European Union. But how hard do we have to understand these conditions? Can an agreement now be reached without defining the future relationship with the United Kingdom? Mr. Chairman. In the area of internal and external security, we support the government's view that protection against the threat of attacks is primarily the responsibility of the Member States themselves. The same applies to disaster and crisis management. I agree with Mr Asscher's questions about Minister Bijleveld's statements that we are in a cyber war. Is that how the Prime Minister sees it? Let me ask you a question outside the agenda of the next few days. We read in the newspaper Politico that the Liberal dream team, Macron and Rutte, has united: a collaboration between the European liberals and Macrons En Marche. That's what makes me curious. I wonder whether the Prime Minister and the French President have also approached each other in the field of the reforms of European Monetary Union. Has Prime Minister Rutte already convinced President Macron that he would better leave his ideas on his own budget for the euro area and a European Minister for Finance, because we do not see room for that in the Netherlands? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The European Summit will discuss migration further. It will therefore be about the so-called deportation arrangements in North Africa and the controlled centres in the European Union. The Christian Union can support the government's efforts in this respect, because cooperation between the UNHCR and the IOM seems to us to be sensible and can help to ensure that standards from international frameworks are met. At the same time, there is a concern for us, because if we look at the continuing wretched situation on the Greek islands, I wonder whether Europe is capable of meeting the standards of international law in these plans. If we do not succeed on European territory, how could we succeed outside? That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. Can he go into that? My final question concerns the situation in Italy. I agree with the concerns expressed by my fellow Members and the questions they have raised. Italy has tabled a budget that does not comply with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. At the same time, we see that Jean-Claude Juncker is now saying that the European Union cannot live without Italy. He thus gives the impression that he would like to offer some space there. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that the current Italian budget is dangerous for confidence in the commitments made in the six-pack in the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The tension in Brussels is rising: deal or no deal? Will the United Kingdom leave the Union in a controlled manner or will it be a great chaos? In the United Kingdom, however, the awareness that it is going to cost a lot, that it is going to hurt people's lives and that it is painful, both economically and politically. It's toe-curving, sad and sad. I have always said that we would like to keep the United Kingdom with the Union; it is also part of that, for several reasons, economic, social, geographical, cultural. But the British have made this choice and we will have to accept it. It remains, of course, that we need to find a solution that does not go along with the United Kingdom's desire for cherrypicking. Lust without charge, no contribution but keep on participating: that is not possible. I asked the Foreign Minister last week, and now I ask the Prime Minister: can he promise that we will not interfere with the basic European principles when a deal is concluded? Can the Prime Minister give an update on the state of play, also in view of Prime Minister May's speech at yesterday's General Affairs Council? Either way, it's gonna be exciting. The British Parliament is also extremely divided and is in a kind of direct connection with the negotiators, who want to come to a certain step and then get straight back together: this is not going to make it here. Then they get it back and they have to get it back on the table. Barnier has already said: we will probably need more time; we are not going to get out of there tonight. How is the preparation for a no deal, if at the last minute a deal could still be blocked by the British Parliament, I ask the Prime Minister. Because if there is agreement in Brussels, it can still collapse in Parliament. Another point I would like to address, also because last week it caused quite a stir among colleagues, is the MFF, the multiannual budget. I have always said that D66 supports the cabinet's line of greening, modernising, removing funds and taking up the consequences of the Brexit with closed stock exchange, but there is an opinion from the AIV. He says: The Netherlands must be careful not to take too one-sided a position that no other country supports. That is just a public report, as I say to Mr Van Rooijen, who acted like I was quoting secret sources last week. Germany, France, but also the southern and eastern Member States do not want the line that the Netherlands wants, and also net contributors such as Sweden, Denmark and Austria are on a different line. They say that the budget must remain the same, but the Brexithole still needs to be filled. The Netherlands says: that Brexithole must be filled within the existing budget, including the reforms. The point is therefore that the Netherlands may be able to take on the role, the new leadership role that the United Kingdom has always had as the economical Member State taking responsibility for a budget which is not too large. But you don't have to play that card too one-sided, because then you put yourself out of play and you don't get what you want on other important files again. And I'd like to ask the Prime Minister about that. How far does the Netherlands go when it comes to one-sided deployment as one of the few countries that keep saying: we do not want any change if it means that more money has to go to certain important tasks? That is actually the question I would like to ask him, Mr President. Still... I'm gonna finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u51	Yeah, if that's almost...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u52	Well, at least you want me to finish it, so I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u53	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u54	The rule of law, also an important point. Poland recently blocked conclusions, even on Coming Out Day, on gay rights. For example, it was stated in those conclusions that lbti'ers are often victims of discrimination and violence. Poland suddenly did not want to sign it and the text had to be watered down. Unheard. The EU should be a beacon of human rights for all. So please clarify, because Politico reported that the conclusions have already been watered down in the Council Working Group at the request of Poland. Did the Netherlands agree, I ask the Prime Minister, to weaken those passages, those conclusions, about homosexual rights? I also ask about our Prime Minister's long-term strategy. How is he going to ensure in Brussels that Member States such as Hungary and Poland actually commit themselves to European agreements on fundamental rights? Finally, I agree with Mr Asscher's point about cyber, to put it that way. The Netherlands has taken the lead in making common policies to punish more severely after a cyber attack. That is, of course, a very good initiative, but there are sounds that Italy would be against it. Of course, we have seen many times that Italy is annoying when it comes to the relationship with Russia, which is often considered important in Italy for other reasons. But how are we going to get this through? Because I believe that the brutal attack on the OPCW has shown that it is really important that we unite here to stop this kind of digital attack from getting over us without repercussions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. A brief interruption, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr President, last week, in the debate with the Foreign Minister, I responded to a comment made by Mr Verhoeven, who said, by the way, that he is saying it now, so it is not high time that the Netherlands became almost alone that you had to count buttons. Then I asked him if that wasn't actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u57	Don't reconstruct the whole conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u58	Yeah, but it's been said that I'm something out of secret pieces or something... I know the AIV story, too. Then I asked him whether he would not undermine the negotiating position of the Netherlands. The bizarre thing was that he said in his speech a little later that he did support the government's policy. Then I said, "That's a little D66, with the D of ambiguous." First, you undermine the position and a little later you say 'I support the cabinet'. That's what happened last week. Then you shouldn't bring up the AIV. I know them too, or secret stuff. I know my business, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u59	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u60	I am glad that Mr Van Rooijen knows his business and that is how I know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u61	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u62	That's absolutely true, and if I didn't know him better, I'd almost think he provoked me, but of course he doesn't. He's just asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u63	No, and you're not gonna provoke him either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u64	I can confirm to him that the AIV report... I've read that with a lot of interest. It's a public record. Everyone knows that. So the AIV also supposedly weakened the negotiating position of the Netherlands. I don't think we should keep thinking like that. We are concerned that we are not fooling the electorate with a position that is seen differently throughout Europe. So you can have a stake, but you must also be clear about the European force field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u65	Good. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u66	Because it's just so important for people to understand that, why sometimes certain outcomes come out. And that's what I cared about, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u68	Same thing. Because I still find it hard to understand exactly where D66 is. So if you say, "Okay, we support the government's commitment," you say, "I am in favour of a smaller budget with a smaller EU." That's the cabinet's point of view. That's what D66's for. But on the other hand, and he's not quoting that AIV report for nothing, he says, "Yes, but you shouldn't play that card too unilaterally." Look, if I'm for something, I want to play that card one-sidedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u69	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u70	My question is: how do these two things relate to each other, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u71	Yes, Mr Verhoeven, what about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u72	I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u73	That is a very fair question and I note that the President is very encouraging you to ask this question. Mr Asscher and I had a very strong debate on this a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u74	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr Rutte also listened to this and I think I have always been quite clear about it. I'll try to be that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u76	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u77	If you're gonna negotiate, you're gonna have a certain point of view. That is what Mr Rutte has in the negotiations. The stakes are: make sure that the MFF budget doesn't have to go up, make sure you receive the Brexit and make sure you reform in a way that matches the wishes of the Netherlands. If you're gonna negotiate, you're gonna have to look at the partners you're negotiating with. That's 27. All these countries have different views than the Netherlands. In fact, the Netherlands is almost alone with the position we have. The only thing I'm doing, and that's what's needed over the past few decades, is making sure that people understand that you can have a position, but that in a European context, you don't always get what you want. You have to be clear about that too, because if you're not, you fool the voter and people get angry again and they say: you promised that the budget will not go up! Then they say, "It went up anyway, how come?" Well, that's because other countries are different. That is why I warn against making the distance between the population and European politics unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u78	To be honest, I don't think that's too bad. I think everyone understands that if you have to compromise with 27 countries in this case, you can't really get what you want. But it's important to know what you're getting into that discussion with. In the view of D66, therefore, should we try to achieve a smaller budget for the European Union for the new seven-year period? I'm gonna ask you one more time. I'm gonna ask you one more time. So that's D66's point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u79	The position of D66 is as follows, and that happens to be the government's position: if there is a country leaving, the United Kingdom with the Brexit, then the budget can be reduced in its entirety. Within the budget you have left, you have to set new priorities. That is what we call budget reform, towards a common climate approach, border control and climate. Nice points, which D66 fought for, even during the negotiations. Then you have to do other things less. Those are the cohesion funds. Then you come out with a closed scholarship on a better budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mrs Leijten is going to interrupt Mr Verhoeven. She's wearing a red sweater, so I'd say, Mr Verhoeven...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr President, I have one enlightening question. In the last sentence, Mr Verhoeven is talking about a closed scholarship. I think that means staying even and not going down. He means go downstairs, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u82	By 'closed stock exchange' I mean that the Netherlands no longer has to pay because the total budget remains relatively large. Because there's one less country, it can go down. So it's all the same story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u84	The moment D66 says we shouldn't give in to the United Kingdom, we're heading for a hard Brexit. That's the consequence. But I'd like to ask a question about something else. We are also talking at this summit about a very new proposal, namely the E-evidence Regulation. This means that a Member State, including Hungary or Poland, where we have concerns about the rule of law, may say to KPN: may I have Mr Verhoeven's phone records and data? What does Mr Verhoeven think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u85	I have just learned from Mr Omtzigt that, if you do not have an answer ready immediately, you better say that you will deal with it in the second term. I understand Mrs Leijten's question. You know that I always have a bad feeling about all kinds of big organisations that collect data from citizens. I need to see what's going on with this e-evidence. I will be happy to return to that in the second term. If Mrs Leijten is satisfied with that, I will at least get away with it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'm okay with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u87	Last time you asked a question when there was some sort of social summit. Then you pretended that Europe was going to make all kinds of decisions about the Netherlands. Then it turned out to be about adjusting a few rules that had been put into effect a long time ago. Then you made it a little bigger than it was, and I'd find that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u88	No, no, don't. So far, so good. This is exactly what I warned you about. You started very well, very kindly. Keep it that way. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u89	It is precisely this agency that is being expanded, even though it does not exist yet. We also see this in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It will be extended before it exists. You are going to read it, but this regulation will be extended even before it has been decided. Soon Hungary or Poland will even be allowed to tap. So they can listen to all the calls from Mr Verhoeven live, without the Dutch government knowing that. I don't think we should go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u90	Absolutely. We had to laugh for a moment because the chairman had warned us about a confrontation that was coming. That was funny. But this subject you are discussing is a very serious one. We are not laughing at that at all, because this is about tapping people, about privacy, about civil rights. I'm gonna dive right in. If Mrs Leijten is right that all kinds of countries can tap my phone, I am against it anyway. That will not be the case. But if it is to a lesser extent, it can't be good either. Then I'll come back to it in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u92	Madam President. First of all, I express my disappointment at the fact that Sybrand Buma is not here again today, although I had hoped to meet him here again. We are on the eve of a new European meeting, a European summit. I am very concerned about what is on the agenda. There is a debate on the migration pact to be concluded in Marrakesh. There are, among other things, the following sentences in it. "The Heads of Government will also exchange views on the development of landing arrangements in North Africa and controlled centres in the EU, as called for by the European Council in June. The cabinet calls for a sustainable regime for the evacuation of migrants." I am glad that the word'sustainable' is finally being used in the context of immigration, and not just about megalomaniac climate-religious ideas. Now we are talking about immigration policy. What is a sustainable immigration policy? We'd like to hear about that from the Prime Minister. How does he see a long-term sustainable immigration policy for Europe and the Netherlands? That's one. And does this phrase on EU shipping arrangements and centres mean that the Dublin agreements on the country where you have to apply for asylum are going to go on? That's question two. Question three is: that whole word "deportation arrangements," where does that actually come from? I haven't seen it in EU documents before. I do know a very nice book by Jean Raspail. It's called The Dispatch in Dutch, and it's about the demographic transformation of Europe because millions from the Third World are coming here, and about the total collapse of Western civilization. Is that what this term refers to? If not, then again how does the Prime Minister envisage a sustainable immigration policy for our countries? And what will the Netherlands be doing in the negotiations towards this Marrakesh declaration, which I think is hanging over our heads like a sword of Damocles? I'd like to hear his reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. We have come to the end of the first term of office. The Prime Minister needs a suspension of about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u94	I will reopen the meeting and give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked about three subjects plus a whole series of, let's say, individual questions. The three main topics I have brought together are Brexit, Migration and the euro. Then I come to a group of remaining topics, which of course include important topics, but not everyone has talked about. I start with the Brexit and that is where it is difficult, as seen. There's progress. Last week when Angela Merkel visited The Hague, she and I both said that we are moderately optimistic that we are going to get out. I think not so much these days, I have to say, but we are going to get out at all. All the developments, including this weekend, led me to say, when the Austrian Chancellor paid a visit on Monday, that I still am. That optimism has not increased, but at least it has not diminished. Where are we? Of course, they're all moving images. We know that the situation of the Irish border at the moment is the last big issue before us, because many other things seem to be going to countries in the negotiations, for example how much money is involved and how we deal with citizens' rights. But the Irish border issue is indeed extremely sensitive because of the Good Friday agreements of the late 1990s. We don't want to go back to the problems that existed before and the deaths that fell there. The prevention of a hard border is, of course, an absolute priority, but at the same time it brings with it many issues. Because if the UK is aware of the situation, of course, it is in any way associated with the internal market and the customs union, then it is all settled, but that means that they cannot conclude free trade agreements with other parts of the world and that they must continue to implement Europe's rules in the long term. So that is sensitive on the UK side. You are trying to approach each other in an image where you say: is there perhaps something to be thought of in the future to regulate trade across that border so that as a UK you do not have to be a member of a customs union with Europe and can we in the meantime see if we can negotiate such a form for a customs union? Mrs Leijten or someone else said: whether it is called customs union or not, you should at least get an arrangement there. None of that is yet complete. Then there is the question of its length. You can't negotiate such an arrangement before March 29th next year. That will then have to be done at that stage until the end of 2020, that transitional phase, in which they are still fully members of the market and the customs union, without having anything to say about it. Can you extend that phase again? These are all variables that are currently at stake, where there are, of course, sensitivities on the European side about the integrity of the internal market and on the UK side about there being no border in the Irish Sea. Mrs Leijten asked: what went wrong in Salzburg? That was an accident. It wasn't a beautiful accident, but it was an accident. From both sides, I think. I found that Theresa May in the media and in her press statements too much pumped up the expectation that something big was going to happen there, while the only thing that was foreseen in Salzburg was her explanation on Wednesday evening. I wasn't there because of the General Reviews; the Belgian replaced me and on Thursday, when I was there, we would be updated by Barnier, the negotiator, about where things stand. There was never any prospect of a major breakthrough there. Of course, there was the Chequer plan. It was always clear that the Chequer plan would be a basis for building on, but it could never be. Do you formulate that as "it's a basis to build on" or do you say "it can never be"? Some chose the latter. That's, of course, inflammatory. Theresa May then responded to it again and stood on Friday, while we had the second day of the General Reviews here, before the British flags in Downing Street saying: Europe must take us seriously. So that didn't help, to and from, from both sides. It's all a lot quieter now, thank God. My role is formally no different than putting me behind Barnier completely. We will always avoid the opening of a separate negotiating line between the UK and the Netherlands. That simply cannot be done. That's gotta be Barnier. But of course there are contacts, not to have their own negotiating lines, but to be able to strengthen messages from Europe through other channels as much as possible. So there are good contacts with Downing Street and Theresa May, but that's not a separate negotiating trail. Others in Europe also have these contacts, but all as a function of giving full support to what Barnier is doing. That's about where it is right now. Then what could happen today? Since it was not possible to reach a breakthrough on Sunday on that Irish border problem, my expectation at this time would not be that this would happen now with the 28. You get a little bit of what I said jokes to someone; let me not repeat that joke. But you still get the risk of trying to perfect the sausage with 28 people. I don't think that's gonna work. But in the end a good edible product has to come out and that will take a little more time. I'm still moderately optimistic about that, because we're so far. Can you find something that takes into account all the sensitivities? That has to do with the time when they are still members of all the arrangements, it has to do with the question of whether you can extend it, it has to do with the question of whether there is something to come up with that will enable them, in time or not, to continue to conclude free trade agreements, what they want, and how do you avoid the picture that the UK, because of course they do not want to continue to implement the rules of Europe to the limitless, when they do not go about it? Those are all the variables in the game. We've got to figure that out somewhere. Sunday it seemed that we were a long way away, but in the end that just didn't work out. That's not gonna be a nice compromise, really. A number of members here ask about the Dutch interest. Yeah, that's my priority, of course. I'm just sitting here for an interest, that's the Dutch interest. I only think that a good outcome with England and an integrated, lasting European internal market for the 440 million people who go on with each other is also in the Dutch interest. There is therefore no Dutch interest other than in this respect the importance of maintaining a strong European internal market and promoting a good relationship with the UK. Against this background, Mr President, a few specific questions which I have not been able to answer in my general introduction. I think I've been able to answer a lot of questions. Mr Stoffer asked whether there was any possibility of postponing the date of retirement by one year. I do not have the impression, given the climate in the UK, that this is currently being discussed. That is only possible if the UK triggers it. They will then have to ask whether Article 50 can be renewed. I do not mean an extension of the transitional period, but an extension of the exit date. That is how I understand Mr Stoffer's question. There is nothing to say about the additional European Council in November. We need to see how far we're getting now to see if there's any reason to let it go. Mrs Maeijer and Mr Omtzigt have asked questions about the preparations on the Dutch side. They're being hit on all sides now. We are preparing as best we can for all scenarios. I have to be a little careful to go into too much detail, because that's not really my wallet anymore, that's really with the State Department. These debates will undoubtedly take place here, but I would like to say a few things. We are identifying what measures need to be taken. In the necessary operational logistics preparations, we are of course looking for good consultation with the implementation organisations and inspection services. For example, there is the ferry consultation, organised from customs with relevant government parties and private sector parties. The departments have transferred stakeholders, so VWS with the healthcare sector, IenW and JenV with parties from transport and logistics, OCW with parties from education and sciences et cetera et cetera. Customs started mapping the impact in the spring of 2017 and, as we know, is also expanding capacity. The impact on seaports and the aviation sector has been identified with all stakeholders. There too et cetera et cetera, because a lot is happening. Today you saw in the newspapers that companies should do more there. It is also working terribly hard to make companies aware of the risks they would run if there were a terrible accident, namely an over-the-cliffs scenario next year. As a result, perhaps something about the legal side, on which several questions have been asked, by Mrs Van der Graaf, but also by others. Mr Omtzigt referred to the Scotland case on Article 50. That is a question for a Scottish judge for a preliminary ruling. It is now up to the Court of Justice to answer that question. The Court has decided to deal with this matter as a matter of urgency. The Netherlands has a clear position. We are saying, which is in line with the European Commission's position, that if we were to withdraw the notification of Article 50, we could only do so with the unanimous agreement of the 27 EU countries. This also applies, we like the Netherlands, to the extension of Article 50. In my view, this is a unanimous Council conclusion, so it is not that all parliaments have to agree. Our position is that the European Council or another Council must agree unanimously. I'm just gonna finish this for a second. Maybe that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u97	A number of other questions have been asked in the extension. What are the legal consequences of a possible withdrawal? That would mean, I say to Mrs Van der Graaf, that the UK would of course remain a member of the European Union. But, yes, there is no reason at the moment to accept that, as much as we would like to. As a result, the question is again: when is the deadline that a hard Brexit cannot be avoided and what happens if the Parliament does not approve the agreement? The withdrawal agreement, the withdrawal agreement, is an EU-only treaty and therefore does not need to be ratified by each Member State individually. That is where the European Parliament must agree to the withdrawal agreement, after which the General Affairs Council can also conclude the withdrawal agreement. To this end, at least 20 Member States must agree. Then there is the preparations for aviation, which Mr Mulder in particular asked for. That is where it is really crucial, we believe, that the Commission is steering contingency planning, because at the aerodrome the EU has exclusive competence. The Commission is expected to provide more information on the preparations in the near future. Of course, we will be closely involved. We hope it is not necessary, but it is, of course, a relevant point. Like seaports, the aviation sector is important. So we expect information from the Commission on this shortly. I think, Mr President, that I have answered most of the questions on the legal side. I do have a few more questions about preparations for a hard Brexit, including fisheries. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u98	Just a little more time at this point. My question was: what if the European Parliament does not agree or what if you do not get the necessary 20 votes in the General Affairs Council? What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u99	Then it's off the table. Twenty states must agree and the European Parliament must agree. If that doesn't happen, the withdrawal agreement isn't concluded. Then there's a hard Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u100	Then there's a hard Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u101	I think. Right? Yes. There is no further delay. Yeah, maybe you can come up with a quick decision to postpone Article 50. However, we must be careful that this debate abroad does not appear as if we are taking it into account. These are what-if questions. For the foreign press, who is now translating this debate: we do not think this, these are the what-if questions. But I think this is the honest answer to that what-if question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u102	I actually think it's cliff-edge, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u103	Yeah, what did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u104	Then we'll just crash into the canyon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u105	Yeah, about the cliff and cliff-edge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u106	A hard Brexit can of course also be the outcome after the extension period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u107	Yeah, that's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u108	Let's talk about the date. I didn't hear what the deadline was in the end. I'd like to know, because I thought that was a very good question. The Prime Minister says it's EU-only, so the Dutch parliament doesn't have to agree. But what about those 20 Member States that should be ahead of the RAZ? Surely we must be able to send the government on a mission? Then we'll go over it, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u109	Sure. This is discussed in Parliament, but it is not a treaty that Parliament should agree to. But, of course, the government here is looking for a mandate in the Chamber just as usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u110	So it might even be that we say "sorry, this is not good for us to agree"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u111	Yes. In the strictest sense, you might then have the situation that the government says 'we are going to agree', with the risk that a motion of censure will be tabled against the cabinet, another what if, I stress. For it is not a treaty that should be explicitly approved here by Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u112	The Prime Minister has already spoken about Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u113	Yeah, I'll get to that. Perhaps I still have to answer, Mr President; excuse Mr Van Rooijen. Barnier said something about the deadline. He said that the deadline for reaching an agreement is actually this year, preferably well before the end of the year. You'll be talking about November anyway. Of course, that all becomes liquid again in a "what if" that crashes everything. Then, of course, you go back to looking for solutions and working nights. But if you want to do it nicely, then it is useful if that happens well before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u114	The Prime Minister spoke about the European Parliament, about what they can and cannot do, but there is another parliament, the British Parliament, which has to approve. My question is, of course, that the Prime Minister cannot go into detail about how Barnier and the Council deal with the following situation immediately. Suppose you had a deal with the uncertainty that remains about whether the British Parliament would agree. Is there gonna be a deal back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u115	Ideally close Barnier and Raab... The two negotiating teams come to a conclusion. On the European side, Barnier goes to the RAZ and Parliament. The European Council will find something of it. In a formal legal sense, the European Parliament and 20 Member States must agree. On the British side, May, I presume, will return to her cabinet. It is in itself a one-party system in which her position is, of course, such that she can go through with things, more than I can do here. But it seems complicated to me. That cabinet's gonna have to find something, I think, and then it's gonna go to parliament. Then you'll get into the what ifs. If Parliament says no, then the Treaty of Accession has been rejected. I assume that a whole new political dynamic will develop in the United Kingdom and possibly on the European side, with a wide range of possibilities. If I start speculating on that, the risk is that the foreign press will think: Rutte apparently thinks it's going to happen. Maybe I shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u116	That means that the end of the exercise would be if the British Parliament said no and that there might not be another English request to change dates, customs union or other things?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u117	You don't know that. Of course, you can never say no or yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u118	You actually said it'd be shuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u119	Yes, but if the parliament votes the treaty... We've had the Ukraine referendum here. That was tuned, too. Finally, by the end of 2016, with an interpretation of the outcome of the referendum, it was possible to conclude that treaty with Ukraine. Although the Netherlands was opposed in principle, it succeeded by... But there you are again in a what if. It seems to me that if they are out and it is submitted to the parliament, which then says no, it should be ready. Otherwise, you're gonna keep busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u120	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u121	But strictly legal it is: as long as the clock is ticking, the clock is still ticking. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps a few more things at this point, starting with the Ploumen motion. We agree with the motion. We are in favour of that level playing field. This also applies to standards in the fields of humans, animals, plants and the environment. It is important that there is no undermining. Economically, this is important in order to avoid unfair competition. It is important that we also mention in the guidelines for the future relationship that there should be a level playing field, including governance and effective enforcement measures. It has also been a Dutch initiative to achieve this and to get it so hard in the guidelines. There is broad support for this in the EU-27. Barnier has also repeatedly advocated this. We'll keep naming that. At the same time, of course, there is another situation when the UK finally leaves the European Union, both within the EU and in relation to the UK, but what we have been given in the guidelines remains a guideline for us. Then there is the question: can we promise that we will not interfere with our basic principles? Yes, we will not, because if you did, you would cause the project that goes on and with that 440 million people great damage, I say to Mr Verhoeven. Europe is more than a market and a currency, but it is also a market and currency, and above all a market. Of course, you do enormous damage if you were willing to deviate on it. I have already spoken about the port of Rotterdam. Then there is the question of whether provisions can be expected for countries that are disproportionately affected by Brexit. That is not, in itself, the issue. When it comes to our commitment to the MFF, it is of course known that the Netherlands believes that a smaller EU should also mean a smaller budget. Where the Netherlands is threatened with being hit through the MFF, our commitment is well known. I also say to Mr Verhoeven on that particular point that I must abide by the coalition agreement. At the moment, this government agreement does not leave room for increased EU payments in the financial transfer. At the same time, we are also aiming for modernisation. There is a broad coalition in Europe that wants that. Those cards haven't been shaken yet. There are a few countries that are arguing for substantial additional expenditure, but that number is not growing at the moment. It's more like shrinking. The Commission proposal currently before us is very rough. What the Netherlands ultimately wants to achieve is both a modernisation, and a net payment position that is in line with our current position. Fair sharing of burdens will be an important element of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u122	I understand the Prime Minister's position very well. I just think it is right to include in these talks that a disproportionate shock for the Irish economy can occur here, which they themselves are not responsible for and which they would not be able to cope with by reforming their own economy. I think it's a good thing that, if you're talking about preparing for the unwanted what-if scenario that a hard Brexit is going to come, there's an opening for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u123	Yes. I had understood the question in such a way that it was about the Brexit in a general sense. But especially when Mr Asscher talks about a hard Brexit, it is absolutely true that Ireland is number one on the list of affected countries. That's what we have to relate to. That's a fact. In today's MFF there are pots that you can take into account this kind of big shocks. But of this nature and extent? No. That's a theme. There are other instruments around stabilisation. Yeah, once. We really need to make sure of that. I see Mr Verhoeven coming forward, but I was not quite finished with the Brexit. Well, I wasn't done with it at all, not even in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u124	But it's almost done, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u125	Let me take a look at the preparation at European level, which has been asked for. There's a lot going on there. There is a whole team dealing with preparatory measures in the areas where the European Union has competence. There's a lot going on there. The Commission also informs EU Member States, third countries and stakeholders about the legal consequences of each scenario and launches the relocation of EU agencies from the UK. We note this, of course, with the European Medicines Agency, but it also applies to the European Banking Authority, which is going to Paris. I have already said that it is really crucial for a number of things that the EU, where it really has a number of exclusive powers, such as in the field of aviation, is very active in steering these matters. As far as fishing is concerned, it is a real priority for the Netherlands. That's what the coalition agreement says. For us, guaranteeing access to fishing grounds is of prime importance. I cannot say exactly what the UK is doing on this point. They want to develop a mechanism to discuss access to water, they said. We are committed to a link between market access and access to UK waters. This is also laid down in the March guidelines and has broad support for the EU-27. During the transitional period, no change is expected with regard to the status quo. We will defend the interests firmly for the future relationship. Our commitment is to link existing mutual access to water and stocks to maintaining market access for the United Kingdom. On this specific point there is also an extensive AO on Brexit and the LNV topics. That AO is next Thursday, so tomorrow, with Minister of Agriculture Schouten. The last question I have left to answer is whether it is possible to reach an agreement on withdrawal without agreement on the future relationship. We are trying to bring these two together in the sense that there will be a legally binding agreement and that there will also be the framework of future relations at the same time. These future relations must, of course, be countries in another legal area. We have the time until the end of 2020. Legally it is possible in itself to have a withdrawal agreement without political agreement on the future relationship, but it is not obvious and, we believe, is not desirable. Nor can I imagine that the UK will want or will accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u126	Are you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u127	Yeah, this was, as far as I'm concerned, the Brexit part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his answers. He said at the beginning that Salisbury was an accident. Then he explained that this was because the way you look at the UK Chequer Plan led to that explosive atmosphere. But at the end of his speech he said at my question whether or not we are going to break the basic principles that we are not going to do so because this is in the interests of the larger project in the longer term and because you have to show that you can't just step out on the basis of all kinds of favorable cherrypicking conditions. But the Chequer plan actually says: we can import goods, we keep the border open; no customs and no hard border. We also have rules that we can partially fill in in our own way. That still sounds to me like torturing the EU's principles, so it is still difficult to take that Chequer plan as a starting point when it is not actually feasible? Isn't that what May must do in some way to force him to take a step towards the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u129	The tricky thing is how you approach it. You can say that the Chequer Plan is contrary to a number of fundamental points that relate to the way in which we look at the integrity of the internal market, for example the four freedoms. Mr Verhoeven is right in his own right. That's how you look at it. You can also say that it is good that the British Prime Minister has come up with a plan in which she says she wants to talk to the EU about customs arrangements with the EU and how the United Kingdom can continue to have access to forms of the internal market. Then you can say: okay, it's good that this is in it and let's have the conversation. The precise impact of the Chequer Plan seems to us to be vulnerable to the points I have just mentioned, which in turn affect the fundamental principles of the European Union. In my press release, I chose to do the second. You can also do the first one but that can also be explained as: then I come up with a plan and then it is immediately referred to the garbage can. So it's just how you fly it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u130	I couldn't agree more. I follow the Prime Minister and I even support him in choosing that interpretation, the phrase line number two. That is, what more chooses for the positive, the glass is half full and this is a meaningful step that can eventually lead to... But in this respect, the Prime Minister is, I would almost say, a wise person who is not a hardliner. He is trying to see the positive side in the end to lead the negotiations to success. I think that is a very good attitude, but both in the United Kingdom and in the EU, a number of Member States, and Macron is perhaps one of the most far-reaching ones, of course, is 'hardlining'. Perhaps the Prime Minister is wise enough to carefully scan that middle way to get through the funnel under pressure and time of interest, but is that going to work with those hardliners on both sides? That is the point, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u131	I think it's possible. There is a different political culture. When a French President speaks, the French State speaks, and of course that is always accompanied by a little more volume than the Dutch Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u132	Maybe you're jealous of that sometimes? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u133	Yeah, actually, I am, but I'm totally happy with our state system. I gave a speech a few years ago on Dutch Prime Ministership and I think what you need to have fits exactly with the Netherlands. I don't want to change anything about that. Without going into this point now, there are, of course, cultural differences. It is my impression that, in the end, the French too are absolutely prepared to contribute to decent compromises. The fact that Macron has been very active in receiving May at his holiday address and I know that there is also intensive telephone contact between the two, really shows that Macron is also trying to make a very positive contribution. But again, when the French President talks, that's a little more in capital letters than if the Dutch Prime Minister does. Mr. Chairman. Migration is the second theme. Maybe a general introduction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u134	Very briefly. We must keep pace with this, otherwise we will have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u135	I'll be brief and then I'll have a lot of questions to ask. Three elements. We want to make agreements such as those made with Turkey, also with countries in Africa. Of course, all kinds of questions have been asked about this. Is it true that things are harder there and better there? I'm not gonna say anything about that. If you ever want to reach those agreements, there is no point in going one by one and saying: it seems to be working and it doesn't seem to be working. The odds that it'll ever work out are really zero. So there will continue to be rumours about this, but the fact is that if we make such an agreement, the Dutch Government will, of course, discuss with the Chamber in this kind of consultation about what the Chamber thinks before it can or will agree to it. So it always comes back here. That's been confirmed here before. Does this mean that the government will always follow the majority? Well, not necessarily, but at the same time we know that if we do not, we are at risk of being dismissed. In the end, Parliament has all the power to do so. That is the point of the agreements with African countries and the use of all European and national resources for development cooperation to remove the root causes of migration. Then, on the European side, it is particularly important for countries such as Italy, Spain and others to have proper registration of the people arriving. That registration is crucial, because if you don't have it, you can't decide who has to go back. If that happens properly, the rest of Europe can say: let us see if we can redistribute the pressure not only on Italy or Spain. But at the moment, the secondary migration that is arriving here is greater than the primary migration that arrives in Italy, because it is so poorly registered. The Netherlands is willing to help set up those controlled centres with all our technology and so on. Actually, those are the old hotspots with a plus on them. Ter Apel is not a controlled centre. This is a place in the Netherlands where registration etc. takes place. But the way it happens there, European and even worldwide, is seen as a standard that you can use. I refer to beautiful articles in Der Spiegel and other magazines. So we would like to offer this technique to countries like Italy to say: do it like this, then do it in a decent way; it is humane, it is fast and the costs are still limited. That brings me to the third point, and that is solidarity. That's where it's all stuck, of course. At that point, I don't expect a breakthrough these days either. That's really stuck. This concerns the future of the Common European Asylum System. Mr President, perhaps I can do it as follows, also in view of the time. This is the general introduction: what kind of agreements do you make with African countries, how do you deal with registration in Europe and how do you then ensure solidarity? Let me see if I have a few more detailed questions on this point. Maybe we can do a round right away. Because I think I have already answered a great deal with the general introduction. The word "arrangements": that used to be something else. Well, I guess so. I am just talking about Turkey-like agreements with countries in Africa. They must comply with all standards, including IOM, UNHCR and so on. Then there was a question from Mr Van Rooijen. Excuse me. I'll be right with Mr. Asscher. Mr Van Rooijen had a question about the marshall plan for Africa. Is that from the ground? There are proposals from the President of the European Commission. It is a package that addresses the common issues of economic growth and prosperity. This plan concerns the financing of a comprehensive development programme for Africa. So it's more than just related to migration. Soon the BNC sheet will be sent to the Chamber. There was a question from the VVD about the situation on the Greek islands. I spoke to my Greek colleague in Salzburg about this. Mark Harbers, the Secretary of State for Justice, also did so at last week's JHA Council. We offer all our help. It is accepted here and there, but the fact is that we cannot enforce it. Eventually we cannot force the Greeks; we cannot make them happy against their will. I agree with Mr Mulder: this sometimes leads to distressing situations on those islands. At this point, I think there is one more question. I'm gonna take it apart. It is Mr Asscher's question: what have we done to obtain the necessary additional funds to provide shelter in the region? The Netherlands has called for additional funds to be made available. For example, there is the EUR 500 million transferred from the European Development Fund reserve to the EU Trust Fund's migration fund for programmes in African partner countries. That's what happened. Of these, three quarters have now been committed to programmes for the Sahel and West Africa, and a quarter to programmes for the Horn of Africa. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation also made bilateral funds available to countries in the Middle East and in the Horn of Africa for reception in the region and root causes. This is also in line with the policy of the previous cabinet. Next to Mr Baudet's question on a sustainable migration agenda. I can see it by the interrupting microphone. He's familiar with the cabinet's view. Ideally, people don't get into boats anymore. If you have Turkey-like agreements with enough countries in Africa, the people there will be taken care of. Europe is then prepared, through resolution programmes, to ease the rising pressure that will then arise there by bringing people to Europe in a controlled way, in numbers that are manageable and in a decent manner. They will then be offered shelter here as well. But it itself, coming to Europe on its own will then stop by the agreements we have with countries in Africa with which that is possible. Finally, Mrs Maeijer's question on the migration pact. That is not a legally binding instrument or document. It stresses precisely the sovereignty of the Member States in order to maintain their own eligibility criteria. As far as the cabinet is concerned, it is in line with the New York Declaration of 2016, on which the Chamber has been fully informed. It is a typical UN compromise, as always when more than 200 countries agree. And yes, it calls for better cooperation, for example, on legal migration and respect for human rights. That's what we want. We want more legal, desirable migration, as I just outlined in response to Mr Baudet, but only as a replacement for irregular migration flows. It's a lot more than that, by the way. It is also about cooperation on forced return. I think that's something Mrs Maeijer attaches to. It's about saving lives at sea. It is about the evacuation of persons and better border management to combat illegal migration, including PVV priorities, and about tackling smuggling and trafficking in human beings. In that sense, I think it is a good thing that the Netherlands is taking a positive view of this migration pact. Mr President, I believe I have answered all the questions on migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u136	An interruption by Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u137	Did the Prime Minister actually say that we want more migration, we want more ordered desired migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u138	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u139	Then we'll look for the Acts. I suggest we suspend for now, because that's what the Prime Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u140	Well, what I said is that we want to stop people coming to Europe themselves, sometimes dying and using the cynical business model of smugglers. That people are being taken in safe locations in Africa, so they have shelter there. And that Europe is then prepared, in order to ease the pressure that is being exerted there and in accordance with the letter from the previous cabinet, I thought I would take a look at Mr Asscher's report on 9 September 2015, through resettlement programmes to bring people to Europe. But in numbers that are manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u141	What are "manageable" numbers according to the Prime Minister? What is a sustainable migration policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u142	That will vary from country to country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u143	For the Netherlands. What do you think of a sustainable number of people that we can get out of Africa and the Middle East every year? How many people are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u144	You can't pick up on that, but I think Mr Baudet recognizes the great social tensions that arose in 2015 and 2016, when the numbers that came to it reached such a level that our services that deal with it and our society were no longer able to deal with it in a decent way, and we as a political collective could no longer convey the feeling that we were in control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u145	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u146	So, how much is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u147	That's never gonna stick at some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u148	But if you can tell me how many not... So not 200,000 a year? Not 300,000 a year? How much?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u149	If you look at the situation of 2015 and 2016, I think you should see that we felt that those numbers were not manageable, wide, here in the Chamber and in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u150	Now Mr Van Ojik. No, Mr. Baudet, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u151	Yes, Mr. Chairman. However, back to those Turkey-like deals and the..... let's just follow that use of words.................................................................................................................................................................................. That's a search that's been going on for, say, two and a half years. The Prime Minister says he can't really say much about that. But as long as we focus on that, we're not into other things. You could also say at some point: it seems that it is not possible to find partners in North Africa who want to make deals with us in Turkey. Every three months we stand here again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u152	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u153	... and there's still nothing concrete. Isn't it time to draw a conclusion from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u154	Well, one of the conclusions you might draw from that, I think, is that talking so openly about that kind of thing without Africa being there doesn't help. I always thought so; but well, you can't put everything all the way to your control. That discussion at the end of June, so openly, until deep into the night... And that image: yes, now we have a solution; Africa is going to solve it for us. Of course, that's crazy; you shouldn't want that at all. What we wanted to say, of course, is that it would be a good idea to make an agreement like that with Turkey, including with other countries in the region where people come from when they come from Africa. This is in order to kill that business model of those boat smugglers, so that people don't die on the Mediterranean. But also to avoid the chaos that sometimes arises, and to bring people from Africa in a much more regulated way, in this case, to Europe in manageable numbers. Then I would point out that things are working out. You can see that the Egyptian Coast Guard is stopping the unworthy boats right now, saving people from those boats and bringing them safely ashore. That's good. We also see Egypt receiving many people, offering them access to education and care. The Netherlands and the European Union also support Egypt in this. So that's where things happen. Not very detailed agreements have been made with Egypt; there is no need for that deal, for they are already doing so. But you can see that the current from Egypt has been severely reduced at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u155	Unfortunately, it often moves elsewhere. Of course, the Prime Minister knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u156	The waterbed effect occurs. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u157	The Prime Minister says he can't say anything about those talks, because then he puts them in danger. How much longer are you gonna...? Is it this European summit? Is it the next European summit in December? Is it next spring's? When will the balance be drawn up? We've been trying to do this for three years now. Soon it'll be three years. It'll work this way, or it won't work. When are we gonna tell them to think of something else? Then perhaps we can have the debate on that. We are losing a lot of time in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u158	Because we are now talking about that aspect of policy, the idea arises that that is also the only aspect, but the policy is and-and-and-and-so. The policy focuses on proper registration in Europe. Policy is aimed at achieving a fair distribution of the issue in Europe. The policy is aimed at curbing this flow to Europe at all. We're talking about that last one right now. But it's not like, because we're working on it, that others don't happen. You'll have to do everything at once on that aspect. Inside the one You have to make sure you use your development aid to take away the root causes. As the Netherlands, we are already doing so with our modernised development cooperation policy. We must bet on helping in the military sense, if that is necessary, as happens in the G5 Sahel. The Netherlands makes a contribution in Mali, but of course it also applies to Burkina Faso, Chad, Niger, etc. It has to do with agreements we have with coastal countries. It hasn't worked yet. But you can see that very good things are happening to Egypt, without such an agreement, which is also supported by the European Union and the Netherlands. So inside that and the So you're gonna have to do all that at the same time. It's not like you're gonna choose one solution, you're gonna walk that road, and you're gonna walk another way if it doesn't work. No, you walk all the roads at once. That was migration, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u159	I understand that the Prime Minister intends to sign a migration pact in December. The United States has said that they are not participating because they are concerned about the loss of sovereignty. For that reason Hungary does not sign up for it either. Poland and Austria still have big questions about it. Seems like a really bad idea to me. But does the Prime Minister say that these countries' concerns are total nonsense?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u160	In order to use Hungary as a standard in the area of decent migration policy, I would like to say a few words about the search. This compact accentuates the sovereignty of the Member States. It is not a legally binding document. It stresses the sovereignty to conduct its own admission policy. At the same time, good agreements are being made around the world, for example on how to deal with the withdrawal of migrants who are not allowed to stay, on how to prevent illegal migration, on how to ensure that the whole issue of forced return is properly dealt with, on how to save lives at sea. These are all matters that I think are important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u161	I don't really hear an answer. Once again, I mentioned Hungary, but I also mentioned the United States. I mentioned Poland and I mentioned Austria. These are all countries that are concerned about the transfer of sovereignty and all kinds of rights granted to migrants in this Pact. Doesn't the Prime Minister share these concerns at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u162	I do not think that Mrs Maeijer is doing justice to the debate that is taking place in these countries. It's really more nuanced. But my answer would be, and still is, that this pact emphasizes precisely the sovereignty of the people who sign it. It is not legally binding, but you do make agreements worldwide about humanity as well as about return policy and how you deal with illegal migration. That seems to me to be in the interest of the Netherlands. It's part of our and-and-and-policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mrs Maeijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yeah, well, finally, another question. I asked the Prime Minister a question about setting up controlled centres in the European Union. Both the Prime Minister and Secretary of State Harbers say that the Netherlands has promised to provide expertise. So, let me get this straight, that's expertise we're going to be offering in other countries. Can the Prime Minister therefore also rule out this question, which had not yet been answered, that such a controlled centre would be housed on Dutch territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u165	That would not be obvious and weird, because how could people, except through secondary migration, get this primarily? At least, unlike at Schiphol Airport, but of course we have all the amenities there. And of course, the vast majority doesn't come through Schiphol Airport, but comes over land. They are not registered in Italy, so that seems very theoretical. Then, of course, we try to manage this through Ter Apel and our entire further system. But we want to encourage Italy in particular to do the right thing and to offer all the expertise for this, as I have just outlined. We have a few things in the Netherlands, for example, let us be proud of them too, which are really state of the art in the area of migration and asylum issues. Think about what our IND is doing, what the COA is doing and what's happening in Ter Apel. This is seen worldwide as a standard and you can offer it because it is cost-effective, humane and fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u166	Then I'll go to Mr. Stoffer, because he hasn't come yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u167	But I was standing here earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u168	Yes, I know, but Mr. Stoffer hasn't come yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mr President, I am sure Mr Baudet would like to wait one minute for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u170	Well, one minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u171	Yes, I don't need much more, although of course it depends on the Prime Minister's answer. But let's talk about the UN Pact. At first I had the impression that it would not become part of the debate, but it will be. Look, the Prime Minister says: this seems to be good for the Netherlands. That is of course his consideration and his approach at the moment, but yesterday Mr Baudet asked for a debate on this pact, and unfortunately that request was only supported by the PVV and the SGP. But because of that I do not know whether there is complete support in Parliament to sign this. One of the things that we lack in this pact proposal, for example, is precisely the responsibility of states to take back their own nationals and ensure that they receive them together in the region. My question is: is that so? And if so, is it in the interest of the Netherlands to sign this? We have our doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u172	This debate is about the European Council. This is not on the agenda. Then what I'm trying to do is this. If there are issues on the agenda of such a European Council in this wide range of subjects, I try to say: okay, I can get official support to serve the Chamber anyway. The answer I just gave is to serve the Chamber. Mr Stoffer is now going two layers deeper, and that really has to be done with the ministers responsible, because I am not competent enough in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u173	But I understand that the Prime Minister will at least argue that point I just mentioned when it comes to the sidelines. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u174	I didn't say that. I said: if there is a question that does not appear on the agenda, I am happy to answer it, in this case, about the UN migration pact. But what you are doing now is digging a few layers deeper into it, and for that I now lack the parate knowledge to go into it. It's better to do that with the trade minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u175	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u176	Yes, but the tricky thing is: we tried that yesterday, but that debate with the trade minister is not going to happen. So we'll just have to find another way in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u177	And so you try here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u178	But does the Prime Minister agree with me that until December we will not be able to say anything about this as a parliament at all, except outside the streets?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u179	But, of course, I'm not in charge of parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u180	No, I'm glad you didn't! That's what we're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u181	I'd like to find some of that, too, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u182	...you're not going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u183	No, I understand. But then I made my point: as far as we are concerned, this pact, as it now looks, should not be signed. Let me focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u184	You've made your point. Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u185	I am glad that Mr Stoffer has gone for me, because my point is exactly in line with that. It's unbelievable. I hear here the Prime Minister denounce Hungary's immigration policy, one of the few countries that really want to do something about the structural demographic transformation that is now falling over Europe. Austria is out of the game. Poles aren't in. All kinds of other countries are not participating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u186	And your question, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u187	How can you defend that it is good for the Netherlands to sign an immigration pact, later in Marrakesh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u188	I've just done that in detail. I have explained that, in my view, a whole series of issues which we consider to be politically important are dealt with here. They're intentions. They are not legally binding agreements. There's going to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u189	We've seen with Urgenda what happens then!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u190	No, Mr. Baudet! Now I'm really gonna stop you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u191	There will be no transfer of sovereignty. And again, if Mr Baudet wants to talk about this further and the details of it, then my proposal would really be to discuss it with the ministers responsible. This was not on the agenda for today, so I am not prepared for that level of detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr. Baudet, your microphone isn't on yet, so no one will hear what you're saying. One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u193	But that is what the European summit is about in the coming days, and you do not even know what the treaty says, you have not even thought about what that means for the Netherlands in the longer term!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u194	Well, the next few days are about European migration policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u195	Yes, and we are talking about this treaty, which will be signed in Marrakesh in December. It is on the agenda of the European Summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u196	Yes, but over the next few days, it's about how we untie European asylum policy, how we can solve the whole issue. We're not going to talk in detail about a UN convention in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u197	I suggest you proceed, Prime Minister. You have a second term, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u198	Yes. Very briefly, just a few more points. No conclusions are foreseen on the euro. A lot of comments have been made that have been made more often about the Banking Union. I do not think I have heard anything contrary to what the government is trying to achieve at the moment. For example, a European Deposit Guarantee Scheme also requires that there is a prudential weighting of government bonds on bank balance sheets and that there is a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism-like solution before you can talk about a backstop, but none of that is going to come up now. There's no conclusions on that. We talked about this in June. This returns in December, on the basis of preparations that are now taking place among the Finance Ministers in the Eurogroup. So this will only be a general discussion without conclusions, at the request of the French, I understand. I'll make the known points. One: if you want an ESM backstop on the SRF, you need to find a solution to the sovereign debt restructuring issue. EDIS: first risk reduction. For this, it is necessary that the NPL issues are resolved and that you have a weighting of government bonds on bank balance sheets. We are against shock absorption mechanisms outside the Multiennial Financial Framework. We would like to transform the ESM into an instrument that also runs programmes and delivers the macroeconomic data, but we are not in favour of using the ESM to absorb shocks other than those already provided for in the ESM agreements. That is a well-known Dutch position. The coalition agreement is clear on that. No conclusions are expected. It's a general story. It'll be back in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u199	Who was first on the Interrupt Microphone? That's unclear? Then I go to Mr Van Rooijen; then I just look at the age.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u200	The Prime Minister has said before, and I have just mentioned this, that it is very important that we always keep old agreements before we talk about all kinds of new modalities. Does he want to confirm that again, and does he want to keep putting that in? In particular, the French also want to talk about the deposit guarantee scheme. They wanted that in the summer, but that is all a bit delayed; it could be December. Can the Prime Minister promise that the progress of the deposit guarantee scheme will not be discussed until there is absolute clarity that banks are sound, in particular in Italy, and as long as there is no valuation of bonds, so that government bonds are weighed on their value and not kept at 100%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u201	I'm gonna go back anyway, or it's all gonna be very broad. We have made agreements, politically, in my view, here, about what we think of the weighting of government bonds on bank balance sheets. In my view, there is no great enthusiasm for a European deposit guarantee scheme at all, but well, political agreements have been made on this in the roadmap to the Banking Union. You need to have a risk reduction before you can have risk sharing. Look at the issue of non-performance loans and so on. Actually, I just said it all. So Mr Van Rooijen is not saying anything new, but I am not going to take his words literally, because he may have a whole world behind it again, so I repeat what we have previously agreed politically on. The same applies to the backstop on the SRF from the ESM. For that you will have to go to a form of sovereign debt restructuring, with first appointments plus so many other things before you can do that. The latter is a point where possible progress can be made towards the end of the year, but that will really depend very much on how things work in the euro group. The risk of this discussion now is that we convince each other of decisions that we have already taken 30 times, while there is nothing new to be foreseen in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u202	You did say that political agreements had been made. It clearly interprets every country differently, especially France. My point is that the Chamber unanimously adopted a motion tabled by me six months ago stating that there should be a weighting of government bonds. We know that this is not negotiable from southern Europe and Japan. But if Italy's government bonds are not worth 100%, then those banks are more vulnerable and we can never take a step towards a deposit guarantee scheme, because then we will be liable for worthless bonds in Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u203	There is broad support in Europe for the idea, not for everyone, indeed, Mr Van Rooijen is right in saying that if you would like to take steps... I must say that the first time the deposit guarantee scheme was discussed at European level was in December 2010. Then I sat there for two months, I've been there for eight years and it keeps coming back. We are not taking any further steps and I do not expect any major progress in the coming months. If there's any progress, it's up to that backstop on the Single Resolution Fund. But here too, I believe, we have found broad support in the Chamber for what conditions we lay down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u204	Finally, I'd like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u205	Will the Minister still promise that he will continue to bring forward with the Minister of Finance, despite the manifest opposition of southern Europe and Japan, the motion that I tabled unanimously with the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u206	The Van Rooijen motion is known to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u207	But then I can assume that the government is sticking to the road map and that no further risk assessment is being made in that European deposit guarantee scheme until there is a deficit, and that is what Mr Van Rooijen is asking for is a weighting of government bonds?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u208	The weighing of government bonds, prudential weighing of government bonds, on bank balance sheets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u209	In Dutch!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u210	I know the phrases by heart even in English. We've talked about it so many times. But I really don't expect any progress there, especially now, but also at the end of this year, if there is any progress, I expect the best chance of having a midterm fiscally-neutral backstop on the Single Resolution Fund. It is likely that that will be the European...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u211	I thought we were speaking Dutch here, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u212	...it's ESM. And there are complex issues there too, because I remember that we even had telephone contact at the last European Council, because the Italians were making big problems at the time, even conclusions that could be read that would lead to... That didn't even say literally, but you could read three layers deep in it that you needed a system to restructure sovereign debt. There is no progress at all on that either. But that's with the Minister of Finance now, and if you've got any progress somewhere, it could be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u213	The second one is important, because until now we always had the condition that there will be a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism. Mr President, in Dutch: a mechanism whereby a state that has too many debts first writes off those debts before it is eligible for aid. Will that remain the Dutch condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u214	Yeah, but then it's about the way you do it. But that is really something I say to Mr Omtzigt. Please discuss this with Wobke Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance, because he is conducting these negotiations, or else I will go through them in the group of finance ministers. But collective action claws, single limp, then we go all the way into technology. I really suggest that Mr Omtzigt discuss this with the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u215	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u216	Mr President, I regularly discuss this with the Minister of Finance, in most euro groups. And yet I also ask the Prime Minister: is he convinced that we are not taking any further steps there, not even with the Single Resolution Fund? Because that was in our own agreements here, that when there's no way of writing off debt on states, we don't put that backstop in place. I'm asking the Prime Minister because...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u217	I just said it three times. So we're really asking about the familiar road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u218	Is the answer yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u219	Yes, but the point is: then Mr Omtzigt must be specific and then we will have a completely different debate, which he must have with the Minister of Finance. Namely: what is the technique behind sovereign debt restructuring mechanisms? There's still a whole world behind that. I haven't prepared for that for today, but we agreed: there has to be a way of debt write-off on sovereign debt. It needs to be restructured, as much as possible automatically, if you want to go to an SRM backstop at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u220	Finally, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u221	But we are convincing each other of something we have talked about a thousand times, which is not progressing in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u222	Finally, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u223	No, but the last sentence was clear and we are dealing with this technique, but the Prime Minister says here: there must be a debt write-off mechanism before the backstop goes to the ESM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u224	Before Mr Omtzigt becomes very happy: you can talk for hours about the way in which you set up such a debt write-off mechanism. That's what I'm telling him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u225	We're not gonna do that. I'm going to see Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u226	It's gonna take a lot of work, huh, to put up that euro a little bit. I asked a question about the European stabilisation mechanism. That should also be implemented by programmes. It will then become a kind of European Monetary Fund, which it certainly looks like. I think there is some consensus about this and the discussions are going on. Then it's not about decision-making, I understand that perfectly. But of course it is about exchange of views. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that, at the moment that is ahead and you talk about it further, this is the opportunity to say now: then we should also democratize it? Then it must also meet the accounting requirements of auditors for companies, which cover the whole of the Union, and then we are going to do something about the immunity of the people who work there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u227	None of that is on the agenda either, really. We're talking all ins blue hinein again. The coalition agreement states what we want as a coalition with the ESM. From that postulate, I run the negotiations. Wobke Hoekstra, the finance minister in particular, is doing this at the moment in the eurogroup. But there are no proposals at all on this point. We want to reform the ESM. I just explained how we want to do that. We want to strengthen that, too. Democratic control is regulated, because it is intergovernmental and as far as we are concerned it remains so. This means that control is simply a matter for the national parliaments. Clear agreements have been reached on the provision of information. It is already a permanent emergency fund and not a temporary emergency fund, as a successor to the temporary EFSF. We're not going to see any conclusions on that in the next few days. If there's a threat, we're gonna discuss it here first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u228	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u229	I know that no conclusions are drawn, but the exchange of views and a little chatting and chatting with Mr Draghi of the European Central Bank and with the President of the Eurogroup Centeno is worth something. Things are said there, too. I think it is very good that the Netherlands should say: if, indeed, it becomes permanent, aid fund, emergency fund, loan factory or whatever it is you want to call it, this is the time to democratize it. 'Cause we don't have a say in it right now. And now is the time, for example, to tackle this immunity. That's basically bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u230	It's intergovernmental. In fact, unanimity is needed for the granting of support programmes through the board of governors, that is the Finance Ministers. That goes through the national parliaments. We would like to keep it intergovernmental. Then I'll come to Saudi Arabia. That is not foreseen for this summit, but it may happen that we are going to talk about it in the margins. But I see Mr Omtzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u231	So do I, but if you answer this question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u232	Saudi Arabia will then be the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u233	My question is about Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u234	One thing about Italy, Mr. President. We have said a lot of things about it, but the Commission is now in the process of doing so. The first signs from the Commission are not such that we are going to choose a weak line. On the contrary, and I like it and I will support it. But that is all we are going to say tomorrow in the Eurogroup as far as I am concerned. I do not want to go through the process now under way by the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u235	It is true that the Commission is now taking a move, but will the Netherlands also make any preparations in the event that things go well in Italy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u236	I don't have that ready right now. I would really like to discuss that with the Minister of Finance. In my view, we always think about systemic risks, wherever they may come from, in the euro system. But I haven't prepared that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u237	Finally, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u238	I can therefore assume that the Dutch Government is considering one of the biggest systemic risks, namely the financial problems in Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u239	Yeah, we're thinking about that, but I don't have an answer right now in case that happens, and I'd rather not speculate about that either. Soon, the international press will say: Rutte expects Italy to have a systemic risk. And I don't expect that. So I'm not gonna speculate about that in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u240	Then I suggest you go to the questions about Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u241	One final question: does the Prime Minister not think that there is a systemic risk in Italy at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u242	Does Mr Omtzigt now think that it makes sense for me to speculate publicly that one of the largest EU Member States could possibly go ahead and then we should think through five or six steps in a scenario A, B or C? Surely we have no interest in speculating about this in public?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u243	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u244	Mr. Chairman. The media coverage of the Khashoggi case is very worrying. It's happening fast, by the way. We're on it. We want clarity on the fate of Khashoggi and Saudi Arabia must respond to that. This requires reliable and transparent research. We also support the initiative of the French, the Germans and the British. Minister Hoekstra has said that, because of the concern and uncertainties, it is not at present in the least reasonable that he should go. We are following the situation from hour to hour. Decisions on his participation are expected to be taken by the end of this week and possibly earlier. The same goes, of course, for the mission of Minister Kaag next month. Here too, we are doing it one step at a time. We insist on a credible investigation. I would like to make one final comment on this: the cabinet will send a supplementary letter to the Chamber on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u245	That was also agreed, because this subject was discussed extensively with Minister Kaag during oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u246	Yeah, and I think what I'm saying is in line with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u247	It has also been promised that a letter will be sent to the Chamber this week. So last Tuesday's discussion is not going to be repeated, Mr. Van Ojik, no matter how important the subject is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u248	Very good of you to keep me on this point, Mr President. My question concerns something the Prime Minister has just said about the agenda of the European Council. He said: it is not on the agenda of the European Council. If I'm right, there's always something like "current foreign policy issues" or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u249	No, there's no W.V.T.K. For the viewers: a little further on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u250	There's no W.V.T.K.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u251	No, but of course it could be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u252	It could be discussed. My question to the Prime Minister is: will he make sure that it is discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u253	No, I really think that is a matter for the General Affairs Council and the Foreign Affairs Council. This is supposed to be in all these places now. And when it comes to it, I will repeat this position there and support the British, the Germans and the French in their initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u254	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u255	I still have some final questions to answer. E-evidence was also the subject of a wide-ranging debate with the Chamber at the JHA Council. There, the Minister for Justice and Security Graperhaus said that we are in favour of the e-evidence proposal because the current system no longer works in this digital age. But guarantees are needed. That is why Minister Grapperhaus is using a notification procedure whereby the Dutch government is always informed when data is requested, and can also intervene if necessary when human rights or national interests are at stake. Last week's JHA Council supported this by a blocking minority. This comes back to the December JHA Council. There will also be a general consultation with the Chamber, I understand, prior to the JHA Council. I would also like to say this: let us take a closer look at this, because this is not a big issue in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u256	Were you done with your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u257	I have a few other small points. Do you want me to do that right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u258	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u259	Is the Article 7 procedure against Hungary coming to this European Council? No, it's in the General Affairs Council now. I agree with what Mr Van Ojik said about this. I think that's going well now. Are there any developments to report on the European Public Prosecutor's Office? No. The proposal has yet to be dealt with. In the short term, the Chamber will receive the BNC-fiche. I have just replied to the questions on the MFF to Mr Verhoeven, following a number of interruptions. Mrs Bijleveld's statement must be read figuratively. That's what she said herself. When Rinus Michels said "football is war," he didn't mean that literally either. Finally, Mr Verhoeven asked: Poland blocked the Ihbti Council conclusions and what did the Netherlands do? Indeed, Poland blocked last week in the JHA Council conclusions on the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights because of objections to that paragraph. This was unacceptable to the Netherlands and many other Member States. That is why the form of Presidency conclusions was chosen at the Dutch request. These are issued under the Presidency's own responsibility, but were actually supported by virtually all the Member States. In this way we have managed to keep up the important message about the rights of Ihbtis and we have not given in to the Polish pressure. I have answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u260	The fact that the judicial Council is discussing this regulation on dates that are requested and that we all think that, if it is done, it should be done under conditions is fine, but there is a compromise proposal from the Austrians on the table that does not secure it. And there is also a proposal on the table where they say: we are going to extend this E-evidence regulation with not only the retrieval of data but also real-life taps. We can at least say that until these discussions are at least concluded, will we not do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u261	But that is not before the European Council. It all comes back to the JHA Council. At the moment, the Netherlands has at least managed to help build a blocking minority along the lines I have just outlined. So that seems like a good first step to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u262	I have just missed the answers to my questions about fisheries and the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u263	I gave it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u264	Oh, I'll have to read them back. I apologize. But the Prime Minister was very quick to comment on his cooperation with Macron. I would like to ask him if he still wants to go into that. We follow the Prime Minister with great interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u265	I can see it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u266	...but we would like to know if he indicates to Macron that the Netherlands does not see room for a European budget for the euro area and for a European finance minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u267	I have addressed the questions on fisheries in detail. Given the time, I'm referring to that. But I think Mrs Van der Graaf will be satisfied with the answer, because we are pulling on the same side of the rope there. Macron? I think that is a bit like a party political question, because that is not about my role where I stand, but as the last chosen leader of the VVD. As a party, we are watching how we deal with the whole of the European party-political landscape. I cannot say too much about this from this role, because then the rest of the cabinet would think: what is he talking about? The fact that the Netherlands and France do not agree on everything is true, but it is true about a lot. I have few colleagues in the European Council with whom I have such extensive agreement on so many issues, whether it be international trade, the internal market, the balance between free and fair and open, migration, external borders and climate. That's where we're very close to the French. We also share many positions on the euro, but there are also a few small areas of discussion. However, that is something about the position of the Netherlands and France. Of course, I can't say that much about the position VVD-Macron.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u268	I understand. But then I understand the Prime Minister's words in such a way that he, as Prime Minister, keeps to the commitments we have here: no budget for the euro area and no European Minister for Finance. I understand his words in such a way that he is firmly guarding these lines as Prime Minister of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u269	If I am allowed to make one party political comment, I believe that on these issues Christian Union and VVD are very close together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u270	You can say something back, Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u271	The fact that VVD and ChristianUnion are close at that point is fine, but I would like to have confirmation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u272	The coalition agreement is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u273	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u274	Okay. I see you standing, Mr. Van Rooijen. Only if it's a question that hasn't been answered by the Prime Minister. Otherwise, we'll go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u275	The Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u276	Only if a question hasn't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u277	I had mentioned a number of examples, including the deposit guarantee scheme. I mentioned in particular the Minister for Finance and the euro budget, but that question has not been answered. Mrs Van der Graaf has done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u278	The coalition agreement is leading. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u279	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the second term of office and I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u280	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. I understand very well that this debate on something like Brexit, where every hour of situation and political topicality change, does not produce any final clarity. In the case of migration, I feel that we may have to look again at what is actually the Dutch commitment and what is the commitment of other Member States in the European Union. We have to ask ourselves whether what we want, that is, the arrangements for unloading and those controlled centres, is in line with the objective we all agree on, namely not people drowning in the Mediterranean, not uncontrolled and unorganised migration. The question of whether means and ends are compatible should really be discussed a little more fundamentally. I will be happy to take the initiative. With regard to Saudi Arabia, my last point, Mr President, I think it would be good if the Heads of Government also spoke about this, given the seriousness of the situation. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the journalist Jamal Khashoggi appears to have been murdered during his interrogation at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul;]] [[whereas human rights are widely violated in Saudi Arabia;]] [[Whereas the supply of arms to Saudi Arabia by several European countries is continuing;]] [[Whereas these weapons play a crucial role in the war in Yemen, where the population is seriously affected by Saudi bombings and where there is a threat of serious famine;]] [[calls on the Government to work at the European Summit to ensure that Member States stop supplying arms to Saudi Arabia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1368]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u281	I would like to make two comments, and I have two motions. I shall begin with the comments. Salzburg was an accident. I asked the Prime Minister, "We're not gonna have another accident, are we?" Can we agree that cocky behaviour or ego behaviour does not go beyond the interests of citizens, whether they live on the Irish island, in the United Kingdom or in the Member States of the Union? Let me ask you another question. We have just seen that the Spanish Government has abandoned diplomatic ties with Flanders. Now a conflict between Catalonia and Spain is not very nice within the Union, certainly not because the elected representatives of the people are being detained, but now that it has a Union dimension, I would like to know from the government what this means. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are serious concerns, including at EU level, about the disappearance and possible murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Arabia Consulate in Istanbul, Turkey;]] [[noting that the Minister of Finance is considering taking part in the Future Investment Initiative conference next week in the Saudi capital Riyadh;]] [[calls on the Minister not to participate in this conference,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the present European Regulation on the collection of stored online data, the E-evidence Regulation, enables a Member State to collect data from ordinary people from another Member State without judicial intervention;]] [[believes that the provision of data should always be the subject of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union;]] [[noting that service providers are not sufficiently capable of making this balance between fundamental rights and a court order from another Member State;]] [[Calls on the Government not to agree to a negotiating compromise that does not confer information and intervention rights on the competent authority in the Member State where the service provider or person in question is located;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose the extension of the proposal to the direct tap of people in other Member States, the real time interception,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1369]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1370]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u282	Mr. Chairman. In May of this year, Secretary of State Harbers signed on behalf of the Netherlands the Marrakesh Declaration, which promotes migration from Africa to Europe. In December of this year, the UN Migration Pact will be ready for signature. Several countries have already decided not to sign, for example because of the violation of sovereignty. The Netherlands, of course, intends to draw again at the cross, that's what we just hear. That's an incredibly bad idea. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an Intergovernmental Conference in Morocco is to be held on 10 and 11 December 2018 to adopt the Global Pact on Safe, orderly and regular Migration;]] [[Whereas the signing of this pact is not in the Dutch interest;]] [[calls on the Government not to sign this pact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1371]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u283	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. First of all, I would like to urge his colleagues to insist that there be a specific date for a point of no return when it comes to the Brexit. For all those involved, the definition "before the end of this year" is really insufficient. They and we need to know where they and we are. It is good to hear that we are working on a broad European Marshall Plan for Africa. My group awaits with interest the government's BNC sheet. 50PLUS and other political groups in this Chamber are deeply concerned about the way Saudi Arabia operates. That is why I co-signed Mr Van Ojik's motion. We also have concerns about the inability within the European Union to reach concrete workable agreements on migration policy. What the Prime Minister said about this makes them more concerned than less concerned. My group regrets that the Prime Minister is actually moving the comments on financial matters to December because no decisions are being taken this week. After all, we know that every conversation you have about this is part of the decision-making process. It is a slow process, one might say, especially when it comes to the risks that the sintering Klaa policy in Italy now entails for the whole of the euro. Then I find the Prime Minister's answers disappointing. Finally, Mr President. What will the Prime Minister say to his Italian colleague? The Italian budget runs counter to the EMU agreements in this respect. Please give me a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u284	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, who is replacing Mr Asscher, on behalf of the PvdA. I'm just saying that for those who don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions, starting with a motion against the race to the bottom for companies. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that a race to the bottom should be avoided in company tax rates;]] [[calls on the Government to call in Brussels for a European minimum corporate tax rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1372]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u286	By myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u287	Okay, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u288	Everyone is cordially invited to vote in favour of the motion. Mr. Chairman. My second motion concerns the disappearance and suspected murder of Saudi journalist Khashoggi. Just published The Wall Street Journal even more gruesome details than we've heard so far. That is why I am tabling this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the disappearance and suspected murder of Saudi journalist Khashoggi cannot remain without consequences;]] [[Considering that a trade mission from Minister Kaag to Saudi Arabia will take place from 18 to 21 November;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone all visits and trade missions until there is clarity about Saudi Arabia's involvement in the disappearance and suspected murder of Khashoggi,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1373]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u289	Yes, I'm on the list before Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u290	Let's see. You are absolutely right, but Mr Bishop was on the list. This was an old list of speakers. You also spoke in the first term. My bad. Go ahead, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u291	I was thinking, maybe I've been so ugly in the interrupting microphone that I don't like anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u292	No, no, that's not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u293	I didn't think so, actually. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I have, of course, tried to put some words in his mouth about the UN migration pact. I also understood that this was not discussed here, so we are going to follow the parliamentary route to see if we can discuss it again. That's our challenge. For the rest, I wish the Prime Minister every success in defending Dutch interests, including in the context of Brexit. I have every confidence in that. I, as an engineer, would like to ask the historian, Rutte, this is a compliment to act as a bridge builder. Above all, keep the bridge between us over the United Kingdom. I wish him every success in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u294	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then go to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u295	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the previous words. I hope that this bridge stays intact, but also that the Netherlands is well prepared in case that bridge is going to get a bit shaky, because that will have extraordinary consequences for the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. A second topic was the disappearance of Mr Khashoggi. I have the next motion for that. I commend the government for signing that declaration together with the other major countries in the European Union, but I would very much like to congratulate the European Union, either at this European summit or at another ISD, for doing so together with 27 countries and calling for an independent investigation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of great importance for international relations that complete clarity be provided on the events, motives and those responsible for the disappearance and possible murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Arabia consulate in Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government to present a proposal for a joint EU declaration at the forthcoming European Summit to establish an independent and in-depth investigation into the disappearance of Mr Jamal Khashoggi,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1374]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u296	Mr. Chairman. I understand the Prime Minister's reluctance to talk about certain problems in Italy. That's what's good for him, too. However, we as the House of Representatives do have a responsibility. It is to ensure that the Dutch budget is not charged with rescue operations when this is not necessary. Therefore, an encouragement in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Italy has failed to comply with all the financial rules;]] [[Whereas there is at least an increase in financial risks in Italy at present, inter alia through an irresponsible budget of the Italian Government, the larger deficit and sharply rising interest rates;]] [[points out that there can be no further risk-sharing in the Banking Union, such as risk-sharing through a deposit guarantee scheme, without strict requirements for further risk reduction, which, of course, also applies to Italy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1375]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u297	Mr President, thank you. I would like to make a few brief comments. Starting with the Brexit. It is good if the cabinet encourages companies to prepare for the Brexit now that this is not done to a sufficient extent. It may also be a matter we should share with the relevant Secretary of State in the Cabinet. It is good that the Prime Minister continues to insist on humanitarian camps with his Greek colleague. Then there is the UN migration pact, which Mrs Maeijer asked about. It has already been said that this is not legally binding. It's okay to work together to tackle immigration. So my group has no objection to that. I understood yesterday from the scheme that there are all kinds of times to exchange that with the relevant Secretary of State. Like Mr Stoffer, I wish the Prime Minister success in Brussels in defending our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u298	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u299	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the answers to all our questions, including the very specific legal questions we have asked about the Brexit. It's not just something we're doing. Sometimes it is necessary to talk about what if scenarios. That's what we did. I would point out once again that the Christian Union considers it important that relations with the United Kingdom should be kept as well as possible and that a soft Brexit should be our preferred option, also in order to maintain a good long-term relationship with the United Kingdom. That is in the interests of the Netherlands. We must be well prepared for all scenarios, because the consequences are great. We should not think lightly about that. The European Parliament must agree to the approval of the Convention, but also 20 of the 27 Member States of the European Union. We will see that again, because I understand the Prime Minister's message very well in the first term. The capitals must also give their opinion on this, and that is something that we, as a parliament, must have a view on. I wish the Prime Minister good consultation and great success in promoting the Dutch interest as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u300	Thank you, Mrs Van der Gaag. Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u301	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I don't have any motions. I will support some of them. Good motions have been tabled. Thank you for the Prime Minister's explanation of the field of force with regard to the Chequer Plan, the EU's basic principles, whether or not to find a solution, the way that goes, time and time pressure, and his cautious hope. I will not interpret it in such a way that I have to read back in the Dutch press that the Prime Minister has said all kinds of things, but he still dares to expect us to get out. I am pleased that I have once again had the opportunity to explain more clearly the position of D66 on the MFF and also our position on positions. It's good that even if you have a point of view, you know that you can deal with it in a certain way. Then it's about e-evidence. Mrs Leijten, you are a little lower in your seat, but you had asked me a very difficult question. This is a European detention and delivery order whereby a judicial authority in one Member State can instruct a service provider to collect data from a particular person in another Member State. In short, D66 is critical of this proposal. There are, of course, a number of dangerous situations. An investigative service in Poland could say: we are going to instruct the service provider in Poland to collect certain dates from Dutch citizens. Perhaps even as an additional possibility, real-time reception could be introduced, Mrs Leijten said. We are critical of that. On substantive grounds, I have a positive basic position on your motion. We need to look at whether we are not blocking the negotiating position of the cabinet in a way that does not allow us to get anything good out of this. Mrs Leijten always has a little less attention to this point. In substance, I am a long way on the same lines as Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u302	Leave Mrs Leijten alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u303	But the process is also important. I shall try to leave Mrs Leijten alone for the rest of the week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u304	Too late. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u305	I think it is very good that we agree once because this really goes very far. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if Mr Verhoeven wanted to co-sign. It is not my intention to undermine our negotiating position, but it is my intention to set a limit. We do not deal with the privacy of Dutch residents, but, as far as I am concerned, we do not deal with those of Hungary or Portugal. We should not be doing this in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u306	With that co-signing, I'm gonna put myself back in jail. Then I cannot say to the group: let us talk about this. We are going to talk very seriously about it and we are going to vote on it on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u307	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u308	But Mrs Leijten is right. There is a frontier where privacy and security are at some point in time conflicting. Then you'll have to weigh it up. It is not desirable for all kinds of large data mountains to be poured out about our citizens through all kinds of questions from certain countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u309	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u310	But a judge has to give permission, and it can't all just happen. That is the way it is suggested, but that is not, of course, the issue. D66 would never allow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u311	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u312	Madam President. I would like to table two motions and put them to the vote. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet intends to sign the Global Compact for Migration in Marakkech;]] [[Whereas this could have a major impact on our control of immigration and trigger a new wave of mass immigration from Africa and the Middle East;]] [[whereas Hungary and the United States have indicated that this migration pact will not sign for this reason;]] [[whereas Poland, Austria and Denmark have also expressed serious concerns and are unlikely to sign the Pact;]] [[calls on the government not to sign the Global Compact for Migration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1376]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u313	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Prime Minister indicated that the number of immigrants who came to the Netherlands in 2015 was "untenable';]] [[whereas the Netherlands must implement a sustainable immigration policy;]] [[calls on the government to concreteise how many immigrants per year it considers 'tenable',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1377]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u315	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u316	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u317	The motion procedure also brings me to a few questions that have been asked. The first motion, in part No. 1368, I advise. The Netherlands is already very restrictive with regard to Saudi Arabia. We are the most restrictive within the European Union. We also do this in accordance with the 2016 Servaes motion. It is a policy that we call on other EU Member States to also be very critical of arms exports, in line with the common position. That's what we need to approach case-by-case. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 1368. Moreover, if this motion were to be adopted, I would not be able to say that I would add anything to the agenda of the European Council. The same goes for another motion. That's not how it works. Only the President of the European Council is dealing with that agenda, so that is not possible. But if it is adopted, then we will have to find other ways to implement it or not. Then the motion to part No. 1369. I suggest you hold that motion. We are currently consulting with the partners. Next Friday's the letter. So I'd like to ask you to hold that motion. If she is put to the vote, I must dissuade her, because it is now immeasurable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u318	The Minister of Finance has promised us another letter. I am quite prepared to hold the motion until we have received that letter, but that means that the letter must come before the vote tomorrow. Because we will of course be with recess next week and otherwise we will not be able to make a ruling. Can I make that appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u319	I can't agree to that. I can always pass on this part of the short-term report to my colleague in the finance department.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u320	You know what I'm doing, Mr. Chairman? I shall hold the motion until tomorrow's votes. Then we will give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to react before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u321	I'm not going to comment on that for a moment, because I just can't judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u322	At the request of Mrs Leijten, I propose her motion (21501-20, No. 1369). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u323	The motion in part No. 1370 is really untimely. There is talk of ongoing negotiations. The Chamber is discussing this in detail, including in the relevant general consultation with the Government. I think the Netherlands is really working on achieving good results. I have already mentioned the blocking minority that Grapperhaus, the Minister of Justice and Security, has managed to achieve. Nor is it on the agenda of this European Council. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 1370. The motion in part No. I do not recommend referring to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 1372, on a minimum corporate tax rate. It is not on the agenda of this European Council. There are complex negotiations under way in the Ecofin framework. I would suggest that the applicant discuss this with the Minister of Finance in the relevant general consultation. So now I advise against the motion in part No. 1372. The motion in part No. 1373 actually goes back to Madame's earlier motion... Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u324	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u325	Yes, Mrs. Leijten, excuse me. The SP motion. I was also looking for which party it was. Of course, I know that if it's the SP, it's always Mrs. Leijten. The motion in part No. 1373 I therefore advise against. Again, we wait for the letter first. Then there will undoubtedly be a debate. There is also more time for this, because this is not foreseen just before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u326	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u327	At the request of Mrs Ploumen, I propose her motion (21501-20, No. 1373). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u328	Also for the motion in part No. 1374 again is that I cannot put things on the agenda of the European Council. If the motion were adopted, the Dutch Government would advocate it at European level. But I can't promise here that we'll do this in the next few days, because I'm not going over it. But if it comes up in the next few days, I will, of course, argue it there. If it doesn't come up in the next few days, we'll find other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u329	What's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u330	Then it's judgment room. At the motion in part No. 1375 I'd like to ask for Italy to be demolished. If Italy is out of the motion, I can live with the motion, because this is also the government's position. But I do not think it is chic to give a motion for a resolution to the Chamber in which one government is addressed, especially since there is currently a discussion between the Italian Government and the Commission. I still owe Mr Van Rooijen an answer to his second-term question: of course, the Netherlands will tell Italy that we expect it to conduct the dialogue well with the Commission and that we support the Commission in its keen judgment. However, I find it difficult to give a motion for a resolution as a leader of the government to the Chamber in which the Italian Government is addressed. I therefore propose to remove those two references to Italy. It doesn't make the motion any worse. Then it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u331	What if it stays in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u332	Then I must dissuade them, because I do not want to be listed as the one who recommends a motion in which another government is dealt with. Then I want the motions on pieces Nos. 1376 and 1377
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u333	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-3.u334	We shall be voting on the motions tabled this afternoon. I thank the Prime Minister.
