ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are now going to look at the 30-member debate on tightening up the criteria for disability benefits. A warm word of welcome to the Minister, who has received a chocolate from us. We have eight participants on the side of the Chamber. Everyone has three minutes' speaking time. The first speaker is Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the government's plans with regard to disability benefits. The proposal is to increase access to this facility considerably, so that as much as EUR 250 million can be saved. An ice-cold discount on the safety net for people who, for whatever reason, can no longer work as before. The Minister is a bit like a miracle doctor, because with his proposal almost 10% of the people who are now fully disabled will suddenly be declared fit for work. The new Lourdes is in The Hague: sick and disabled stand up cheerfully from their sickbed or wheelchair, at least on paper. In reality, the broken back of the construction worker will certainly not have healed. The resistance is therefore great. Trade unions, FNV, CNV and VCP find it unsellable to cut back on the safety net that employees have to protect. If you look through the technical story of these changes, it simply turns out what it is: an ordinary cut at the expense of vulnerable people. Thus the unions. Does the Minister dare to acknowledge that this is the case? And what about the Minister's commitment to come forward with an outline of the plans this spring? We haven't received anything yet. May I conclude that the plan has disappeared quietly in the trash can? I think that's excellent. As with the pay dispensation for the disabled, it is an ill-thought-out plan, without support. If the minister doesn't do it himself, I'll table a motion to withdraw the plan. In the proposal, an invalid on paper will only have to be able to perform one more function in order to get rid of his WIA benefit. If you can look after a bike, you are not disabled, wrote Trouw. But this is paper again. In reality, a job for this group is not easy to find. For example, people who had bitter bad luck during their career are pushed hard towards welfare or severely reduced on their benefits. But, yes, 250 million has to be cut, because someone has to pay for the abolition of the dividend tax. Step by step, social security is being undermined. Read the article of Ingrid Weel in Trouw of 8 February: if politics continues this way, there will be no distinction between WIA and assistance. And think of the people with the heavy professions: the construction workers, the street makers, they have to work longer and longer, sometimes until they literally fall down. And when that happens, this minister takes away their WIA benefit for which they have paid contributions for years. A single poverty in welfare after decades of hard work. Smells like thanks. If the government wants to encourage more people to work, it is better to focus on the current people in disability. Take the bureaucracy, make sure that there is better guidance, as well as adaptation of the workplace. This is much stronger than cutting down new cases on their benefits or dumping them into welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Becoming wholly or partially disabled is an incredibly profound event. Something happened to you, an accident, or you got sick, so you can't work or part of it. And that's not nothing, of course, because work is part of their identity for a lot of people and work also provides structure and social contacts. Fortunately, we have arranged it in the Netherlands in such a way that part of your income is compensated. But first you have to go through an extremely complicated system. Kafka's nothing. Friday I was working with my colleague Wiersma at UWV, and I have to admit that I was dizzy when I saw all the different arrangements: IVA, LGU, LAU, VVU, it was hard to follow. You flow like a case from one scheme to another, and in the meantime you are judged by what you can do. And if you do anything less than you could, you could just get in trouble. Mr. Chairman. The system of disability benefits contains a variety of financial incentives to ensure that people return to work. So are the proposals we are discussing today: the adjustment of the estimation decision and the introduction of the income requirement for the highest category of incapacity for work. I'm gonna try to point that out in plain human language. The first proposal means that if someone is going to see what kind of work he could still do, he can assume only one suitable function. The second proposal means that if you are almost completely disabled, but could still do something, you should actually do so, because otherwise you will be cut off on your benefit. If that is real, I ask the Minister. Is there even work for this group of very vulnerable people? Mr. Chairman. It seems to me, above all, very technocratic. If I am being very honest, I do not believe that these measures actually provide an incentive to work. I have the impression, like the SP, that it is essentially a question of austerity, a further reduction in our social security system. I would very much like to hear the Minister's response to this. Why do we even want this? What really needs to be done is this. There's hardly any support for people to actually get them to work. Employers are still very reluctant to help people with disabilities to get to work. How is the Minister going to make sure these jobs are real?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	Right to the second. I call Mrs Van Brenk from the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. The UWV has two faces. On the one hand, there is the benefit factory, which is easily fooled by Poland, which wants a long paid holiday. On the other hand, there are sick people, vulnerable people, who are crushed by the same benefit factory, who are being re-approved and although they still have the same condition, then receive a lower benefit and are therefore in serious financial difficulties. According to which standards, by which doctors or any other person re-examination takes place, often remains shadowy. What is the Minister going to do to turn this double face back into a targeted and client-oriented organization? How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. After austerity in 2002 and 2006, the criteria for incapacity for work in 2019 are again tightened by this cabinet. That really is not an activating adjustment of a possible too generous social security from the end of the last century, but according to 50PLUS a direct impairment of the basic protection of people who have not chosen to be ill. If this continues, there will indeed be little or no distinction between the WIA and the assistance. Is that the purpose of this cabinet? We are opposed to further tightening up of the criteria. Actual incapacity for work is not driven away by standards and criteria. Don't go down the path of austerity at the expense of the vulnerable. Do not throw people out of their humble safety net, but invest more in guiding part of the disabled to work, for example through a much more targeted approach by the 35-minner group, which is out of the question. Mr. Chairman. But if this is going to happen, we hope not, but we see that there is a majority in this Chamber, and yet a majority wants the estimation decision to be tightened, do it with the whole field: with social partners, with client and patient organisations. Is the Minister going to bail that out? Is he going to ensure complete transparency of the process, including to the Chamber? I have a number of other questions for the Minister. What about the number of well-equipped medical examiners? We hear stories about inspections by lazy doctors. Do these knock? What about taking people seriously who object? How do people get their rights? How does the Minister intend to promote the proper functioning of the UWV? Does the Minister see the same problems as 50PLUS? Does he also hear poignant stories of individuals who are the victims of this powerful agency? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. A car accident or a cerebral infarction could happen to all of us. Unfortunately, it's something that belongs to life. Fortunately, we have a decent system in the Netherlands. At the moment you become ill, we first catch you through the employer and then through a nice system of collective insurance. This is what we do in the Netherlands, and that is nothing more than a question of civilisation. We're proud of that. The main question of this debate is: how civilised is this cabinet? How civilized is this minister? Because hidden away in the coalition agreement and in the budget there is a kind of technocratic and bureaucratic measure, which creates all kinds of technical terms, but in fact it is a 250 million cut on future sick people, on vulnerable people. We really shouldn't put that away, we should acknowledge that. At this time, when things are going well economically, I think it is an antisocial plan. We have seen before how this cabinet deals with people with disabilities. That was the pay dispensation. Fortunately, we have all said that there was no basis for this in these economically good times; in a civilised country we should not do so. As far as I am concerned, this plan is even more so. We must be careful about dealing with sick people, and we absolutely must not cut back on them. That's a really antisocial plan. So the main question of this debate is: is the Minister prepared to delete this cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	First of all, I would like to ask Mr Van Dijk, whom I have come to know in recent months as someone who conducts the debate on substance, if he recognizes himself in the style he uses in the debate by asking the Minister if he is civilized. At least I'm not doing that. Next, we are talking about measures. Part of these measures, as envisaged by the Cabinet, is the fact that someone with a high income is treated differently than someone with a low income when assessing whether they could still work. Isn't that something Mr Van Dijk thinks should be looked at? In the current system, someone with a high income is simply treated differently from, for example, the construction worker mentioned earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	First, the question of civilization. I measure the cabinet according to his plans that I find civilized or not. I do not think the way we deal with vulnerable people is civilized. This was the case for people with disabilities: cutting back on them, while this is not necessary in these times, I do not think that is civilised. How we deal with sick people in this country: if we cut back on them in these times, I do not think that is civilised. It's that hard for me. The second point is more about the system. We have asked questions about this ourselves. We asked about the difference in the way people with a higher income are treated and seen in the benefit, compared to the function groups, and people with a low income. I myself have questions about this, because there seems to be some kind of inequality in it. But that is different from saying in advance in the coalition agreement that we are going to treat the group 80%-100% differently by means of a stricter inspection, while those people are not less ill. We're gonna treat them differently on paper, but the reality is they're sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for his nuance of the content of the second part of his reply. But we are in a house where today's debate is "fuck off!" is said to each other. That is why I want him to make a distinction between plans, which he may have very sharp judgments on, and addressing the Minister with the question of whether he is civilized. I think that is a big difference and I think, because of the appreciation I have for the way in which Mr Van Dijk is usually debating, that he should make that difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	I always play on the content and never on the man. I don't think this plan is civilized. I think we shouldn't do this in these times, and we should never do it. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. So my question to this minister and this cabinet is: are they prepared to look at alternatives? Are they prepared not to hit people through their benefit.... actually hit them with a stick... but above all to see how we can better guide people and adjust the workplace? Because those are measures that we know are helping. In recent years, we have also made a number of agreements on this subject through the social agreement. Employers and companies indicate that we really help people if we take preventive measures, better guide people and allow the UWV to offer a more personal approach. You should not start on the other side, by hitting people and then saying: we hope that you get to work well, otherwise we unfortunately have to cut you off on your benefit. Then I really think the cabinet is starting on the wrong side. That is also my question to this Minister: is he aware of the measures taken since the social agreement? Because different measures have been taken to help. You will not immediately see them in the books, but I am convinced that if we guide people better, there will also be savings in the longer term, because there will be fewer people on benefit and more people can happily get back to work. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the trade union movement. Prime Minister Rutte said here a few weeks ago: we are talking to social partners; we have reached out to the opposition and we are talking to social partners. We are told by a letter from the trade union movement: we are not spoken to at all; we are only spoken to employers. Who's right here? I'd like to hear that from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you. Then Mr De Jong of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr President, thank you very much. This cabinet is about to make it harder to get disability benefits. People who are ill get approved earlier and just have to find their way on the labour market. What the hell is this cabinet doing? What the hell is going on? Why does this cabinet have the purpose of making it very difficult for people? Surely the people we are talking about today are not disabled for nothing? They're not for fun, are they? If they could just work and be without benefits, wouldn't they just do that? What makes you think this isn't the case? Where does this mistrust come from? Why does this cabinet put people with disabilities in the corner like that? Because that's what you do when you put a tough cut on this vulnerable group's plate. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it would be nice if the influx to the WIA could be limited, but there would have to be jobs. And we see time and time again, debate after debate, that it is very difficult to get this group of people to work, no matter how much they would like it to be. Of course, you're not gonna cut the paycheck on these people's wallet, when it's hard for them to make ends meet. Then why is this cabinet doing this? Mr. Chairman. What bothers me is the ease with which this cabinet can throw a cut in the air, and then wait months and months for it to work out. It causes unrest, unrest again among a vulnerable group of people. That's not how you deal with these people. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I have a number of questions with regard to this proposal, or at least with regard to the plans. What will be the consequences of the cabinet plans on the benefits and rights of people with disabilities? How much euros are these people going to lose? How many people who would now receive a WIA benefit will soon end up with the assistance measures? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. This plan needs to be removed; it's as simple as that. If you want to raise money, pick it up from the hundreds of millions of euros for which social security fraud is committed and which are not recovered, as we have seen so painfully clear in recent weeks. And stay away from the rights of people with disabilities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. Then Mr Heerma of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. Mr Smeulders began his term by explaining how far it is when you become temporarily or permanently, partially or completely disabled. I think that's right. So we are also talking about an arrangement which we all hope we will never have to deal with. The government agreement proposes a number of adjustments on conditions relating to incapacity for work. In addition, additional funds are being allocated to personal guidance and training for people, and thresholds are being removed for people to dare to get to work. They are proposals that look at what people can do and try to avoid unnecessary people being sidelined in a coherent way. Mr Smeulders is right in saying that work is very important for people. Focusing on what people can and seeing if they can work is therefore very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	Work is incredibly important, including for this group of people. Very often these people want to work very much, but it is very often very difficult for these people to find work. How many jobs are created, created, or do people with disabilities get through this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	Work is indeed very important for people. And yes, there are also barriers for people to get to work. Part of this can be cyclical. In recent years, there have been no jobs for many people. However, we are now in a business environment in which there are many sectors where there are very few and there are jobs. Where people sometimes receive benefits, while people with exactly the same disability are stimulated to work. There are people who feel barriers to getting started. For that there are also adjustments to the coalition agreement. Sometimes there is not enough guidance and training. For this there are measures in the coalition agreement, which remove barriers to work in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	Boy, that's a long answer, but I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	That's not gonna happen. This proposal does not create jobs. In fact, it's just a tough cut of EUR 250 million for a very vulnerable group. Anyway, I'm gonna try one more time anyway. Can the CDA Group put forward here how many jobs are being created with the proposals before us now, in other words with regard to the WIA adjustment, for people with disabilities who would very much like to get to work themselves? Because that's always suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	When Mr De Jong speaks with emphasis about "creating jobs," he uses terminology that the previous minister always liked to use in job plans. My point is that the government cannot create jobs. In my opinion, Mr De Jong has always been critical of this type of job plan. We can create the right conditions. Then it still applies, and that's why my answer was long, that I think you should be honest about opportunities that people have. They are also cyclically and sectorally determined. The sum of the measures I mentioned, I have payment of wages in the event of illness, which the Cabinet is also working on, then not even mentioned............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	When it comes to being honest: the CDA Group has just started itself with the fact that it is important that people get a job. Work is incredibly important. So this proposal, this cold cut of EUR 250 million, is constantly being exposed to work. But that's not happening at all. It's a cutback. Then why don't you just open up with the honest story: we had to have money; we had to scrape money and we have chosen to go after the most vulnerable group that we have found, because it is not going to be on the Malieveld and because it is not going to say "hoo, to here and no further" at the same time here in the House of Representatives. Why don't you just say that honestly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	First of all, because it's not true. I repeat my answer: the combination of the various measures contained in the coalition agreement, from pay payments to additional guidance, extra commitment to training, the removal of the threshold that there will be a review of your earning capacity within five years and the 80/100 discussion on the WGA, which I have already asked Mr Van Dijk, will ensure that people are not unnecessarily on the margins. So I do not recognize myself in the image that Mr De Jong is throwing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	I'm gonna try, too, 'cause maybe we're gonna get together after all. Much has been done in recent years on prevention and guidance, because we know that this is actually the best way to help people. They do want to work; they want to work, as far as that goes. That's the way. So you shouldn't start on the other side by saying: there's gonna be a punishment anyway and we hope you're gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	With regard to Mr Van Dijk's first point: whether there is sufficient guidance and whether there are too many thresholds for people, we have had discussions with each other in recent years. Honor who deserves credit: Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has always been very vocal about it. That is why we also made agreements in the coalition agreement on this point. This is about the education, the experiments and the extra money for personal guidance, also for this group, and that is also about removing that threshold. So that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	All this is done, so on the other hand, but the effect is still that some 1,300 people are affected in their income per year, because I also see that tightening up the WIA assessment decision has had an effect on the assistance; that is simply stated correctly. The amount goes up by millions. This indicates that this measure means that more than 1,000 people will receive assistance. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	These measures are designed in conjunction with the payment of wages so that people do not be sidelined unnecessarily. This means that on the one hand we give people who can work more incentive to work. It also means that we are looking at the distinction between people who had a very high earning ability, let's say: a pilot and, for example, the construction worker. Mr Van Dijk cannot entirely deny that he did so just now in this place, and that there are things in the system at that point that we have to look critically at. But also the additional guidance, additional training and the removal of the threshold are measures which, in conjunction with the payment of wages, ensure that people do not be sidelined unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	Yes, I conclude by concluding that despite all sorts of things that Mr Heerma says should help, the influx of assistance is growing. Is that true or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u31	In models there are always effects and they will also vary cyclically. I note that we also have a tight labour market and I agree with Mr Smeulders that a lot of people want to work but do not see the opportunities or experience a very high risk if they do. These are all elements that we are tackling here. I know that the PvdA in its election programme also had measures on the payment of wages. They are not entirely separate from what the government said at the APB. I'll get to the trade union letter later. I hope that there is still a willingness to talk and I hope that Mr Van Dijk will also be prepared to take a critical look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u32	I'll do the interruptions in threes. I note, however, that I have to finish this debate at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u33	Yeah, but I'm also answering questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u34	That is a credit to you, but you could also consider asking the Minister a little more later, otherwise your time will really be up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u35	I was almost there in my text, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u36	I'd like to hear from the CDA. The CDA doesn't want to leave anyone on the sidelines, but how does the CDA explain that people who are being re-approved and who have to work for half of them but who don't get a job fall back on their income? How does the CDA explain that to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u37	This is already the case in the system. That's one reason I was just talking about the WGA 80-100. For that now, if you have a very high income, this does not happen or less quickly. If you have a modal income, it happens faster. So what Mrs Van Brenk calls is already in the system. Part of the cabinet plans is just to see if it is reasonable that we should have that incentive for people who are construction workers, for example, but not for people who are pilots but have the same earning capacity. There's nothing wrong with that. So that's already in the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u38	I understand that we need to eliminate inequalities as much as possible, but I see that these proposals are now making a cut at the expense of a lot of people who simply need that money. You believe that they are all coming to work, but you have just heard from Mr Van Dijk, and we also see that more than 10% in income is going to decline. That's a lot, because it's already a very low income. How does the CDA explain that, especially in relation to a Christian background?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u39	I always find that very special. I'll leave that to Mrs. Van Brenk. We're all here from our own positions to see what we think is helping. Just as I asked Mr Van Dijk to distinguish between the person and the content, I would also ask Mrs Van Brenk. I think it's important to look at what people can do and not let people stand aside unnecessarily. In the coalition agreement, matters have been agreed that the cabinet is currently working on. The combination of the proposals of pay-as-you-go payments to the adjustments of the WIA, including for WGA 80%-100%, the extra money for training, the extra money for guidance and also the removal of the threshold, is aimed at ensuring that people who could work are not wrongly sidelined. I think that's very explainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u40	It is clear that this is absolutely not a choice of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u41	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u42	We would very much like these people to have more rather than less security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u43	Fine. You can continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u44	The Minister wrote in his letter that he would like to talk to social partners and field parties to come up with a proposal to get as much support as possible in society. It also established a link with the payment of wages in the event of illness that I had not seen before. In my view, the Prime Minister stressed this once again in an interruption debate with Mr Asscher of the PvdA during the General Political Reviews of two weeks ago. I was going to ask the Minister in this debate to update the state of the discussion. But to my surprise, the day before yesterday we received a letter from the trade unions in which they indicated that the consultation was formally concluded. They also indicate that the Minister is only bilaterally in consultation with employers. My first question is, is this true? I must say that I find this a rather messy picture of a process on two such important issues, namely payment of wages in the event of illness and our system of incapacity for work. I would like an explanation and an explanation from the Minister of this process. I also want to know what he intends to do. Because on the one hand, I think he has a responsibility to deal with this. On the other hand, I do not think that trade unions should throw in the towel too easily. I had that feeling with this letter. That is why I would like to receive a statement from the Minister on the process. What does he want to do in the next few days? I think there is a joint responsibility to look at these two issues. So I would like to have an explanation of this and also the timetable for this, because we cannot stand here again in a year's time with the question of how things stand. I think Mr De Jong was right to be very critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u45	Was that your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr. Heerma just did a nice apple. He talked about fair politics, fair politics, style figures, and so on. Perhaps it would be nice if he recognised that this is a difficult measure, that EUR 250 million has been entered and that this cut must now be completed. How hard is this plan for the CDA? 'Cause there's not that much support for it. Is this in marble chiseled or can we talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u48	There are two elements to Mr Van Dijk's question. The first is the style figure. What I really think is very important is that opposition parties have the right and also the task of looking very critically at the plans of a cabinet. That's all right with you. But I think that a distinction should be made between the content and the person. That's what my interruption was about. We also have the right to differ. If you look at the total of the cabinet's plans, I think the focus is on what people can do, so that we don't allow people to stand aside unnecessarily long. I think that's very vindictive. Then there is the answer to the second part of the question. If I thought that everything was a given, and I would say 'this is how it is' in general, I would have said here: Minister, I want a proposal next week. But I told the minister that I think he should sit down with the polder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u49	That last one sounds good, because you're saying it wasn't chiseled in marble. As you rightly said, the Minister said: I would like to create a basis for this plan with the social partners. Mr Heerma himself said that there is no such support; those unions have been cut off. They don't participate in this meeting anymore because they don't think it's such a good plan. How hard is that condition for the CDA to say, "Yes, I do want there to be support"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u50	First of all, I believe in the combination of the measures contained in the coalition agreement, precisely to see if we can get people to work. That's what it starts with. Secondly, Mr Van Dijk cannot be surprised at the fact that I believe that there should be consultation with the polder, not just on this but on many other areas, because the coalition agreement is full of that outstretched hand. On the process and whether or not there is a basis to talk at all, I indicated in my story that I was somewhat surprised by the letter we received from the unions. Then I ask the Minister about his role in this, what he is going to do about this and whether the suggestion that he will only talk to employers is correct, because that is not the intention either. But I also think that the trade unions should be prepared to sit down and talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u51	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u52	All clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u53	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u54	But is Mr Heerma so honest to say that if there is no basis for this at all, then it would be fair to reconsider this measure? After all, it was an important condition that it should be borne by society. But there's no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u55	Obviously. Short, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u56	I believe that we should take measures to ensure that people do not come down the line unnecessarily. That's the plan. I believe that we, as a coalition, and this minister, have a responsibility to develop these measures. I also think it is important that this is discussed with the polder, but it is against the background of the starting point that measures need to be taken that do not unnecessarily leave people on the margins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u57	I thought I'd wait till the end, until the moment that there might be a real reason why the CDA wants this. I do not really hear it, because at the end Mr Heerma also repeats a few times: we do not want people to be sidelined unnecessarily long. Does Mr Heerma recognise that this measure is likely to make people who are on the sidelines less well? Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u58	I shall have to keep my own rhetorical gifts under review if you have not heard that in my speech. I will see that as a personal criticism. I myself believe that I have indeed indicated it, and that the answer to your question is therefore no. There is a combination of measures from the government agreement of the cabinet, which they are working on, which are about pay-through payments, which are about adjustments, for example about the WGA 80-100, which are about extra guidance, which are about extra training and about removing unnecessary thresholds to get to work. And I do see measures in this context in conjunction with the aim of not letting people stand aside unnecessarily and be able to get to work. And in the story of Mr Smeulders he himself indicated how important that is for people. He started that very nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u59	I have a bit of a déjà vu for a few weeks ago. Then we were standing here, about a coalition/government plan to cut the rent surcharge. And then it was also said: "This plan may not be very nice, but it comes in a total package. Look at the purchasing power cards and you will see that we are indeed good for that vulnerable target group." All kinds of things are being brought in, but is Mr Heerma simply willing to acknowledge that this is a cut on future vulnerable people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u60	I find it very difficult to establish a link with a debate in which Mr Smeulders was present and I am not. But if you put the time horizon back a little bit, we have also had a lot of debates here in the past in which part of the Chamber said it was a cut-back and another part of the Chamber said we should put the emphasis on what people can do and make sure that they don't get sidelined unnecessarily. My party has usually been on that side of the discussion. I'm still standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u61	The very last question. So Mr Heerma is not saying that this is a cut-back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr Heerma says that there are measures in the coalition agreement which should lead to people not being sidelined unnecessarily. Some of these measures will provide money in the long term. Some of the measures cost money in the long term. But the goal is as I indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u63	Very good. We are going to listen to Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has indeed proposed a number of measures on the whole area of disability and illness. That's also because there's work to be done. Mr Smeulders was right to say that the idea that you become ill for a long time, can no longer work, can only work part of it or can no longer work in the profession that you do with such pleasure is extremely far-reaching. At the same time, we see a very sharp increase in the use of the WIA and disability schemes. I think that's a problem. That is a problem for my group. You will have to look not only at the benefits conditions, but also at whether we are doing enough to help people stay in work. Mr Van Dijk rightly put a great deal of emphasis on prevention. I think there's still a lot to win there. I refer to measures as a no-risk for people with a chronic disease, for which I have worked hard with many colleagues in the past. We also need to see how we can ensure that we are going to provide much better guidance and much more help for disabled people. This is also the subject of the coalition agreement. I think that too is very important. We must help them to train for courses that they can still do so that they can get to work. Because that's what almost everyone wants who can still work a bit: they want to get to work. We're not getting enough of that. That's what I'm saying after everyone who was critical about that. We still have a big job to do there. Very important: if you go to work, in those five years your earning capacity should not be re-evaluated. That sounds very technical, but that ensures that people with peace of mind can accept the job, without the fear that they will regret it in two years' time because they should not have taken the job. That was a looming error in the system we're dealing with right now. I would add that we are already making money available for this in the short term. My question to the Minister is what is going on with this package of measures. Are things on schedule to put that in place in good time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u65	It is good that Mr Van Weyenberg is concerned about the influx into the WIA. That is what 50PLUS does, because we think that this is also related to the longer and longer working of people. So you can see that more and more elderly people are invading the WIA. Is that an image that also recognizes D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u66	If more people work, including older people, who have a higher chance of getting into the WIA on average, that assumption could be quite correct. In fact, I picked this out myself in advance, but then it turns out that the UWV says on the basis of the latest figures that that is not an explanation at the moment. Yes, if a larger group works and the same share of it becomes unfortunately disabled, it will increase slightly. But I understand from all the studies that have been done, that this does not explain the increase in recent years. I think it is a point of interest to you to really do something about the fallout of the longer-acting people, because it is far too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u67	Wouldn't it make much more sense if we stopped working on that forever? I thought that would remove an important source of influx into the WIA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u68	First of all, the figures so far show that you do not see that effect. Two: that a group of people unfortunately doesn't work through, is no reason to say to the very large group who can, that they don't need it anymore. I would rather focus my efforts on countering the loss of longer-acting people. That's where I think Mrs. Van Brenk and I will find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u69	It is not quite right what has just been mentioned here regarding the influx to the WIA and the link with the AOW age increase. The UWV itself says that in 2025 there will be a higher inflow of 10% because of that AOW-age increase. If D66 thinks it's important to limit that influx to the WIA, wouldn't it make much more sense to at least freeze that AOW age?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u70	I'd still like to make a distinction. I did not claim that the going has an impact, what Mr De Jong now makes of it. In reply to Mrs Van Brenk's question, I believe that if more and more people work and the same proportion of people, unfortunately, get sick and unable to work, the number will increase, so far you have not seen that from the figures. I believe that in the same answer I recognised that if there are twice as many people going to work in the Netherlands, there is also an increase in incapacity for work. But I know that Mr De Jong wants to bring back the AOW age or freeze it. My group is not in favour of that. However, I am in favour of doing much more so that people can reach the AOW age in a healthy way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u71	So if the goal is to tackle the influx to the WIA and make sure that fewer people enter the WIA, it's not true that you have the reason to raise the 250 million euros. If you really mean that and the UWV itself indicates that in 2025 there is a 10% higher inflow to the WIA due to the AOW age increase, then you should address that. If the goal is to get fewer people into the WIA, do it first. Then why doesn't the D66 Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u72	In the period from 2015 to 2017, the number of new WIA benefits increased by between 15% and 20%, which according to the UWV is not related to the AOW age. And I think that's a problem. Anyone who flows into the WIA needs to see if it's avoidable, if we can do something about prevention, and if we can help more find a job for that person. That's the goal. I understand that Mr De Jong wants to turn it into an AOW debate, but I would very much like to talk about how we can better help people to get out of the WIA or not to get into it. In the past, Cabinets have also acted on it, which my group has also supported on average. It's really a problem when the WIA influx is rising so strongly. 'Cause I'm not gonna let anybody do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u73	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u74	If there are possibilities to limit the influx to the WIA, you should of course look at it. The UWV says: "Dear friends, that influx is already high but if you continue that AOW increase in your age, the influx will be 10% higher in 2025. If you really think you want to protect the WIA, you say, "Okay, then we're not gonna raise that age? That's what matters to me. We are constantly pretending that it is all in the interests of the people themselves or of the scheme itself, but in the end we simply have to raise 250 million. Why doesn't D66 just say that honestly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u75	I think I have said what my position is on the AOW. I would also like to stress the link with the payment of wages in the event of sickness. It is a major problem for SMEs in particular to give people a chance. It is therefore important to do something about this, please, together with the social partners. We are doing this not only for those SMEs but above all for all those workers who are not now employed and are not getting a fixed contract and who, if they may have a slightly less strong position, are also getting involved, because the employer does not dare to hire them. We're doing something to guide people much better, and we're actually looking at the rules. It is precisely this cohesion that I think is very important, and I am going to say something about the position of the social partners in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u76	On the contrary, I am afraid that because of this connection sick people will lose their balance at all, and that is not very helpful to these people. I know that D66 is committed to more company doctors and better prevention, but not to a reduction through the estimation decision, which I do see the other three parties doing, looking at the election programmes. D66 doesn't make that choice. Is D66 therefore willing to look at alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u77	We have agreed on precisely this coherence, including the payment of wages. By the way, we are making a lot of money available for that, and rightly so. I and Mr van Dijk's party have long called for this. The measure of the estimation decision was not included in my electoral programme, Mr Gijs van Dijk is right about it, but I am, of course, in favour of agreements. By the way, about the point of looking at something, I'd like to talk about it right now. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement also states, as the Prime Minister has stressed and as the Minister has pointed out, that coherence is very important and that it is very good to look together with the social partners at what we are going to do and whether there is also support for employers and employees. They also have a very important role to play in the subject of pay, absenteeism and prevention of incapacity for work. I also saw the letter from the trade unions, which said that they felt that the discussion in the Labour Foundation was complete. This is an impasse and you often have it in the polder, I say with some disappointment. I will not mention the word 'pension' here, on which I hope we will soon be able to hear an agreement. But as far as I'm concerned, it can't stop there. The Minister also said he'd like some more time. He has asked for an extra year to see whether we can make nice agreements on pay and on preventing influx into incapacity for work. I really want to call on him to take the lead here and really go with social partners to see if we can find anything. That hand-off was in the coalition agreement. The doors over there aren't as open as I like to see them anymore, but go ahead and do that. I would also like to call on employers and employees to take part in this discussion. The polder could use some action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u78	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u79	And I was done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u80	Unbelievable. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr Van Weyenberg spoke very strongly about the social partners and called on the Minister to talk to them. I think everyone can join us. Let's say there's no support for this. Is D66 then willing to look at an alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u82	I'm also saying, go and look at each other, if you can think of something smarter to achieve the goal that we have with each other in a different way. That's exactly why I'm saying, Minister, go talk. If I had said 'you are going to talk, but carry out everything we have written down in the coalition agreement to the letter', then you do not have to consult each other. So from the fact that I am making this appeal, you can see that I stand for what we have agreed. My party insists that if you carry responsibility, you also keep your end of the bargain. But I'm not doing that call for nothing. Mr Smeulders says: what if it fails? Then let me be a bigger polder-optimist today than he is. That's a bit of getting used to, I get the bewilderment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u83	No, no, no, sure. The question is whether you should be optimistic about it, if you want it to work. We hope that there will be an alternative. The question I am asking you about this is whether the amount of 250 million is hard as far as you are concerned. Or would you also agree that it would be acceptable if there were an alternative that would hopefully increase the number of people working, but in a social way, and that would not have to pay EUR 250 million for the treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr Smeulders draws one measure out of it. There are, of course, all these pay-as-you-go measures, which also have financial implications. I am in favour that you do not want to burden the budget any further, but if you manage to reduce inflow in other ways, that would also have budgetary consequences. So if you can come up with smart plans that will reduce the number of people who are unable to work and get more people to work, then that must also be found within the budgetary framework. I really hope so, because then something clever has been devised which achieves the goal that we all have here, namely fewer people who can still work and want to work very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u85	Finalizing, a brief point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u86	Rounding short. I was very pleased with Mr Van Weyenberg's first reply and a little less pleased with the second. He says: yes, we are willing to look at alternatives, but that must at least yield 250 million. Then it's just a cut and that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u87	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u88	In my view, Mr Smeulders sums up what he said and I am afraid that he is doing so on purpose. I have pointed out all kinds of other measures, including measures that cost money. If you make a coherent package, I'm confident there's something smart to come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u89	Then there is an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u90	This plan is starting to look a lot like that wage dispensation measure. The Secretary of State has said very wisely in this cabinet: this is not going to be him, this has no basis, we are going to come up with something else. Can Mr Van Weyenberg imagine that this will also apply to this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u91	If we come to something smarter that achieves the goals in a different way, please. And if I had no confidence that anything else could be done, I would not have called on the Minister and also trade unions and employers to have that conversation with each other about the whole area of disability, illness, pay and guidance. If I didn't believe in that, I would have just asked a very strange question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u92	I think of this as the glass that's half full. In fact, Mr Van Weyenberg opens the door to an alternative. That sounds good. Then, of course, you'll have the discussion about where to find it. Does the 250 million have to be cut out of the WIA or can it be cut out of the WIA? Because I still have some alternative coverage to find. Is this WIA austerity sacred or does he say: no, D66 didn't have this plan in the election program either, we just like looking for that money elsewhere so we don't have to hit people hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u93	Still a little while. We are releasing a lot of money so that the adjustment of pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness will enable small employers to return to a permanent contract. We free up a lot of money for the guidance by the UWV of people who are disabled. We are making a lot of money available for the training of people there, so that a job that they can now cope with will come back into reach. We free up a lot of money so you don't fall back when you get a job. That really is a threshold to dare to accept a job from the point of view of incapacity for work. We both think that's a perverse incentive. On that total, I await the proposals and I am hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u94	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u95	We know that the trade unions do not want to participate in this at the moment. Is there a deadline for D66, a time when Mr Van Weyenberg says: now I just want a knot cut and otherwise we're going to solve it differently, so not like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u96	I hope, however, that we will get together very quickly to think of something that will achieve the goals that I believe we all share with each other. Yes, please, in a way that does not create financial gaps for all of us. I look forward to any kind of creativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u97	Good. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Wiersma of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u98	Mr. Chairman. Work is a sure thing. If you become unfit for work for any reason, this security is at risk. And that's intense, when you really want nothing more than to take care of your income, no matter how small that part is sometimes. But it's not gonna happen by itself. With help and more guidance you can see more and by looking at what someone can do, you can put that perspective on work back in the picture. That is what it is about, and that is why the Cabinet is taking a number of measures to put that perspective at the centre of its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr Wiersma here today says that work provides security, that it ensures that you can provide for your own maintenance and that you are doing well. I fully agree with that, but we are talking today about a change around the WIA, where very vulnerable people will soon be caught for EUR 250 million. How many jobs are these people gonna get?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u100	This question sounds familiar to me. Let me put it this way: work doesn't just give certainty. It's nice that we agree that work gives certainty, but it doesn't just give certainty. It also gives the opportunity to show what you can do, and it is also important that there are jobs and that we do our best to do so. We're paying for that, too. A lot has been said today about personal guidance. It's not like there's no work at all right now. In fact, there are a lot of jobs. We call in every debate that everyone is needed on the labour market. Especially with this measure, when you see that we may have a greater shortage of people in the coming years, we are obliged to do everything we can to help people get a job. It is not for nothing that we are paying 30 million, already as of 1 January, to provide additional guidance and assistance to these people to help them get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u101	250 million euros will be taken. And then the VVD comes with: we also give 30 million, we do. You take EUR 250 million from a vulnerable group of people and you say: yes, those people should just get to work. What is it that shows that these people themselves wouldn't want to work, that they wouldn't do all they can to get to work, that they would do anything to get to work? What's that all about? There is just mistrust at the VVD and you simply take away EUR 250 million as a thank you for all the efforts that those people are already doing. Why does the VVD do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u102	We want to increase opportunities for people who are on the side side and not increase opportunities to stand on the sidelines. If Mr De Jong wants that, fine, but we don't want that. Mr De Jong mentions 250 million. I saw that. We're talking about 2064. I predict that by then... We know very little, we don't know what the labour market looks like, we don't know what kind of jobs there are. But I have such a feeling that we will need even more everyone on the labour market because in the coming years, when we look at the labour force and how it develops, we will have to do everything we can to attract people into the labour market. Then you can say: I wait until 2064 and look at it. We say: no, we are already going to do everything we can to give people that perspective on employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u103	That's nice, isn't it? It's actually quite nice, that you just say, "You know, we're going to offer perspective on work by taking people's money out of the wallet. I'm just going to make sure that 250 million euros are taken; and, you know, that's taking so long, you don't worry. The fact that tens of millions of euros will be taken away from these people over the next few years is not something I would like to tell you, of course, because that would not suit me well." Mr. Chairman. This is an antisocial austerity measure on a group of vulnerable people who are not getting any extra work through. It is antisocial and I do not understand why the VVD dares to use the word "work" in its mouth, while it ultimately causes vulnerable people to just end up in welfare and not be able to provide for their own maintenance, as they are already struggling to do. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u104	I stand for those people who are not so good or sometimes not at all able to participate in the labour market. And I do not stand for what Mr De Jong says, to put these people in a corner forever and ever. I think we should take up the challenge together to get that group in between. If you say you don't want to think about it, that's too bad. And very sorry for that large group of people who want to get in the middle of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u105	What caricature, what nonsense! Of course, this whole room wants us to help sick people, vulnerable people. We were just talking about style figures that are appropriate or not. Let's say we're going to increase people's chances by cutting them off on their benefit. That's the perspective of the VVD, and I've heard it before. I heard the party leader, Dijkhoff, about the assistance: "We're going to get people excited, by cutting them short, because they'll get jobs themselves." It doesn't make any sense and this style character certainly doesn't make any sense. Hence my question to the VVD. We belong to D66 some space, which says: there is talk, perhaps again later with the trade union movement. Is there room for an alternative? Or is this the VVD's wet dream?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr President, I had started the first four sentences of my speech, so if I have the chance to continue, then the answer to this question comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u107	Very good. Then you will continue and then Mr Gijs van Dijk will continue to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u108	For we have agreed on a whole package of measures in the coalition agreement. First of all, we have said that it is important that these measures also offer the social partners the opportunity to think about it and to find something about it, to see how this can be done better, to offer the outstretched hand. That doesn't affect the importance of the package of measures. 'Cause why don't you take that pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go for small employers? It is quite a job in SMEs to take on people there and also to remove fears that sometimes play in them. So that's what we need to do. But we will never do that well enough if we fail to do something about getting those people, who end up in the Disease Act through such a company and who may eventually end up getting back into that company what we do not hope for, but still become disabled. And that's why you need to get a few things together. There's no other way. There's no red button to fix that. And it's always easy to say: we don't have to do anything, because it's actually fine. I don't believe in that. I believe that's never fine. It is not for nothing, and that is the answer to Mr Gijs van Dijk, that this Minister has postponed that measure for a year in the budget. It is not for nothing that the 30 million, and another 40 million for personal aid in the WW, will go into effect on 1 January. So if we don't want to help people, then we shouldn't. In fact, I support that. But when I read that the Minister is coming back in the spring with how that is going to work and when I hear from the social partners that that conversation ended somewhere in early July, it does not make me happy. The last thing that makes sense in this type of measure is to stay on the subject for a very long time, not to clarify it and not to give it any effect. So I am still waiting for these measures to be worked out and for the Minister's answer on how he is going to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you. Was that your contribution? Because you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u110	Oh, I see it. Yes. But can I still finish the interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u111	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u112	Let's take a look at the future. Social partners say that the line of recent years is: more prevention, company doctors and personal guidance. And: the discount on the other side is counterproductive. Suppose that would be the outcome, which would also make sense given the discussions in recent years, is the VVD prepared not only to postpone the 250 million cuts on sick people, but also to withdraw them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u113	I would like to ask the Minister, Mr President, a number of my fellow Members have also done so in relation to the process towards the social partners and their impact. The outstretched hand is in the coalition agreement. This is confirmed in the budget, namely that we are postponing this measure for a year. If I didn't feel like it at all, I wouldn't ask. Then I'd say hurry up! I note that we have a whole package of measures. There are also budgetary consequences. I think it would be wise for the partners to find alternatives that fit within that whole package of measures. I don't think it's too strange that we should ask them. It seems strange to me that we've been muddling for almost a year now. I think I can appeal to the Minister and ask him to take control of that. I just think this is taking too long. We are also bringing more people into uncertainty; that is not necessary. And we do not seem to give the unions enough room to think about this either; at least that is what they are saying. I don't know what's true, so I'm asking the Minister. I would also ask the Minister to take control and come to a speedy conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u114	Finally. I also see some space at the VVD. If there are alternatives that are not a stick and that are not austerity, but are actually going to help people, then there is also room for this in the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u115	The coalition agreement is full of space. It is nice that Mr Van Dijk is also looking for it here. But I would also like to say that please go to the social partners, whom I believe you know well, especially the trade unions, and encourage them not to accept that door being closed and to pull themselves to the table. That would help a lot here. It's easy to close the door yourself. I kind of feel that way about that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr De Jong, please be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u117	Does Mr Wiersma agree with me that when it is said that alternatives are welcome, but that they have to fit within the financial framework, read: the EUR 250 million as they are now booked, which is not about helping people to work, but about taking EUR 250 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u118	No, I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u119	How on earth is it possible for the VVD to say that alternatives are possible as long as they only yield EUR 250 million? It's not the same thing. Because if the unions come up with an alternative that will bring much less money but that will get more people to work, which could just happen, then the VVD says: no, we don't want to, because it doesn't get the amount we want to collect. Under the line, the money turns out to be above the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u120	We have agreed on a whole package of measures. There are consequences to that. You can tear it apart, but I think it would be wise to ask the social partners that is the outstretched hand of thinking about alternatives. I don't think it's weird that you're using the frameworks you agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u121	But these agreed frameworks are framed every time as if they are ensuring that people get to work. But at the moment when the social partners would come up with an alternative plan that would get people to work very quickly, if that were to work, that would be great, but it wouldn't get 250 million, then the VVD says no. So there's no alternative and there's no other option but to take the money. That's what the VVD does. Then why doesn't the VVD just say that honestly? Isn't that what happens: the money goes above the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u122	I am always open to surprises and I hope that the polder will surprise me very positively here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u123	What I am wondering is whether Mr Wiersma and the VVD are actually happy with the proposed measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u124	We wrote this down in the coalition agreement. As I said, it is a package of measures aimed at helping people get back into that labour market. Work offers the best security; I believe in that. Work not only provides certainty, but also contacts and other benefits that you may not have if you are just sidelined. I hope you will agree with me. We have each other's responsibilities to do everything we can. The aim of the package is to achieve that. So yes, I support the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u125	I do welcome this honest answer, because I feel that the other coalition parties are grippingly defending these measures from the defence that it is a broader package that includes topics that they are very pleased with. But the VVD simply states that this particular measure is a really good measure that we fully support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u126	I have said about a lot of different measures just now that I think they are important. I am thinking, for example, of payment of wages in case of illness for the small entrepreneur. In these measures, I have said that I think it is important that we do not simply push the WIA aside by saying 'we don't have to do anything about it'. We need everyone on the labour market in the future and there are people in the WIA that we can help better. We free up money for guidance and personal help for those people. It is a package of measures, as you have just heard from the other parties. I'm not saying that's the best measure and that's... No, it's about the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u127	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for five minutes, then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u128	I'm reopening. The room is filled to the ridge here. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mr President, shall I wait until...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u130	If you just start, the people will flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u131	Yeah? Then I'm just gonna use some introductory words, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, House of Representatives, for asking questions on this important subject. I think it was Mr Gijs van Dijk who said that this subject is hidden in the coalition agreement. I do not agree with him: on pages 24 and 25 of the coalition agreement, the objectives and backgrounds are described in detail, as are the various measures relating to the influx of people into incapacity for work. A lot of questions have been asked about the process. I'd like to start with some sort of review of the process. What exactly has happened in the past year since the entry into force of the coalition agreement? After that, I would like to comment briefly on the plans themselves and on the coherence of these plans. Then I would like to address a few specific questions raised by the Chamber. Finally, I would like to give a preview of how we proceed on this subject. I think it's important to start with the trial. Indeed, the coalition agreement was presented, and on 15 December I sent you a letter with five tracks in my approach to the labour market agenda. On track four, this is a combination of measures relating to sickness and disability. That was, of course, not an accident, because the measures relating to the payment of wages in the event of sickness and the measures concerning the influx of people into the WIA are linked in substance, as some of you have also said. It is all about how we ensure, including through prevention, through the involvement of the employer and through activation to a second track, that people stay at work and that, if they are ill, they can use their remaining earning capacity to get back to work. In the spring, the interim presidents of SMEs-Netherlands indicated in De Telegraaf that the measures on the payment of wages in the event of sickness included in the government agreement could not count on the agreement of the employers' organizations. Then I said to the social partners: come up with an alternative. Come up with an alternative that does justice to the aims of the coalition agreement and that does justice to the broad shared feelings of employers as well as of trade unions, as I read in their letter yesterday, "It is certainly very complicated for small employers to employ people because of the accumulation of all kinds of risks." At that time, I deliberately gave the social partners room, as I also informed the Chamber in a letter dated 5 July. In that letter I mentioned that the social partners are in agreement on this combination of measures and that I would like to give the social partners a little more room for this consultation. At the same time it is true that from that moment on there was indeed little movement in the polder. I think the trade unions rightly wrote that in the letter sent to your Chamber yesterday. I just felt it was my responsibility not to sit down and wait. So I have taken control, as some of you have asked. I have taken control by starting to think about how you could properly implement those plans, so that they do justice to the goals of the coalition agreement. It is true that I initially started talking to employers' organisations about pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness, but never with the intention of doing so without the unions. I think it is important that I make this explicit here today, precisely because I believe that this important issue needs to be speeded up and that we need to clarify how we deal with it. Not only the people who have influx into the WIA are asking questions about this, but also the employers have questions about the payment of wages in the event of illness and the risks they see when hiring employees. So the intention has always been to pick up the sickness pay and the WIA together with the social partners, and that is still my intention. But it is urgent; I agree with your Chamber. We need to make this clear quickly. In the budget, you could see that, following a question from Mr Asscher in the general political considerations, we have postponed the measures for a year. They would actually start on 1 January 2019, which we have now made 1 January 2020. That had two reasons. On the one hand, there was no consultation with social partners that was satisfactory for all of us. On the other hand, there were also in the technical elaboration and execution by the UWV hooks and eyes. That is why we have postponed the measures for a year. This means, however, that in the foreseeable future, there will be a need to clarify these measures and the direction to be taken in order to achieve them by 1 January 2020. So that's the process that's been going on over the past few months. Indeed, I have taken the lead, I am still working on it, and I think it is important that we work together with the social partners, namely employers and trade unions, to shape this in a good way which does justice to the goals, namely to ensure that people do not enter into work and, if they do, to ensure that people get to work as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u132	Was this the cube...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u133	The block of trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u134	The logical follow-up question is, of course, what does the Minister do if his wish does not come true, his wish for an agreement to be reached with unions and employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u135	That's a like-dan question. I have learned over the past few months not to answer questions like that, otherwise you will say on the one hand that you want to consult with social partners and on the other hand you will say: no matter what happens, I will do it as I intended. I don't think that's the right constructive attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u136	But we have just had a first term, in which we have heard a lot of criticism of the plans. The basis is not very great for this plan, so to speak. Then the Minister can also state that he sees that the basis of support in society, which he attaches great importance to, is not there and that he is therefore prepared to look at alternatives? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u137	When I say in one sentence that I would like to consult with the social partners, i.e. employers and trade unions, on the development of these plans, that always means that you are willing to look at alternatives. Otherwise, we don't need to discuss it. Mr. Jasper van Dijk understands that, doesn't he? If I were to tell employers and trade unions that we can discuss what we want, but the government agreement is sacred, then I don't need that consultation. Of course I'm willing to think about alternatives, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u138	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u139	This is crucial, because the Minister states that a reduction of 250 million on disabled people can also be filled in in another way. I think that is an important moment to mark in this debate. Is the Minister indeed prepared to look at alternatives to this plan in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u140	I'm gonna give you a triple answer. Yeah, I just said that about alternatives. Two: we have, of course, made agreements with each other in the government agreement on the budgetary framework and its components. On balance, there will of course be more money available for my budget in the coming years, precisely because we have allocated extra money in the coalition agreement to personal support, family allowances and all kinds of other subjects. Of course, the overall budgetary framework applies, but of course there are underlying agreements with each other as to which direction we want to go with each other. So yes, I'm open to alternatives. The Minister of Finance would, of course, say to me that the budgetary frameworks do not matter. Of course they matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u141	In fact, the budgetary frameworks are sacred, they are above the people. Because if the Minister says that it is important that these people get to work and that he is okay with all the alternatives, as long as they produce EUR 250 million, then the goal is not to get people to work, but to raise money. Can the Minister honestly confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u142	No, that's not the case. I have outlined in my introduction that there is a combination of two types of measures: on the one hand, payment of wages in the event of illness, where there is a risk that employers will no longer employ people because they experience too many risks, but on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that these incentives are not for nothing. About ten years ago we had a big problem with the WAO in the Netherlands, because a lot of people were entering the incapacity for work. By increasing incentives for employers, by making prevention more central and by taking other measures, the influx has dropped sharply. That's a dilemma we talk about all the time. The most important point is that this package for payment of wages in the event of illness and influx of people into incapacity for work is linked in substance. That's how I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u143	The Minister may want this to be related, but this debate is about strengthening access to disability benefits. The Minister's answer indicates something. It shows how he looks at the people who are now in the WIA. He says: we need to tighten up, we need to make sure they get to work faster. But with that, the Minister actually says that these people are not doing their best now. They don't, because we need to tighten them up, we really need to push them to work. But we have had a debate here after debate which shows that it is very difficult for those people to get to work. So if the Minister wants to limit the influx, why does he choose, on the one hand, to allow it to be a austerity measure and, on the other hand, insist that it is a work measure? That doesn't go together, does it? That's just not right, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mr President, I should like to comment on the explanation of the plans contained in the coalition agreement. My procedural proposal would be to include Mr Jong's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u145	No, I just want an answer to a very simple question. EUR 250 million is being cut and it is said that one of the reasons why we are doing this is to limit the influx into the WIA. At the same time, the cabinet raises the AOW age, which means that in 2025 there will be a 10% higher influx into the WIA. So the cabinet says one thing and does the other. This minister has a mouth for trying to get people to work, but at the same time he says to the people who are now in the WIA: you are not trying well enough. Then why don't you just say honestly that it's a vulgar austerity measure and not a measure to help people get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u146	I'm not saying anyone who's in the WIA right now isn't doing their best. I am very far from these words. What I do outline is that the payment of wages in the event of illness and the WIA measure are connected. There is always a discussion about the increase in the AOW age behind it, but we know that from Mr De Jong. We have just taken that into account, and we have had a debate on this in the spring. But I would just like to limit it to what we are talking about today: the measures for payment of wages in the event of illness and the WIA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u147	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u148	No, Mr. De Jong. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u149	So we're about to go to the content of the plans, but I'd like to dwell on the process. It is about the space that the minister and the coalition have to look for alternatives with social partners as well. On the one hand, I hear that it has to produce money, because the budgetary framework is in place. We recognize that, of course. But can there be a measure other than the reduction of benefits, which in turn results in the inflow into the assistance? Is that room politically understood if it does yield a sum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u150	That space is there in my opinion, but it is of course about what purpose we have agreed with each other in the coalition agreement. In the coalition agreement on pages 24 and 25, these two chunks, these two main points of interest, pay for illness and the WIA, are explicitly included. How do we ensure that people are able to get back to work faster? There are roots and sticks for that, in my own words. Both types of measures are included in the coalition agreement. I'd like to walk by in a few minutes, sketch the palette. The aim is indeed to reduce the influx of people into disability schemes, by going to work, and to take preventive measures and other measures. That is also what the financial picture is attached to. Against this background, we are looking at this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u151	Finally. This debate is about the stick that we really do not want, because we say it does not work and because the current system is already very strict. So why would we want to hit people who are vulnerable even harder? I don't think we should want to. I belong to the Minister that there is room to find alternatives to that stick in the supervision and prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u152	Of course, within this interplay of different measures for the WIA there is room for alternatives. Otherwise, I would not invite the social partners to talk about alternatives. Then it would be a charade. What I always want to say is that, of course, these measures have not been chosen for nothing. If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to take a short walk through them. On the one hand, there are indeed measures such as the estimation decision. On the other hand, there are measures, such as the WGA 80-99, which Mr Heerma has just said a few words about, which are also subject to some reservations in the current regime. A classic example: a person with a very high income is declared more likely to be 80%-99% or wholly unfit for work than low-income people. The question is whether that is fair. All these elements, in my opinion, Mr Heerma has explained that in his contribution his reasons for looking at the system. Do I walk away from the painful measures that are in it? Absolutely not! I'm not running away from that. But I do think that the Chamber should consider the overall package. It also includes, for example, the review after five years. Why do we do that? Because we now hear that people who want to go to work and accept a lower income than they had before will lose some of their benefits if they get sick again afterwards. That's why they don't go to work. I do not think that is socially desirable, and I think that the Chamber agrees with me that we should deal with this. We therefore propose that this review be postponed for a few years. We do it after five years, to really give people the chance to get back to work sustainably. I think that is a very social measure. What else is in the plans? Extra money for training from the WIA. People in education get a chance to get back to work. What's in the plans? An extra pot for personal guidance by the UWV, because we see that people who have joined the WIA sometimes need extra guidance, to make the step to a job. I am trying to outline the combination of measures included in the coalition agreement with the intention of getting people back to work. There are indeed measures that increase the incentive. There are also measures to increase access and provide support to get back to work. I think we should look at it as a whole. There have been a few specific questions that I would like to pass by briefly, also in view of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u153	The Minister just indicated that the goal is to reduce the influx. Does he recognize that it's just a goal to cut back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u154	I am going to try to make a comparison for Mr Smeulders. The economy is attracting. As a result, there are more vacancies. As a result, people are flowing out of the WW, because they are going back to work. This saves on the benefits. Is the aim then to save on benefits? No, because there are more people at work. You can always frame anything. I'm not running away from the fact that this is an annoying measure. Immediately. But just focusing from this point of view, I think politically too... no, I'm not going to qualify it, because I think Mr Smeulders is a friendly man. These are the total of measures designed to reduce the influx into the WIA, but at the same time to increase the likelihood of outflow and resumption of work. That's how I judge it. It applies not only to the measures in the WIA, but also to the measures in the payment of wages in the event of sickness. Of this, we actually say Chamberwide, on the one hand, that small employers no longer accept people because of the accumulation of risks, which we all hear during our work visits, and, on the other hand, that we all see that it is extremely important that employers continue to play a role in preventing illness towards incapacity for work. That's how I'd like to outline it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u155	I'd like to get on with this. This also has to do with how you see the target group. People who are 80% to 99% disabled cannot find work that easily. I just asked the Minister about that. With this measure, he assumes that they will find work and that they will improve on it. The assessment we are making, and I think more parliamentary groups, is that these people are going down because they are not getting to work. I'd like a response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u156	When it comes to this particular measure, the WGA 80-99, I'm going to give a nuanced answer. On the one hand, Mr Heerma is right that there is something strange in the current system. Mr Gijs van Dijk has already mentioned it in his interruption. As your income is higher, the chances of getting a high disability rate are also greater. The question is: is that fair? On the other hand, there are also people who are more affected by this measure. That's right; I'm not running away from that either. I also need space and creativity to deal with this in the development of this measure. But just to paint that black and white, I don't think it's right. Both aspects are in this system. I think that Mr Smeulders should do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u157	Is it true, then, that the Minister actually states that this measure is an improvement for people who become disabled in the future? That's kind of the weird thing the minister's trying to suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u158	I have just said: I do not run from the fact that some of these measures are painful measures, that some measures are indeed roots, in old economists, and some stick behind the door. The experience of 20 years of discussion on disability schemes in the Netherlands also shows that the combination of these two measures, on the one hand financial incentives and, on the other hand, prevention and training, is necessary to ensure that fewer people enter and stay in incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u159	Questions and answers may be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u160	We are now at the content of the measures. I acknowledge that the cabinet and the coalition are taking a number of preventive measures, such as training and guidance. That's really good. I also wish them success. But it's about that stick now. It's about cutting back on vulnerable people. That is why we call on the Minister not to do so. The effect of this measure is to increase the inflow into assistance. I was just pointing that out. At least that's what I'm seeing. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u161	That's right. I believe that a number of written questions have been raised during the budget debate, which have also been answered. On the basis of the coalition agreement plans, we have made the best possible assessment of the consequences. Since the plans are not so concretely worked out, I cannot therefore say exactly how much. But in general, of course, there are leaking effects that are called "technical" if we take measures on, for example, increasing the age of AOW or the influx into the WIA. There will be greater recourse to other schemes. We always do that nicely in the Netherlands. And you can see that with this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u162	But this is exactly what I find the painful effect. We actually have good collective health insurance, which is already quite strict and has been substantially adapted in recent years. But the assistance will then become the new fall-back option for a certain group, which is vulnerable, because access to that collective health insurance is no longer available. You can't sell that in these times, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u163	On the one hand, I understand Mr Gijs van Dijk's question. That is also exactly part of the work that needs to be done quickly. On the other hand, this is, of course, always inherent in all the changes in the social security schemes we have in the Netherlands. Mr De Jong has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the higher WIA influx as a result of the increase in the AOW age. This has also been properly mapped out in the increase in the age of AOW. Because those effects are indeed there, not because a very large part of the Netherlands does not reach the AOW age, but because we know from all the figures that the influx into the disability schemes is higher as the age is higher. I think you should be transparent about that. But I'm going back to the goal: how are we going to ensure that people don't enter the WIA, through prevention and all kinds of other things, and also flow out of the WIA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u164	Finally. I would like the health insurance we have to apply to everyone. In my view, the fact that a person who pays contributions for years will eventually find out at the time of the inspection that he is still receiving the assistance is really the ax to the root of our solidarity system. I therefore call on the Minister: do not allow the assistance to be the new standard and the new fallback option for people who have just paid a decent premium for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u165	One: yes, we will, of course, take that into account in the elaboration. Two: in the current system, of course, that is no different. People below 35% are declared unfit for work... Mr Gijs van Dijk must also acknowledge this. He's now suggesting that it's all very black and white, but it's just not. Mr Gijs van Dijk knows that too, and I think he agrees. He's smiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u166	I understand you're making that statement on his behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u167	For the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u168	The minister just reacted a little irritated when I spoke here about the influx into the WIA. If the minister says "we want that influx in the WIA to decrease," then he must also ensure that it is done. My question is therefore: why does this minister choose to allow the influx in 2025 to just be 10% higher because of that increase in the AOW age? Why do you keep doing that when it comes to the WIA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u169	Because it's about the total picture. When it comes to the development of life expectancy and the ageing population in the Netherlands, previous Cabinets, and indeed myself as a Member of Parliament, have given a great deal of support to the increase in the age of AOW, because it deals with the affordability of our collective provisions in the long term. The employment rate of people aged between 60 and 65 has increased significantly in recent years, in fact since 2004, when the Vulnerable Schemes were abolished. That is a positive development. There is therefore a broader basis for support for our collective provision. That is where we pay out health care, social security, roads and infrastructure. Is that just roses and moonshine? No, of course not. I'm not running away from that either. All these measures have been taken into account. We also know from the past that the influx into the WIA for people who are 63 or 64 is slightly higher than for people who are 50. We'll take that into account. That also means that we have to take action. I've been saying that for several months. How are employers, employees and the government going to work together to ensure that we pay more attention to the sustainable employability of people? We do this either by training or by periodic job rotations. Mr Wiersma asked written questions on this point last week. What happens in collective agreements? So I really think that Mr De Jong has too limited a look by making this a subject of discussion about the influx into incapacity for work. Mr De Jong knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u170	Oh, oh, I think the Minister himself's plan is to limit the influx towards the WIA. I'm sorry, Minister, that I'm talking about your own plans. I apologize immediately for the fact that I'm talking about your own goals. But since we are having a debate here on your goals, please allow me to talk about it. The minister wasn't about to have an AOW debate. He just had a very flaming argument about why he's raising his age. Kind of a crazy way of doing it, Minister. Anyway, of course, that's up to you. My question remains: when the aim is to limit the WIA inflow, why do you maintain measures that ensure that the influx increases by 10% due to the AOW age increase? If you consider the influx to be so important and at the same time increase it, then you are simply bringing forward a austerity measure at the expense of a very vulnerable group of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr De Jong is using a little debate trick. I've learned to draw attention to that. Mr De Jong himself widened the debate to raise the age of AOW. We are talking today about the measures in the WIA in the coalition agreement. Both have an effect on the influx of people into the WIA. I agree with you immediately. I have just acknowledged this and explained it in detail. The point is: Mr De Jong says that if the influx of people into the WIA is an important point, you should not increase the AOW age. I have just said in my reply that I think this is a very unwise measure, because it concerns our support for collective provision in the future. What I do want to talk about is how we can shape the measures contained in the government agreement on the influx of people into the WIA and pay-as-you-go in the event of illness in a way that works well for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u172	This is kind of nice. The Minister says: now a debate trick is being used. That's the best debate trick you can use, because he's distracting from the question that's been asked. My question was about the influx towards the WIA. Since when can I not say what is the reason for the influx into the WIA, if that AOW increase in age is a reason for the WIA influx? What kind of crazy shit is this Secretary of State doing? I'm just asking the question. If by 2025 the inflow increases by 10% due to this AOW increase in age, why hold on to it if you want to limit that inflow? That doesn't make any sense, does it? Then this Minister can focus on the overall package, but then he runs away from its actual impact, namely to get EUR 250 million. My question to this minister is: stop playing games. Stop looking at this Chamber as a necessary evil and a place where you can quickly coat debates through it. I'm just asking you to look at the vulnerable group of people that is now being caught by your plans. Please respond seriously to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u173	I have already given the answer on the AOW to Mr De Jong. The second point is: yes, there are measures in the plans that can be painful. I just gave that as an answer. The point is, of course, that we are now working on the elaboration. If that effect is there, I'd be happy to discuss it with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u174	I welcome the fact that this Minister admits that this is one of the painful measures. I think it would be even more painful for people at home if, as the Minister has just done, you were put away as "a leaking effect," because if you approve everything more stringently, a large group at the bottom will sink. It'll go to welfare. Very often they will have to eat their homes and there will be more poverty in the Netherlands. Isn't that the result of this measure? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u175	Two things. I really regret that Mrs Van Brenk had a discussion with Mr Gijs van Dijk on the effects of these estimates, on how we map them and on total social security, as if I were referring to people as 'a road leak'. I would like to say that for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u176	It's been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u177	The second point is that the adjustments to the social security measures do indeed have consequences which mean that some people who would previously be eligible for disability benefits will no longer be eligible for them. That is indeed the concrete effect of the measure on the estimation decision contained in the government agreement. The overall effect depends very much on the precise elaboration of these plans. Those plans aren't there yet. I'll have to work on that, and I'll get back to your room. Then we can have the substantive debate on this, but I am not going to run away from it. That's right. In fact, we also show this clearly and transparently in all the calculations we make about changes, not only in social security legislation but also in healthcare legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u178	I understand that the Minister regrets that he has just said 'depleting effect', because I really hate using such a word, because we see that a lot of people are going to be really driven towards poverty. I sincerely wonder whether the cabinet realizes this, because these people will soon be driven towards assistance and may not even have any form of benefit at all. We have a very big problem here in the Netherlands that more and more people need to use the food bank. That's also your wallet. So I would like to know how the Minister sees this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u179	Yeah, it's seen. Sorry, I'm going to continue answering the questions. Mr Smeulders specifically asked whether the measures are real and whether there is work for these people. In 2016, more than 40% of people with remaining earning capacity were employed who are entitled to WIA benefits. Of course, that is still insufficient. So there is work for these people. Of course, this group often also needs guidance. The UWV helps with that, too. We have also set aside additional resources for this in the coalition agreement. We have reserved money for education and for the personal approach by the UWV to help this target group, these people, to return to the labour market. Also relevant is the re-evaluation after five years, because we know from people's stories that because of the risk that they may lose their benefit, they do not now accept a job. The combination of these measures is therefore aimed precisely at increasing the size of this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u180	I understand that the combination of these measures is aimed at increasing the size of the group, but the Minister himself states that 40% of the people in the WIA currently have jobs. This is a more difficult target group to join. Does the Minister therefore recognise that there is a chance that more than half of these people will simply not find a job and that this is really a very large percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u181	I have no idea why that is. The WIA is, of course, concerned with two benefit schemes: those who are partially disabled and have a residual earning capacity, which means that people are deemed to be able to find work, and those who are fully and permanently disabled. For those who have earning capacity, incentives and guidance are aimed at helping them get back to work. Of the people with earning capacity, more than 40% work, so there is much to improve. I agree with Mr Smeulders immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u182	If we succeed in getting out with the social partners, we might actually be talking about a change in the law one more time. I would find it very interesting if this point were to be further developed or if further research were to be carried out. Because we're assuming that these people can get to work, but right now that's only 40%. I think it is even less so with this target group, so I think it is important that the Minister pays attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u183	I will. Together with the UWV we also map the effectiveness of the personal approach. The UWV has done so in recent years during the guidance at the WW. We have earmarked 40 million for this kind of assistance. We explicitly labeled part of the 70 million from the coalition agreement to the WIA. We're looking at how effective that is. What does work? What's not working? It is precisely this that teaches us what approach and what support are effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u184	I'd appreciate it if the minister got into the final stages.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u185	I will answer a few more questions very quickly. Mrs. Van Brenk has asked me what I'm going to do for the 35-minner group. Within the group 35-minners there are indeed people who need extra help. That is why I have included in the upcoming collection law that the UWV will start buying re-integration from 1 January 2019 for 35-minners who benefit from this. That is what we are doing to make instruments available for that purpose. For 35-minners benefiting from training, the UWV can use the Temporary Training Budget Scheme UWV in response to the Van Weyenberg and Others amendment submitted at the last budget treatment. This allows the UWV to offer customization to 35-minners. It's not possible yet. For this there are plans in the Collecting Act SZW. Mrs Van Brenk asked a question about the number of doctors. I sent a letter on that in July. For the record, I would like to refer to that letter. I will discuss this matter with your Chamber at a later date. Mr De Jong specifically raised the question of the consequences of the plans. How much euros are people going backwards on it? How many people are on welfare? There is still room for social partners to discuss the practical implementation. Then it will come into effect, and then I will be able to give those numbers and map out the consequences. That is what we will be discussing in detail when dealing with the content of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u186	I'm doing interruptions in ones from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u187	With regard to the specific questions about people's income and security, all I have to ask is whether the Minister will send the plans to the Chamber as soon as he has them and take the answers with him right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u188	We always do that by default. So that's what we're gonna do. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked a question about the pilots for prevention and guidance, particularly in connection with the social agreement 2013. I think it is about the sectoral pilots that come from the social agreement. In these pilots, three sectors have taken over the reintegration and guidance of a total of 210 people entitled to sickness legislation from UWV. The aim was to investigate whether transferring such a reintegration task to the sectors themselves is likely to prevent influx. The evaluation carried out by the Examination Office showed that the disease duration of the ZW beneficiaries in the sectors was significantly shorter than in the UWV. When it was about illness, it worked, but they didn't flow out to work more often. So the image is nuanced. In terms of WIA influx, there was also no difference between the group that is accompanied by the UWV and the group that is accompanied by the sectors themselves. So it did have a positive effect on short-term illness, but ultimately it didn't have a positive effect on the influx into the WIA. That means we still have to look for things that work. Finally, the preview. Some of you have asked when the plans are coming. Take the lead! I took the lead and I'm still taking it, partly behind the scenes. I am really trying to have a letter with you before the budget debate which says how we are going to shape this overall package. I need that time to implement it in legislation and implementation. I would like to say that, for the budgetary procedure, I come to the Chamber with a letter on the combination of sickness pay and the WIA. I hope that this will also enable me to discuss these plans with the social partners in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u189	Thank you. Then we go to the second term of the Chamber, if there is a need for it. At least that is the case with Mr Jasper van Dijk. Like everyone else, he has one minute's speaking time. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u190	Mr. Chairman. There's consensus. This is a painful measure, which is not acceptable. The Minister himself says: an alternative is perfectly possible. Then he should embrace this motion, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that a decent safety net is necessary for people who become disabled;]] [[calls on the Government to make an alternative to the reduction of 250 million on disabled persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Smeulders and Mr De Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32716-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u191	The motion has been supported in opposition. Then you know it's actually just a good motion, which the coalition can also support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u192	Oh, so that's how it works?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u193	Mr. Chairman. The second motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people who are less than 35% disabled find it difficult to get to work but are not given structural assistance in finding a new job;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to provide appropriate guidance to and from work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32716-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u194	Of course, this is a challenge. I would have expected this from someone else, but the chairman is coming with it. No, of course that means it's a very strong motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u195	Very good. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a good debate. I welcome the scope offered by both the cabinet and the coalition parties for further action. What has also kept me very much up to date is that the WIA system is so complicated and it's also about people pouring in in the future that you're still feeling relatively little resistance in society. But we actually know it's gonna come if we're really gonna do this. We really need to get ahead of that, also because it can really be about everyone, and we may not realize that enough. So maybe this debate is about you or me. I really hope not, but we have to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u197	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Brenk of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u198	Mr. Chairman. We agree that unfair effects should be removed from the WIA. A director who is disabled rather than a construction worker is certainly undesirable. But as far as we are concerned, we are concerned that the limit of tightening has not been reached. And we think that the resumption measures are very lean. I would therefore ask the Minister whether he can add a little more to that. There is also talk of a temporary training measure. Until now, we often see that there are age restrictions. I would like to hear that is certainly not the case in this case. And again, we are very worried about the group that is falling further and further down, so that there are more 35-miners coming to the group of people who have been rejected. Looks like we're sending these people out with a one-way ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have started this debate very firmly. I have said that it is actually a matter of civilisation how we deal with vulnerable and sick people. That is really very relevant to the Labour Party. That will remain, because we are really having a discussion about how we deal with people who are having a hard time. Are we gonna help them? Are we gonna stand by them? Yeah, so does the coalition. At the same time, she wants to keep that financial incentive, that stick to hit with, in the air. I would like to start the debate in the near future on the need for that stick, because it is not there as far as we are concerned. Let's take people and guide them. Let's work things out at the workplace. But please leave the stick. That's my call. I have heard that within the coalition and with the minister there is really room to think about how we deal with people who are ill and what is the best way to do that. It may also be possible for the social partners, including the trade union movement, to come up with a real alternative, so that we leave that stick behind and really guide people to a healthy and better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u201	Then Mr De Jong of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u202	Mr President, thank you very much. As far as I am concerned, this is a very unsatisfactory debate. I also do not agree that there seems to be room for the group of reduced labour, because in the end it should simply yield EUR 250 million below the line. No matter how you turn it or turn it, the money goes above the people. That should never happen, but I really do not understand that it is precisely at this time that the purpose is to take money. Yeah, well, if we can do some positive things along the way, that's good, but the money just needs to come in. Mr. Chairman. My appeal to the Minister is: just withdraw this proposal. If you're looking for money, take it away from the frauds committed within social security. Last time we saw EUR 370 million in WW fraud, of which only EUR 2.5 million was recovered. You can't explain that if you then take money away from people in a vulnerable group? Mr. Chairman. That's my argument. I sincerely hope that this Minister will do so, but in the end it will be decided that EUR 250 million will be removed under the line. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u203	Thank you. Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u204	Mr. Chairman. Following the debate, but also following the letter from the trade unions last Tuesday, the Minister's replies and my surprise at the letter, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has entered into consultation with employers and employees on the planned measures on pay-as-you-go payments in the event of sickness and WIA;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has indicated that it is open to proposals from social partners which improve the acceptance of the system of sickness and disability;]] [[noting that trade unions have indicated that the talks in the Labour Foundation will be concluded;]] [[considers that it is of common interest to prevent workers from being unnecessarily sidelined;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to table with employers and employees to make, within the budgetary framework, agreements on sickness pay and WIA and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the budgetary treatment of SZW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32716-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u205	This motion was co-signed by Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins, and is therefore a coalition-wide motion. I wonder whether the opposite of Mr Van Dijk's logic applies to him too. Finally, I very much agree with Mr Smeulder's second term, that action should not only look at the resistance at the moment, but also have a responsibility to look at the longer-term effects. I think that's a good addition. In the future, we will have to do this widely with these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u206	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good thing that we are debating this. This is an important subject that affects a lot of people. It's both the chance that you don't get started right now because SMEs are afraid to take you on and the fact that the WIA influx is rising. Then we may occasionally have different approach routes about what should be dominant in the approach, but I think we are united in the goal we have there. I have signed Mr Heerma's motion with conviction, because the discussion must not end in the current impasse in the polder. That is why we call on the Minister to discuss this issue, particularly with regard to the link between payment of wages, the measures in the WIA and all the support measures in the government agreement to which my group attaches great importance. In this context, I had asked a question about the two measures that will only come into force in 2020. I'm talking about if you start working out of disability in a lower paid job and you lose your job, you don't fall back on a lower benefit and you shouldn't have accepted that job. Is the cabinet on course at that point? This applies equally to the pilot with training. I'm very attached to both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u208	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Wiersma of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u209	Mr President, thank you. What, I believe, permeates, regardless of the tone that everyone chooses in this debate, is the search that we are doing together to find the balance between people who are unable to work and sometimes have real difficulty keeping all the balls in the air and on the other hand offering the search and finding of opportunities and challenges and the prospect of getting back in the way. I like that we're not just showing each other all the corners of the room, but we're also looking for a way to do this in the right way. The Minister received the request from the Chamber by Mr Heerma's motion to re-examine, with new energy, ways of shaping this in good faith. We have indicated that at some point it must lead to something. It is therefore a good thing that there is a clear deadline in this motion. I look forward to the letter on this for the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u210	Fine, thank you. So much for the second term of office. I'm gonna suspend for a few minutes and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u211	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u212	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to your Chamber for asking a number of questions in the second term. Mr Smeulders is quite right to speak of a complex system. That is indeed the case. If you go into it, you'll also see all the abbreviations and all the classes and percentages. It is indeed a very complex system. That is why it is good to have a nuanced debate on this if it is really a proposal and to identify the consequences. Mrs Van Brenk had asked a specific question about the training measures, namely whether they are age-dependent. The answer is no. I think Mrs Van Brenn is happy about that. Mr Van Weyenberg had two specific questions about when the measures were to be implemented. The plan is now 2020 for the re-evaluation and pilots on training. It is intended to become a single package, starting at the same time as 1 January 2020. It's complicated because we don't know exactly what the package looks like right now. It is the intention and we are on schedule in this respect. This means, however, that we need clarity in the budgetary procedure, because we need time for legislation, but also for implementation. So in 2019 it must have been crystallized and laid down in legislation and discussed with your Chamber and the First Chamber. The target is 1 January 2020. Then there's the motions. Despite the fact that the entire opposition under motion No. 31 states, I think motion No. 33 better because that motion offers just a little more nuance, space and perspective than motion no. 31. So motion no. 31 I would advise against and motion No. 33 I'd like to leave judgment room. I have indeed heard the call from several of you to take the combination of direction and at the same time consult with the social partners in order to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u213	And what do you do with motion No. 32?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u214	Some motion No. 32 I have just indicated in my term what is in the collecting law SZW when it comes to the group 35-minners. At present, there is no reason to take additional measures. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u215	I have just had a discussion with a considerable part of the opposition on motion No. 33. If the coalition is prepared to delete a small sentence from that, we want motion No. 33 support. That is the phrase 'within the budgetary framework'. I want the coalition to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u216	Yeah, that's gonna be a piece of cow business like we rarely see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u217	Mr President, that is up to the Chamber and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u218	No, I know. I'm not looking at you either; I'll take a look at the first signatory of that motion. That's Mr. Pieter Heerma. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u219	I thought it was a nice gesture from Mr Van Dijk, but I do think the budgetary frameworks are important. That was also exchanged here in the debate. I also know, and we saw that in the vote last Tuesday, that a significant part of the opposition also considers it important, given the voting behaviour of amendments that are not so strong in the area of budgetary frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u220	Motion No. 33 is not amended. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u221	I have a question about the second motion. The Minister says he has no plans, but I have also heard the Minister say that it is a focus for 35-minners. I have read most of the motion, but I am looking at the petitioner with a slanted eye as if to see if there is anything more to be done without saying what needs to be done. I would find that more research interesting, apart from Mr Jasper van Dijk's exact motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u222	I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's comment. I have just indicated in my own term when asked by Mrs Van Brenk that in the SZW Collecting Act, which is still in your Chamber, we have made room for the UWV to make re-integration tools available to this group. This is precisely because of previous discussions with your Chamber that there is no service available for this group. Against that backdrop, I say I'm deceiving this motion right now. Apart from that, the general question remains as to what good tools or ways are to guide people towards work. That is also part of the overall package. But I would like to discourage this particular motion at this time, because I would like to discuss the Collecting Law SZW with you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u223	That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u224	Thank you to the Minister for his presence today. The three motions will be put to the vote on Tuesday.
