ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is a debate on the import and dumping of contaminated land from abroad. I would like to give the floor to Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, we apply strict environmental rules, and that is a good thing. Protecting our environment, and therefore our health, is always the top priority in terms of SP. However, we note that our environment is under severe pressure from large-scale capital and profit maximization. It's attractive and easy to dump all kinds of chemical crap into the environment. Beerput Nederland gave an insight into the mixtures of chemical substances in fuel oil, which is then dumped by tankers in the water. We regularly have debates about Chemours and the discharge of GenX, which is now in many places and in our drinking water. Plastics and other types of litter are released into the environment and thousands of animals are killed every year. Asbestos has been banned for 25 years, but still turns up in make-up for example. Every year it still demands more than 500 deaths. And as if that's not enough, dredging companies have been bringing millions of tons of contaminated soil and sludge from abroad to dump it into former sand sinks in our country for years. That's what we're really worried about, and we're not the only ones. Residents of Culemborg, West Maas and Waal and other municipalities are worried and angry. An information evening in Dreumel about the location of the Vonkerplas led to the emergence of hundreds of residents. Several environmental experts also expressed their concerns. That is why it is good and necessary for us to have this debate together. Signals about similar situations reach us from different parts of the country. The swimming pool in the Rosandepolder between Arnhem and Oosterbeek and the Koornwaardplas in Den Bosch are also examples of this. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how many cases have occurred in the last ten years, where these incidents have taken place and in which of these cases contaminated land has been imported from abroad. Last Tuesday it was announced that the Public Prosecutor's Office is conducting a criminal investigation because the contaminated land used by the new sea dike at Perkpolder in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen does not meet the conditions and is more polluted than the documents show. Also Rijkswaterstaat admits that something has gone very wrong. Does the Secretary of State think that this is an incident or that there are several situations in the country where the soil turns out to be more polluted than the documents say? What happens to the company that imported and deposited the contaminated land? Is that company now under enhanced supervision? Were there any fines handed out? How do we prevent this company from continuing with these practices? Mr. Chairman. In replying to the written questions and in the letter sent yesterday, the Secretary of State states that the Decision on soil quality must protect soil and surface water. Is that Decision also taking into account the fact that foreign land material may have undesirable effects? For example, presence of large amounts of lime can lead to an increased pH value in the water. What does the Secretary of State know about this and how do we prevent such effects? The SP West Maas and Waal asked local questions about the project About the Meuse and received in response that the Decision allows soil quality certain contaminated soil substances. That is why I am pleased to read that yesterday's letter from the Secretary of State states that she is going to evaluate the frameworks of the current law and rules and to examine whether limiting foreign material is necessary. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that poverty should only happen if it has real added value, that it should be done as much as possible with clean land from the environment itself and that residents should have a say in the process that affects their immediate living environment? Can the Secretary of State tell us more about her plans and the timetable she has in mind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. I call Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you as a citizen want to grow something on your house and a piece of land needs to be dug, then you're always expected to give a statement about what's in that ground. We always think we'll get a clean-up statement, but afterwards it turns out that clean land doesn't really exist. There is always something in it, but of course we have agreed values. Then it is difficult to explain that contaminated soil is being dumped into deep holes in the Netherlands and then it is also good to imagine that residents in that area are going to wonder what we are doing with each other. In the 1940s, 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and even the 1980s, there was a lot of waste dumped and landfilled, also with permits, from which we later picked and even reaped the wretched fruits. Think about asbestos and such. I understand that there are 600,000 locations in the Netherlands where at least something has happened in the past. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether she can say anything about the plan that was ever launched to have this towards 2030 in view and under control. With the knowledge of that time, we also thought that if we were to fill those holes, nature would get a plus through it. In the meantime, we are so far that we know that not always in these kinds of cases that nature actually gets a plus, although the intentions were there. The concerns that we have also discussed in our group and the questions that have been put to me internally, I am happy to see an answer, also in the letter sent by the Secretary of State. That letter gives a lot of hope, because at least it gives answers to everything that comes to mind. However, I still have a number of supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	But first, Mr Van Aalst has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	A question to my colleague from the VVD. How does the VVD view with the knowledge that asbestos-containing products do not belong in the soil, the current situation in the Court of Twente, in which new land is put on land that is not clean and still contains asbestos?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	We do not have an asbestos debate here at the moment, but I can imagine that if you start a process where you intend to replace land containing asbestos and then replace it with land containing asbestos, you have to start wondering if that means carrying water to the sea. I think I will explain this sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you. You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	The question has already been asked by Mr Laçin in a slightly different form, but our group is also wondering whether the places where all these payments have been made are in the picture, or whether what is in that land is recorded and what the origin of that land is. Maybe the Secretary of State can also indicate what pollution we should think about. The Secretary of State also states in her letter that she is going to carry out an evaluation. At what time can we expect this evaluation and at what time does the Secretary of State think that she will be able to send the findings and the possible adjustments she may wish to present to the Chamber? In any case, the VVD Group is at the forefront of the need to remove this unrest among the population. There must be clear guarantees when a permit is finally granted, because safety and health are also at the forefront of the VVD Group. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. My mom taught me to clean up your own mess. That seems logical, but unfortunately it is often not so. There are landowners who sell the land under their feet and then fill the hole with someone else's junk. Millions of euros are involved in this. This seems to be a practice from the last century, but unfortunately this is still taking place. The principle that everyone is responsible for their own waste does not apply in Europe. The laws of the market apply. And dumping in the Netherlands turns out to be very attractive, as the example of the Redichemse Waard shows. There's a lot of digging in the Netherlands, so there's plenty of places to dump. The shallowness is then counted as a natural recovery and so we run the risk that polluted sludge can be disposed of from abroad. In practice, there seems to be a lot of enforcement problems, and that is worrying as far as we are concerned. The possibility of dumping dredging into holes was once conceived so that we could clean up our own dredging, not to facilitate European trade in poisonous soil. We're actually seeing the same thing with the waste incineration. Is this what we really want? Do we really want to become the drain of Europe for waste? Is this what's going to bring us to a circular economy? Also the policy for nature restoration after sand and gravel excavation is undoubtedly made with the best intentions, but is it robust enough? Is it up to the cowboys in the sector? Because we are dealing in practice with cowboys, that is clear from the examples. The Secretary of State seems to share these concerns, and I'm happy about that. It states in its letter that the frameworks should be evaluated and possibly adapted. That seems to us to be very important. I too, like my colleagues, ask: what is the deadline for this to happen? On our side, a move. As far as we're concerned, there's got to be customization for every well. A plan that is the best for ecology, the landscape and the environment. Shallows isn't always the best solution. Old excavations have often created a new ecosystem that has its own value, such as the well at Culemborg that I named earlier has been inhabited by beavers and icebirds. Do we really want to flood that with contaminated soil? In the case of new excavations, that plan should be prepared in advance. There must be a plan of how the ecology will be restored afterwards. If necessary, this must be borne by the profits of the excavations. As far as we are concerned, there must be much stricter requirements and better enforcement for the dredging to be dumped, not only strict toxicological requirements but also: no mixing of soil species that do not belong in an area and do not carry invasive species. The social costs of the impact of landfilling contaminated land must be recovered from the polluter. This could be done through a duty of care for companies. That way you could force them to pay. Companies previously involved in fraud or other unfresh business should be able to be excluded from this type of trade. The documents again mention a company about which I think we also discussed a week ago, at the Beerput Netherlands debate. I would very much like a response from the Secretary of State to these concrete suggestions and I look forward to the debate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you. I call Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that it is always a bit of a pity for a debate that we are having here, if we get a letter two days in advance from the Secretary of State in this case, who actually indicates that she is already partly in agreement with the Chamber that something needs to happen. That's always a bit of a bomb under the debate. Mr. Chairman. Bagger companies have been extracting contaminated soil and sludge from abroad on a large scale for a number of years and then dumping it in former sand sinks along the Dutch rivers. It doesn't turn out to be without consequences. In the meantime, the Inspection Environment and Transport has assessed the risk of soil pollution as the greatest risk in its field of activity. Mr. Chairman. This whole story strongly reminiscent of asbestos remodelling in the Twente Goor, in Hof van Twente. As a precaution, all gardens have been dug, regardless of the presence of asbestos. This is positive, but contaminated soil is then mixed with clean soil, until it falls under the standard, and is then returned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr Ziengs has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	Yes, Mr President, he came to me at the beginning of Mr Van Aalst's speech. He says there's a letter from the Secretary of State that actually puts a bomb under the debate. I believe that as Members of Parliament, we have a responsibility of our own. The scheme is often called for a debate on the basis of current events. Then we, also the VVD Group, often try to say: ask for a letter first, then you really know whether there is still a need for a debate. I would therefore like to ask that perhaps in the case of subsequent arrangements, I should first like to see whether there is actual material underneath it, such as a response from the cabinet, before there is support for a request for a debate. Saves a lot of time in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	I welcome these wise words from my colleague in the VVD. In that respect, we fully agree that it is a pity that we are having a debate now, when we will probably soon be getting new directives and frameworks from the Secretary of State, which we will then discuss again. I think we could have prevented that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	I see this debate above all as an opportunity to give the Secretary of State what these guidelines and frameworks might look like and what level of ambition we expect in it. So I am very curious about the suggestions and ideas of my colleague Van Aalst. What would it be? Let us take advantage of this opportunity instead of talking about a bomb under the debate because the Secretary of State says she wants to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	First of all, I'm glad the Secretary of State wants to do something. I'm sure I'll get back to what I already want to give. However, it is a pity that we are doing so now; I believe that we should have acted in the right order and debated together at the right time. I think the debate is a little superfluous in this case. Mr. Chairman. As I said just now about the return of contaminated land, this same principle is now being applied to the landfilling of the sand sinks. If you mix dirty soil with clean soil enough, you'll get out of the norm. Then you probably act according to the letter of the law, but certainly not according to the spirit of the law. The standard is intended as the final limit. In the event of a violation of this rule, a penalty cannot be avoided. By just sitting under it, you treat the standard as a target. This ignores the fact that every standard implies a minimum requirement. Why didn't the Secretary of State intervene much earlier by maintaining not only the upper standard, but also the minimum requirement? Businesses applying never need to provide their mitigation strategy. Wouldn't it have been better to ask about this? If not, why not? Mr. Chairman. An additional injustice is that this is made up of big money. Abroad, dredging companies pay to use Dutch recreational and water extraction areas as a drainage well. Then abroad is nice off the mess. As far as PVV is concerned, the health of residents should never be unnecessarily compromised, but that is what is happening now. The government facilitates companies looking for that upper limit. This has to stop. Therefore, the PVV calls on the State Secretary to stop importing contaminated land through a ban. Is it prepared to do so, and if so, can it give a deadline for achieving this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	As my colleague Mr Sienot always says, what is not in the water is not necessary. Mr President, today I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. Let me be clear. The legislation on it may be complex, but for D66 one thing is clear: polluted sludge does not belong in our nature. But this land is now being taken from abroad on a large scale. This was not the intention of our legislation, was it? How is this possible? What about monitoring the imports of sludge? Are the requirements as strict as with Dutch sludge and is there sufficient control? It is very worrying that sometimes even waste is released. We fight hard against the plastic soup, but in the meantime we approve of throwing soil in the water with plastic waste. How is that possible? Why do plastic and waste have to be brought into nature? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she's going to deal with this problem. Why do we need to get caught up in the first place? To what extent is a puddle always useful? On one of my first visits as a Member of Parliament, I visited the Redichemse Waard. There was a question. If there is a good recreational function and a special ecosystem, do we not regard the partial collapse of such a deep lake as useful? "Protect, restore and promote the sustainable use of ecosystems. By 2020, we need to introduce measures to reduce imports of invasive alien species into land and water ecosystems and significantly reduce their impact." This quote is from the Sustainable Development Goal number 15. Despite the fact that the Netherlands supports these objectives, our policy does not seem to do so. D66 is concerned about the impact of this sludge on our nature. Ecologists warn about the use of foreign land. Do we have enough insight into what effect this has on ecology? Are we sure that the use of this land always benefits nature? Environmental chemist Joop Harmsen warns that foreign soil can be lime rich, which has a negative impact on water quality. It can also lead to more algae growth. Is the use of foreign land suitable for Dutch ecosystems? How does this sludge dump relate to plans to turn it into a recreational lake? In short, there is pollution with inadequate control and there are risks to ecology. Does the Secretary of State and D66 consider that imports of non-territorial sludge, i.e. foreign sludge, should be restricted? Rijkswaterstaat or the waterboard supervises whether the soil complies with the legal requirements. I find that curious. They are both supervisor and client and sometimes performer. Does the Secretary of State consider this a desirable division of roles? Doesn't this seem like a conflict of interest to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr Van Eijs asks whether there should be no measures to limit the use of foreign sludge. In addition, could it not be a direction of solution for setting ecological requirements for sludge in addition to toxicological requirements? Then we can avoid importing sludge with invasive species and sludge that does not match the ecology of the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	I think that would fit very well in the efforts of the Netherlands to keep invasive species out of the door and to maintain and perhaps improve ecosystems as best they can. It seems logical to me that we should also look at this aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	So, in addition to the toxicological requirements already set out in the EVOA Directive, you agree to include ecological requirements, which, for example, allow you to include invasive species and other aspects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	Yes, and I think it is very good that, as you yourself pointed out in your contribution, there may be a possibility of dumping calcium-rich land at one lake and not at the other. We need to look very carefully at what we're dumping and what it's doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mrs Van Eijs, you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. The demand for land is greater than national supply. That's not strange, because dragging away land is a lot of money to make, and dredging companies seem to have more eye for their wallets than for the consequences for nature. Does the Secretary of State agree with D66 that there is a wrong financial incentive here? The rule now is that the initiator may take up to ten years to complete the redesign. This increases the demand and urgency to accept foreign sludge or polluted sludge. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of extending this ten-year period? In 2009, at the request of the government, the Verheijen Commission issued an opinion on how the government should deal with the dumping of contaminated sludge in clean ponds. In view of the incidents, does the Secretary of State consider that this opinion has been well adopted or does it see room for improvement? To what extent are the current legal standards strict enough? If this is the result of the established standards, they may be tightened as far as D66 is concerned. Mr President, what we do not throw in the water, we do not need to take out. Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. Finally, Mr von Martels of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I keep my input partly in the slipstream of my colleagues, but still with a different perspective on things, because this subject requires some historical awareness. It's 2006 and the CDA roommates Bilder and Koppejan who doesn't know them? In addition, there is a need to take account of the social and technical risks associated with the problem of sub-soiling. Apparently, they were far ahead of their time, because in order to reduce the risks mentioned, a hand-out for deep puddles was only established in 2010. This provides a step-by-step answer to the question of how we in the Netherlands want to handle carefully the redesign of deep puddles and the use of soil and dredging for this purpose. However, it is very likely that this hand-out, especially after a Note soil management as part of the Soil Quality Decision, has been completely forgotten and in the background. Or is the task of indicating in municipal zoning plans by lake what development is desirable or undesirable, perhaps too complicated for many municipalities? Or have initiators forgotten the intention of the hand-off? Of course, you can do the latter. In any case, we believe that a re-examination is appropriate. Just one more passage from that 2010 hand-out: "It is possible to apply soil and dredging responsibly when refurbishing deep puddles. This requires an integrated approach by all parties involved, looking not only at soil and water, but also at other aspects of deep lakes, such as functions for nature, agriculture and recreation. (...) The Netherlands needs a good quality of soil and water, now and in the future. At the same time, we want to encourage the recovery of land and dredging to deal with raw materials in an economical manner. Moreover, the negative effects of transport of land and dredging over longer distances are prevented." So far, all from 2010. When you read this, of course, the question arises: how is it possible that the import of sludge and soil has taken place so massively in recent years? Why were the wise advice not followed at the time? If this had happened, we would not have had to have had this discussion today at all. After all, the hand-out is based on an area-specific approach based on soil and sludge usefully applied within the river basin. In addition, shortening transport distances played a major role. In practice, we see the opposite happening. The CDA is convinced that economics and ecology can go hand in hand, but that in a number of recent examples, as in Culemborg, the commercial interest has prevailed. I was therefore pleased with the letter from the Secretary of State yesterday, in which she indicated that she understood the concerns and wanted to make an evaluation. In any event, this evaluation will have to take into account the percentage of foreign soil. The aim should be to examine whether existing frameworks provide sufficient safeguards to achieve the desired impacts on nature and the environment. From the CDA we would like to give a few more points of interest for this evaluation. We understand that municipalities have a role to play around destinations of specific puddles. Is it possible for municipalities to fulfil this role properly? And what knowledge is expected of municipalities and is they sufficiently present? What can the Secretary of State do to ensure sufficient knowledge? Can the Secretary of State include in the evaluation how the quality of the samples is determined? Who takes the samples and how susceptible is this to fraud? Can the Secretary of State identify at which locations the Redichemse Waard belongs to it, since the hand-handling sludge has been deposited and how this process has been conducted? It seems to us desirable to take account of developments in the environmental law in the drafting of the evaluation. Finally, I would also like to know when we can expect this evaluation. Furthermore, I believe that this issue needs to be fully investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the Secretary of State and suspending the meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	I'll resume the meeting. The next item is a debate on the import and dumping of contaminated land from abroad. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, it is good to exchange views on this subject with each other. If you want to move a river and you have land over it, you have to be able to get rid of it somewhere, and if you want to make a sandwinput into a beautiful nature reserve, you need land for that. We all get that. But we do not want all kinds of accidents or perverse incentives to happen, or we do not want to know exactly what land is going to end up in these places. So I understand the concerns of the Chamber. Health and safety must be at the forefront, said Mr Ziengs. I couldn't agree more. In my view, that is also what the Chamber has said in its contribution. Take a good look at the regulatory framework. Is that enough to ensure safety and health? A number of specific questions have been asked. I'll get back to you on that. It's a set of rules. The Soil Quality Decision contains rules to ensure that safety and health are ensured, but I want to know if they are sufficiently sharp. Then I will also look at any financial incentives, as they were called. If you're gonna mix up the ground, don't you think there's gonna be an incentive to do it differently? Doesn't the ten-year period create a sucking effect of sludge abroad, when, if you just look closely at it, we would have enough of our own material, if that period weren't so sharp? I'm gonna take a look at that. I will return to all these points in a moment. When we talk about this file, safety and health are paramount. We are always careful in this Chamber with European headlines. Let us also be careful here with European pits. So I will also look closely at what the countries around us are doing about regulation, so that we haven't organized it quite differently here again, which could be another incentive to steer it towards the Netherlands. A lot of suggestions have been made to include in the evaluation. I'd be happy to. In addition to what I said in the letter, I would like to mention a number of points which I would like to deal with in particular. Some of your members have asked for attention to be paid to the foreign material, such as plastic. I think Mrs Van Eijs was the one who went into that. So it may be that at a shallow ground we see at one time that a lot of plastic washes up. It was about 20%. The municipality may also deviate from that. I really think that we should whether that is really desirable in this way. So very specifically, I'm going to look at that 20% foreign material. I grew up in the Uiterwaarden myself. There you had along the Waal large stone factories. They stopped the activities at some point. Then you see a river development. Then a piece of the old industrial estate becomes a side trench. You'll have the ground over there. There's pieces of brick in there. This is covered by foreign material, but that's a lot different from the fact that you see a lot of plastic coming by at once. That is why I think we really need to look at that very closely. What are these definitions like? What's with the amount? What about the possibilities to deviate from that? I'd like to get a good look at that. Then, of course, we have the issue of the supervision of parties, land or dredging. A number of you have also asked questions about this. How are the reports assessed? Are there enough samples being done? How do we do that with the national transports, but also with the international transports? What are these accreditations like? All the points I think are good to take a look at. Are sufficient samples taken? Do we have a good view of the standard documents in those certification institutions abroad? All the points I would like to look at in the evaluation and mentioned by your Chamber. The very specific question was who checks for invasive species, or that, for example, such a pH value of the soil is not disruptive when applied in a puddle at a certain point. Rijkswaterstaat or the waterboard under which the shallowness falls, see to that. If Rijkswaterstaat is the contractor itself, then that was also a question from Mr Laçin.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So in itself we have double caps there, but it remains in width just important to be sharp here on the whole system and to see where there would still be reason to sharpen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	I just wanted to ask a question about the samples the Secretary of State mentioned. 'Cause I've done a little research on it, and I've been given information. This shows that of over 2,500 shiploads with more than 3 million tonnes of foreign land, no sample of Rijkswaterstaat is known. That's the information I have. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if that's true. If not, what are the numbers she has?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	You are sometimes asked by the thorough homework of MPs to know by heart how many samples Rijkswaterstaat has done. I could imagine that it was the ILT that would have done that, because it oversees the international transports. But I'd be happy to check this out. I will see if I can answer that in the second term; otherwise I will see if I can come back to this in the evaluation and the letter. Then there was also the very specific question of who actually decides whether it is useful enough to avoid such a puddle. Mrs Kröger mentioned a fine example, in which there are icebirds and otters. Yeah, well, do you have to go upstairs? Rijkswaterstaat and the waterboard supervise this. So there's always a key on it. It's not like every puddle always needs to be drowned out. A plan must be drawn up, it must always be good for ecology, it must be net positive, but Rijkswaterstaat and the waterboard also monitor this. That's the information I have on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	The Secretary of State states that Rijkswaterstaat and the water authority are responsible for this. That is good to hear, but in Culemborg we know that the local population and also the municipalities may have their own opinion. So does this include the opinion of local residents or other stakeholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	That's a very fair question. That is also one of the points I would like to look at. Right now, it's gonna go down through a report. As part of the evaluation, I would therefore like to see whether this should not be a licence, because it will allow more participation and give people more insight into what is happening in their environment. That is also one of the points I want to take into account in the evaluation. Because I can imagine that you don't need a whole permit for every ground transfer right away. However, in the case of large-scale projects, this could perhaps be the case. So that too is one of the points I want to examine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	Before you continue, Mrs Kröger has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have a question about the ecological impact. The Secretary of State began her reaction by saying that safety and health are the parameters to be met by the land we import. It is now clear that environmental conditions are also set in the assessment of whether or not to be ignored. What I am looking for is actually how, in addition to safety and health, the impact on ecology can be secured, both in the dredging that we import and in the decision to swallow. Can the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	Yes, Mr. Chairman. When we make a decision whether you can use that dredging soil to shallow deep pools, it must clearly contribute to the natural values. So there's a link there. You also see very often that it is the right State Forestry or Natural Monuments that ask for a shelter, because they want to achieve ecological added value somewhere. But that test is very important. Mrs Kröger had also asked the question about ecological requirements, in addition to the chemical requirements we make. They're already part of the test. Environmental requirements are therefore already being imposed on the assessment of whether it is permitted, yes or no. But I understand Mrs Kröger's question in such a way: if you look at the composition of that land, do you look at the ecological effects of applying this land to this place, and what does that shelter do at all? I'd like to take that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	That is exactly what we are looking for, that, in addition to safety and health, this ecological impact is really taken into account in the parameters of policy from the first step, and that it then continues to work, both in the dredging that is imported or used and in the decision to do or not to do so. I hope to see that reflected in policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	Sure. That also affects the next point I wanted to take the Chamber into. The more and the better we can measure, the sharper we can, of course, maintain. There is therefore an improved environmental review framework under development. That would come with the Environment Act. I'm just trying to see if maybe we can speed things up. Of course, it has to be robust before we can apply it, but we are also looking at ways of making use of technological developments. We are looking at the ten-year period to avoid perverse incentives. I just mentioned the permit. Then there was a question about the role of the municipalities. They were asked if they had sufficient knowledge. In addition, I will see if there is anything else that we can support with knowledge and skills. In itself, Rijkswaterstaat and the water boards often have all this knowledge, but let's also see if the application of that knowledge is guaranteed enough in consultation with the municipalities and the various roles. Then there's the hand-out and the report from Verheijen. In 2009, the Verheijen Commission, at the request of the government, issued an opinion on how the government should handle the landfill. The manual contains a method for an integral preparation. That advice was taken on its own. The Environment Act will also include the latest scientific insights, but I will also carry out an evaluation. I will evaluate whether the points in this hand-out are really all taken into account and whether there is still reason to anchor things differently or better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	I hear all kinds of interesting information, including that the Secretary of State grew up in the vicinity of the floodplains. But we are talking about other values, that of nature and the environment. We can make this debate as easy as it really is. In 2010, the hand-out you just mentioned came from the government. Why wasn't that maintained? Why have these action points not been respected? That's all I care about. We would not have had to have had this debate. That is the central question. Then you won't have to think about what to do in the future. The hand-out is already pointing in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	The hand-out is well known by both the initiators and the competent authority. All the initiatives that started after the publication of the circular have also worked according to my information in accordance with that circular. This also makes the implementation of the duty of care more manageable, and has really produced a quality impact. Nevertheless, we can see in some places that plastic washes up on the beach for example. Then you wonder if that 20% foreign material is something we want in this way. So this hand-out is very important. Luckily, it's handled well. We will certainly continue to see to that. At the same time, there are a number of points which give cause for further evaluation of whether, for example, the ten-year period does not have an aspirant effect towards foreign countries that we would not like, et cetera. But the hand-out is crucial, and you are right to emphasise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	We are very different about this, and we believe that this hand-out has been well handled. The opposite has happened. The hand-out has not been taken up. As a result, all this has taken place in recent years. A lot of dirt has come from abroad to the Netherlands. It was precisely in the hand-out that it was to be avoided. It did happen. In that sense, therefore, it has not been complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	Then the question is always why the specific point you mentioned is going in a different way. That is why I think it would be a good idea, for example, to look at the ten-year period, but I think we can agree that we want this hand-out to be respected very well. Let us look at the incentives that are now leading to this being known in certain areas but which, in your opinion, are still not being complied with. We absolutely do. Mr Laçin and Mr Ziengs asked in how many cases and where there has been a deepening and how many cases there are with land from abroad. There are a total of 55 rooms in progress and preparation. A total of around 4 million cubic metres of foreign land and dredging were imported from 2010. This is not only for shallow urination; this is also in other applications. All applied parties are centrally reported at the soil quality reporting point. The quality of the material must always comply with the requirements of the Soil Quality Decision. Those are the rules we have. Once again, I said that I think there is reason to reconsider these rules on a number of points and also to see whether they are tight enough compared to abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	In reply, I hear the Secretary of State say a lot about the standard. The PVV has just asked if the Secretary of State is prepared to force companies to zero. We understand that zero is not always feasible, but I believe that this should be the commitment of the companies. In any case, they should also be encouraged in how they are going to do their best to achieve this, so that the standard does not simply become a target instead of being as close to zero as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr Van Aalst specifically mentioned the obligation to minimise. You actually want as little as possible instead of filling up to the standard. That is one of the points I would like to take with me in the evaluation. Mr President, I hope that I have now been able to answer the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	In response to the answers, I have a specific question on the foreign material, particularly plastics. To what extent does the Secretary of State take the growing scientific knowledge about the breakdown of plastics into microplastics? So there's more than just big pieces of plastic. It is also really long-term in our soil, our water and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mrs Kröger is quite right to draw attention to this. When we think about how we deal with that definition and with that amount of foreign material, we will absolutely have to look at it, because if you know that the plastics may not be visible anymore but are still in the soil and could spread through groundwater, you are talking about a different problem than if you think they are stuck there. So we'll take this with us. Thank you for this alertness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u50	In view of what we now know about microplastics, wouldn't the exclusion of plastic from the foreign material be the logical follow-up? Because this is not about bricks but plastics, where there is always the risk of microplastics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u51	I'm willing to look into that. I would point out, however, that, as Mr Ziengs said, land is never 100% clean. So I have to give a profit warning as to whether we can rule out this 100% and whether that is real, but I am prepared to look at this as part of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u52	I have also asked a more general question in my speech. I can imagine that the Secretary of State may not have an answer to that at the moment. I was referring to waste that was landfilled in the past. Apparently, 600,000 places have ever been depicted at that point. The intention was to get that under control in the direction of 2030. I didn't really get an answer to that. I can also imagine that this cannot happen all of a sudden, but it would be nice to receive some information about it, perhaps for debates that are still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u53	Yeah, I should have mentioned that. Some of you have asked a rather specific question about specific numbers or specific locations. We will see if we can get back to those points in the letter I will send you, in which I will also address the general evaluation, as I explained it. We will certainly take Mr Ziengs' point with us. I thank him for giving me the space to do so at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u54	I also specifically asked about the incident with the new sea dike at Perkpolder in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. There it has been found that the land used is more polluted than the documents show. What happens to that situation now? Has a fine been imposed and how do we prevent this particular company's practices from happening more often? Could the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u55	In my view, this is a subject which is of a different order than that which we are debating. I can see if I can say a little more to Mr Laçin in the second term about the specific situation in the Perkpolder. Otherwise, I would be happy to return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u56	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Then we'll continue with the second term of office. First, I give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the impression, like the Secretary of State, that we all want to go a little bit in the same direction. I hear from all sides that we need to limit and we need to set limits where we can. I'm glad the Secretary of State is going to carry out an evaluation and then see if there's any need for actualization. We strongly believe that this is the case. That is why I would like to table one motion to help the Secretary of State on his way to this actualization. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent years millions of tonnes of contaminated soil and sludge have been imported from abroad and dumped in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that residents and environmental experts are concerned about pollution of soil and sludge;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State indicates that the framework of current laws and rules is to be examined and updated as necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to use, in its evaluation and updating, the reuse of the cleanest possible soil at the time of sinking, if available from its own environment, and to limit to a maximum contaminated soil and sludge from abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-426]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the clear picture she gave of how she is going to do the evaluation, taking a lot of commitments about the concern of the House of Representatives into account. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the exploitation of sand and gravel leaves large gaps in the landscape;]] [[Whereas this creates social, environmental and economic risks and opportunities;]] [[noting that there is sometimes a lack of a long-term plan and post-mining situation when an exploitation permit is issued;]] [[calls on the Government, together with local authorities, to develop policies and regulations to ensure that when a permit is issued for the exploitation of sand and gravel, a post-mining plan is also developed, which selects the best social and environmental content and, if necessary, pays for it from the profits of exploitation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that dumping of dredging and land into wells may have positive and negative effects;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the toxicological quality of the soil, soil species, composition and biological content, such as invasive species, may also be affected;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt new guidelines in the policy evaluation, taking into account other factors affecting the ecology and quality of soil and water, in addition to the toxicological quality of soil to be landfilled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-427]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-428]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u60	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u61	Mr. Chairman. I believe that today we have expressed a broad shared feeling in the Chamber, namely the view that we are all not happy with the current practice. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to include so many different points in the evaluation. I think it's going to be a very good evaluation! I am particularly pleased that she is going to see how the financial incentives might be taken out of it, including the ten-year period, and how we can include residents in these projects. The Secretary of State has made a commitment on plastic, but I will still table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that plastic waste has been released in some places at the time of urinating;]] [[Whereas plastic in our living environment causes damage to nature and we want to combat plastic soup;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how plastic in sludge can be prevented by regulation and/or enforcement, and to inform the Court of Justice further about this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the intentions she has expressed. However, I would like to give her two more hand-outs in the form of two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for IenW is to carry out an evaluation of the frameworks surrounding the use of soil and dredging soil to avoid deep puddles;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify, at least with the Redichemse Waard, the sites at which sludge has been deposited or is about to be deposited in the short term and how this process has been conducted;]] [[In addition, calls on the evaluation to consider the role of municipalities around destinations of specific puddles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u63	The other motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2010 a hand-handling operation of deep puddles was prepared and this step-by-step response to the question of how we in the Netherlands want to handle carefully the redesign of deep puddles and the use of soil and dredging for them;]] [[Considering that we must avoid reinventing the wheel during the government's evaluation;]] [[calls on the Government to consider in the evaluation the extent to which this hand-out is used and to review this hand-out in the light of the results of the evaluation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u64	I'm reopening the meeting. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the motion in part No. Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. They call on the government to use, in the evaluation and updating, the reuse of the cleanest possible soil at the time of disposal, if available from its own environment, and to limit to a maximum contaminated soil and sludge from abroad. In itself, the effort is at maximum limits at odds with free trade. But if I may interpret the motion in such a way that I will see how I can make the use of the soil present in the environment, so re-use, more attractive compared to imports, then I am happy to investigate it. Then I could leave the motion to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u66	The motion in part No. 426 gets judgment, Room. Mr Laçin has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u67	I am pleased with the judgment; let me put it first. Limiting the maximum seems very good to us, because then you limit the import of contaminated land from abroad. I thought you also wrote something in that direction in the letter. But if you say you want to look into this and investigate it, I can live with it and I'm happy with the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u68	Thank you. I would indeed like to see how I can make re-use more attractive to imports. If I may interpret the motion in this way, and I see to Mr Laçin and Mrs Kröger that that is the case, then I shall leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u69	There is also a question from Mr Van Aalst about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u70	I'm still having second thoughts. In my opinion, we agree fairly freely that we do not want that polluted land from abroad. You state that this must be possible given the freedom of trade. Can you not limit this to the maximum by simply making the legislation very tight and enforcing it? I don't think it'll come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u71	I am going to look within the framework that I am set by maintaining free trade and see what I can do to make re-use more attractive to imports. But there are limits to that, too. That is what I wanted to say in my judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u72	The motion in part No. 427.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u73	Then the motion to part No. 427 by Mrs Kröger and Mr Laçin. The motion rightly says: if you're going to excavate something, then make a plan for development afterwards. I can also go a long way with this motion. I would like to interpret only the last point 'where necessary is financed from profits from exploitation' in such a way that I look at the possibilities for financing by the entrepreneur. Maybe things have already been arranged. I could get in touch with Mrs Kröger, if she so wishes, about the modification of that last sentence. Because "if necessary, it is financed from the profits of exploitation" I literally cannot support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mrs Kröger, there is a suggestion for a change to the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u75	Yes, and I can imagine that suggestion. So I can also imagine that we are making a change here, which is more about: because the possibility is being examined of how to finance the profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u76	The entrepreneur who digs a piece, of course, also has a responsibility. That's part of his business. So let us look at how this system works and what we would then like to include in the amended motion. But if you do an excavation, we share the point that it is important that you also have a plan for afterwards and that the costs end up with the person responsible. Maybe you can change the motion that way. If we come to an agreement on this, it can also be given a Chamber of Appeal. I think that's gonna work out when I see this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u77	The motion in part No. 427 is changed along the line just as between the Secretary of State and Mrs Kröger and can then be judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u78	Then Mrs Kröger and Mrs Van Eijs ask in the motion for a resolution on item No. 428 to consider other factors affecting ecology and quality of water and soil. I am prepared to include this in the evaluation and see what the possibilities are. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u79	The motion in part No. 428 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u80	Then the motion to part No. 429 by Mrs Van Eijs. If I may interpret it in such a way as to see as much as possible how plastic can be prevented in sludge, then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. We must be careful that we are not too absolute, because we are dealing with large quantities of land. As Mr Ziengs said, 'absolutely clean' is a difficult concept. But if I may interpret the motion as "as much as possible," then I am prepared to include it in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u81	I would never ask the Secretary of State to do the impossible, so as far as I'm concerned, she can interpret it as: as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u82	Good. The motion in part No. 429 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion by Mr von Martels of the CDA on item No. 430, to consider the role of municipalities in the evaluation. This, too, I am happy to do. I could take over the motion, or I'll leave her to the judgment of Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u84	I'll take a look at the petitioner. The motion may be taken over unless one of the members objects. That is not the case. Then the motion will be taken over and not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u85	Then there is the next motion by Mr von Martels, on item No. 431, to assess in the evaluation the extent to which this hand-out is used or not and to re-examine, if necessary, the hand-out in the light of the results. Mr President, I could also accept that motion. Otherwise, I'll leave her to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u86	The proposal is to take over the motion. Is there any objection to that? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u87	Finally, there was a question from Mr Laçin. On Mr Ziengs' question, I promised that we would come back to it in the letter on evaluation. Mr Laçin's question was specifically about Perkpolder. Has there been a fine imposed? Yeah, there's an administrative trajectory. ILT imposed a penalty payment on the company that delivered the TGG in Perkpolder. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u88	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u89	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
