ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u1	The next item is the debate on the statements by the Foreign Minister. I am the first to give the Foreign Minister the floor to make a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to make this statement. You may know that I stand here with a heavy heart. I have been active in national politics for more than eleven years and today I have to answer for the remotest mistake I have made in my entire career. I have told an event that I find of great significance, as if I were on the spot, when that was not the case. The fact that I wanted to tell the story with force without having to mention my source in this way has clearly been a wrong choice. I shouldn't have done that, and I'm very sorry. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the credibility of the Foreign Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. This credibility must be beyond any doubt, both domestic and foreign. This is the only way I can operate abroad without hesitation. Only in this way can I fully and fully defend the interests of all citizens and businesses in the Netherlands and in Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. And only in this way can I serve the interests of the whole Kingdom. I have done this with heart and soul since my arrival, just as I intended to do in the years to come. Mr. Chairman. We are privileged to live in a country where the truth is important, a country where a falsehood is not swept away, but leads to a debate, to a moment like this. I hope you know me as someone who is straightforward and open. In the same way, I have chosen to deal with this unfortunate and entirely self-induced issue. In order not to burden the office of Foreign Minister, I see no other option than to offer my resignation today to His Majesty the King. I do so with regret in my heart, but in the full conviction that the Netherlands deserves a foreign minister who is above all doubt and who can carry out without hesitation the important task given to him or her. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few years, I have been given responsibility for the administration of this country in many roles. I'm grateful for that. I've done it with great pleasure and dedication. I would have liked my ministry to have gone differently. I was full of energy and plans. We were good, I dare say, out of the starting blocks. I would like to thank everyone with whom I have worked over the last few months, including here in your Chamber, for this cooperation, and especially the people in the Department of Foreign Affairs, an exceptional working environment with very dedicated, capable and very loyal people, an environment which I have been able to manage with great pleasure but unfortunately far too short. They were of great support to me and I am sure that they will be so for my successor. There is nothing left for me but to wish you, your Chamber and my successor every success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u3	I thank you for making this statement and suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u4	I'd like everyone to sit down. These are the hard and uncomfortable moments. I shall first give the floor to Mr De Roon as the applicant for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Foreign Minister has just announced his resignation in a dignified speech. I think that's a good decision. He has also fully attributed that to himself. Then, as far as I am concerned, there is no need for further debate on this matter today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u6	Clear. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u7	Mr. Chairman. We had asked for a debate with the Prime Minister, but after what has just happened, I do not think it is appropriate to hold a debate with the Prime Minister at the moment. Probably at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u8	Mr President, I support Mr De Roon. Sometimes it's stronger to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u9	Mr. Chairman. We do have a number of questions for the Prime Minister, but whether this is the time to do so... As far as we're concerned, we don't have to. That is why we support Mr De Roon's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u10	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor in a moment. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u11	Mr. Chairman. I have great respect for the way Halbe Zijlstra has just made his speech here and made a difficult decision. I think that's good. At the same time, of course, questions remain about the role played by the Prime Minister. As far as I am concerned, they do not have to answer now, because I can tell everyone that after that speech there is a need to take a break. But I would appreciate it if it could be done at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I like to agree with the words of Louis Asscher. We have heard Mr Zijlstra. We understand his decision. We also understand that, as far as we are concerned, it is not necessarily the time to ask the Prime Minister the questions that do exist. However, we would like to propose that we do so at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u13	I do not understand this complacency of the Chamber at all. The Prime Minister has known for weeks of the unacceptable lies of the Foreign Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u14	Sir...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u15	...and hasn't done anything. I do want a debate with Mark Rutte. I do want to know how it was possible for all this to continue behind the scenes, behind the curtains. This can't be happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u16	Mr. Chairman. We, too, had the necessary questions, including to the Prime Minister, but after the speech by the Foreign Minister, we do not need to have that debate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u17	Mr President, we too have expressly asked for the Prime Minister's presence. We absolutely have questions for him, but that debate does not necessarily need to be held today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u18	Mr President, you can imagine that the head of me and my party may be the least in favour of a debate, but there has been a request from the Chamber for a debate with two directors. Apparently, everyone had questions for the Prime Minister, too. And even if a ruler announces his resignation, I think this is the time to continue this debate with the Prime Minister. If people want to do so at a later time than they do now, my party will not support it. As far as we're concerned, we're just doing it now. And if the need for it isn't so great, I'm okay with it. But then we will not support a debate later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u19	Madam President, for the sake of short, I agree with Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u20	Mr President, D66 also joins Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u21	And so is the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u22	So the majority is in favour of holding a debate today. Mr. Buma?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u23	I'd like to explain. You are now saying that there is a wish for a debate. For me, what Mr Dijkhoff said earlier is true. A bit of a twilight situation is now being created, as if it might be returned at a later moment. In a situation where this resignation of the Minister is concerned, I think that is wrong. It's either one or the other. If there are questions to ask the Prime Minister now and if one thinks that there should be a debate, then it should be now. If that is not the case, I do not think you can do it later. In that sense, therefore, I would like to amend that. In my view, there is no wish for a debate among these four parties. But if others want it, for example 30 Members, then it has to be now, and not suddenly, because I do not think that that is right to the seriousness of this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u24	Following Mr Buma's comment, I would like to leave everyone on the other side to respond again to the proposal. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u25	Mr. Chairman. I have indicated that we still have a number of questions, but if that is the view of the coalition, I am quite prepared to ask them now. Then you'll have the inconvenience of this emotional event, too, but that's up to the coalition. I have no objection to doing it at another time. It's okay with me now or later. When I hear Dijkhoff say that he prefers the debate now, I am prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u26	Mr President, for the record, I do not want a debate on this today, nor at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u27	Clear. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u28	Mr. Chairman. This debate will also be about credibility. Ex-Minister Zijlstra has just spoken fine words about this. As far as we are concerned, the request remains that we have a number of questions for the Prime Minister. Given the emotion of the moment, we do not want that debate today, but at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u29	Madam President, given the emotions at the moment, I would prefer a debate tomorrow, but if the government parties absolutely do not want that, then still today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u30	Mr. Chairman. As far as the SGP Group is concerned, the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been a worthy and responsible one. We do not need to discuss this with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u31	Mr President, as far as we are concerned, there will certainly be a debate. If the coalition parties want to stop that or actually say "it's now or not," then it has to be now, but rather tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u32	Mr President, I agree with that. Given the moment, as far as we're concerned, it doesn't have to be today. If it's now or not, then now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u33	What matters is that the Prime Minister could have prevented much unnecessary damage to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u34	Mr. Baudet, do you support the request or not? The content will be discussed when the debate begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u35	Yes, I am glad that the President is certainly anticipating the debate which should indeed begin as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u36	Mr. Chairman. Because it stays in the middle, I want to be clear. As far as we are concerned, the debate is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u37	Then there is a majority in favour of holding a debate today. I would therefore like to make the proposal to keep it. Shall I suspend for a short time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u38	Mr President, on a point of order. Then I'd like to request a half-hour suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u39	I see that everyone agrees to that. Then I'll suspend the sitting for half an hour and then we'll move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u40	I'm reopening the meeting. We will continue with the debate on the foreign minister's statement, but we are now doing so with the Prime Minister. I'd like to welcome him to section K. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u41	Mr President, thank you very much. I think it was inevitable that the Foreign Minister had just resigned. As my colleague De Roon has said, he has done so in a dignified manner. And I say again, the Minister himself said that it was only his fault. I therefore really only have one question in this part of the debate with the Prime Minister. According to the replies of the former Foreign Minister, former Minister Zijlstra informed the Prime Minister in the week of 29 January. We don't know exactly what day, but it was the week of January 29th. If I'm right, it's been about three weeks. What I don't understand is why the Prime Minister didn't immediately inform the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives should have known about this. The Prime Minister should have sent a note to the House of Representatives saying: I have just spoken to the Foreign Minister and he has said that his story was not correct about his presence in the Dathya of Prime Minister Putin or President Putin. And it should have been written in that letter that he had added to that story all other texts that were threatening and even exciting as far as I am concerned. The room should have known that. The Chamber controls the cabinet. Why didn't the Prime Minister do that? It's not a VVD conversation, Madam President! It is not two VVDs who decide what should and should not be reported to the Chamber. These are servants of the Crown. It's not a VVD cabinet. They are two VVD ministers, but they are servants of the Crown and they are here, in the Lower House, to answer for their policies. I understand that the Prime Minister used as an argument: yes, but the Foreign Minister had told me that he would soon put things right in an interview with the Volkskrant. But, Mr President, that does not, of course, relieve the Prime Minister of reporting. He should have just reported that, here in the House of Representatives, so that we could have had a debate on this. Why is that important, Madam President? This is not only a matter of state law, but it is also important because it concerned the foreign minister whose entire policy was aimed at anti-Russian rhetoric. I will not repeat this debate; we will do so once with the new Foreign Minister. But if that important anti-Russia rhetoric of the former Foreign Minister is based on falsehoods, then that policy should not last a day longer. That is why we should have known this and I do not think it is acceptable that this Prime Minister did not tell us. And that is why I ask him to explain it a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut. No, Mrs Marijnissen, on behalf of the SP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Today, a minister resigned. We just heard that. We understand that decision. A minister who lies is wrong, but a foreign minister who challenges the credibility of the Netherlands is unacceptable. We naturally understand Mr Zijlstra's decision. Of course there's a personal component to that, a sad component. We just saw it, too. But there's also a political component to it. That is why we also have a number of questions to the Prime Minister. As far as we are concerned, we did not necessarily have to discuss them now. It could possibly have been tomorrow or next week. But if the coalition says it has to now, then we are asking those questions now. The next question is, of course, still on the table. In the first reaction yesterday morning, our Prime Minister said that our Foreign Minister's lying was wrong, but that the content stands. So our first question to the Prime Minister is: does he still think the content is there? And what exactly is this content about the Prime Minister? Then there's my second question. The Prime Minister says: the mistake was that the Foreign Minister lied, but the contents state. In doing so, the Prime Minister also indicated that Mr Zijlstra could stay on as far as he was concerned. Does that mean that the Prime Minister is actually saying that lying isn't the problem? And does that mean that the Prime Minister says you can lie? We have indeed read that the Prime Minister was informed by Mr Zijlstra in the week of 29 January. The question remains, of course, the following. Why did the Prime Minister wait for the boldness of a Volkskrantjournalist who finally said: if you don't talk now, then I'm going to publish? Why didn't the Prime Minister immediately inform the Chamber when he was aware of the lie? Finally, we would also like to know from the Prime Minister what this does with the credibility of the Netherlands. We have a minister who is fiercely disdained against fake news, especially from Russia, and we have now been dealing with a foreign minister who has used the summum of fake news, namely the classic lie. What does that mean in the eyes of our Prime Minister for the credibility of the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Finally, one final question. Mr Zijlstra has already told this story about Putin at a party congress of the VVD. The question to the Prime Minister is: was it true that the Prime Minister, at that time in office as political leader of the VVD, was not aware at that time of the possible incorrectness of Mr Zijlstra's story? And did that play another role in any other way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u44	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u45	Mr. Chairman. Halbe Zijlstra has just resigned his ministry. As far as the DENK Group is concerned, he has done so rightly and in a dignified manner. It was impossible for him to stay on without any authority and any credibility, both nationally and internationally. As far as we are concerned, the debate will be about the credibility and prestige of politics and about the thump that Dutch people have had in politics for the umpteenth time, after Opstelden, after Teeven and after Van der Steur. Mr. Chairman. We all know now that Zijlstra has quit because of what he himself called the biggest mistake in his political career, namely the lie he told about the meeting with Putin. The Prime Minister was aware of this lie since January 29, almost a month ago. The question to the Prime Minister is: why did he keep this secret? Why did he keep this under his hat? What exactly did he share with Zijlstra? And why didn't he encourage the ex-minister to inform the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the damage of such lies is not limited to the person of Zijlstra or the VVD. These kinds of lies create enemy thinking in politics, which brings countries and people against each other. These lies also create fear in our society. These lies create gaps in society, manipulate citizens and influence public opinion. People are being turned against each other. Mr. Chairman. D66 doesn't go free either. Alexander Pechtold said: I have yet to meet the first Russian to correct his own mistakes. A statement of improbable sadness. A shocking and, in fact, a simple racist statement. It is right that Pechtold has been reported. Mr. Chairman. We remember very well that Minister Ollongren warned the Netherlands about fake news from Russia. But for fake news you don't just have to point to Russia, because no matter how painful, we had an ex-minister who did it. What is certain is that the VVD has caused enormous damage to the reputation of Dutch foreign policy, because from the New York Times to Reuters, the whole world writes that our minister acknowledges that he has lied. Mr President, concluding. The international reputation of the Netherlands as a country of diplomacy has taken a huge blow. This also applies to our ambassadors, diplomats and officials working abroad. Those people, that day in, day out, do their best to defend the interests of the Netherlands, are now also confronted with a lying ex-minister. It'll stay that way for a while. I'm left with two simple questions. How will the Prime Minister save the reputation of the Netherlands in the diplomatic world? And how are we going to give as soon as possible the presidency of the Netherlands in the UN Security Council, which is now coming? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u47	Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group appreciates and respects the way in which Mr Zijlstra has just drawn his conclusions from the situation in which he, and he himself, had come to his senses. Now the prime minister's in "K." We had and still have a number of questions to him about this affair, but we would have preferred to ask him this afternoon's emotions tomorrow. But for now the coalition has more or less forced the debate, so we are raising the questions now. We start two years ago, in May 2016, when Mr Zijlstra, in his role as group chairman of the VVD, came to a congress of that party with the story of his presence in a conversation with Mr Putin. The Prime Minister was in the Chamber when Mr Zijlstra opened a booklet on the Russian threat. What did the Prime Minister do with that information? Has he asked Mr Zijlstra for further explanations? And who did he then discuss this important geopolitical issue with? Or does the Prime Minister not agree afterwards with Mr Zijlstra that these were words of great geopolitical significance? Mr Van der Veer has now made it clear that he sees Mr Putin's statements to the Minister in a historical perspective. His e-mail to the Volkskrant is clear about that. But the Minister spoke of "words of great political significance." He subsequently tried to justify this by giving detailed answers to the current situation and events in recent years. He did that on behalf of the cabinet. But the Prime Minister cannot seriously believe that we are going to attach great geopolitical importance to statements from 2006 afterwards. Mr. Chairman. I refer to Mr Van der Veer's interpretation of what he has told the Minister. Against that background, we have a pressing question for the Prime Minister. Does he still support yesterday's reaction that we should assess Minister Zijlstra's statements on the content and that this content is not under discussion? Does the Prime Minister want to repeat that here today with the knowledge of today? Or has that communication from Mr Van der Veer been a reason to advise Mr Zijlstra to stop? I also refer to today's publication in the Volkskrant. Moreover, I am interested in what it means to have this Prime Minister's confidence, especially when it comes to trusting his own VVDs. Often this is the best guarantee that they have to leave the next day. And can the Prime Minister also tell us why he believes that the Chamber could wait for publication in the Volkskrant when it comes to lies from a minister in his cabinet? Why, after confessing his lie, did he not immediately inform the Chamber of this matter together with the Minister, knowing that the leaking of that information could have extremely damaging consequences for the reputation of the Netherlands abroad? Or is it perhaps new policy that the Chamber will be informed through the media in future, as it now appears? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u48	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u49	Mr. Chairman. I think it's fair Halbe Zijlstra offered his resignation today. That's personally incredibly nasty and unfortunate for him. You could see that, too. I personally find it a pity for him because you saw that he did it with great pleasure and indeed had made a good start. The reason why I am standing here and why I think there should be a debate is that this matter was not just about Zijlstra's personal mistake, as we all do. This case also touched and gained weight in foreign policy. I therefore think it is important that we should discuss these matters with each other in this Parliament. And if it has to be now, then it has to be now. Mr. Chairman. The reason why it is important to ask the Prime Minister is that yesterday he felt that Minister Zijlstra could remain credible and that he had just said that he understood the decision, but still felt that it had not been a mortal sin. This raises questions about the Prime Minister's assessment of the consequences of Zijlstra's anecdote. This is important because our relationship with Russia has been extremely sensitive since the invasion of Crimea, since the conflict in eastern Ukraine, of course and in particular for this Prime Minister about the case of the downed MH17, and finally because of the existing concerns about disinformation and incorrect reporting that would be spread by the Russian State. If, on behalf of the cabinet, on behalf of the Kingdom, statements are made about President Putin and they are given weight to it yesterday, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister gave relevance and weight to this 2006 anecdote, which was told in 2016, then it is important to know whether the Prime Minister still maintains that it was relevant today. My first questions to the Prime Minister are therefore about the provision of information to the Chamber. The answers to the written questions say that the Chamber was not informed because of the Minister's intended openness. The question that comes with this is: what consideration does it make that intended openness can replace informing the Chamber? The second question is: how long should this intended openness have lasted? We know that openness has only come under pressure from De Volkskrant, at least that is the suggestion I read in De Volkskrant, but I would like to leave this to the Prime Minister. My next questions are about the Prime Minister's quote: "It was unwise, but it was relevant information that came to his attention." Does the Prime Minister think that this information, which is anecdote, is relevant to the Dutch government even today? Does the Prime Minister still insist that this information is correct? What has the Prime Minister done since he was informed to verify that information at the source of Mr Zijlstra or at the third party mentioned by Mr Zijlstra? Does it or does it not mean anything to the foreign policy of the Netherlands? In this context, I ask the same questions about Minister Ollongren's statement that Zijlstra's message was true. On what basis did she find that that message was true? Does the Prime Minister still think it was? Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to answer the question of how he intends to remove the damage which, at least in my view, has caused to the Netherlands. What role does he see for himself in correcting the image that was created consciously yesterday, namely that this is such relevant geopolitical information that Zijlstra's action was unwise, but clearly justified, for no mortal sin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought it was an impressive speech from the Foreign Minister. I thought it was brave. He did it the way we know him: straight forward. He has made a decision, including the only decision that was necessary in this situation. Let me be very clear. For my group, it was not a question of whether he wanted to apologize for the mistake that was made. Everyone makes mistakes. If people apologize for that, you should also be open to it and people deserve a second chance. Why my group was so extremely critical of what Mr Zijlstra did, is that it was not a mistake that you can just fix. It was about the confidence he would still enjoy as Foreign Minister and thus his effectiveness as Minister. I am pleased that he has considered that he is no longer able to act effectively as Foreign Minister and that he has therefore resigned from office. As I indicated earlier in the regulation today, I find it extremely uncomfortable to stand here. It was an emotional moment. The Prime Minister has also indicated that he cares about it, because it concerns someone he has worked with for a long time and with whom he has a special connection. I would have liked to have the debate at another time, but I also fully understand the desire to debate this tonight. That is why I will also ask the Prime Minister some questions. For us, in this case, the Prime Minister's assessment is most relevant that this is not a mortal sin. That goes back to the end of January, when Mr Zijlstra informed the Prime Minister of this interview in the Volkskrant. I would like to know exactly what the Prime Minister heard at the time and how he assessed that case. Yesterday, when we read this message and saw the defence of the cabinet and of the coalition parties, such as Mr Pechtold, who said to appreciate the frankness of the minister, and of the CDA colleague, who said that recognizing mistakes is important, we understood that, but we could not fully understand why this is the line of defence to continue supporting the Foreign Minister on this issue. With this lie, you have, as it were, given Putin a joker who stands in the way of good diplomatic traffic. This can be used against the Netherlands at any time. That is why I would like to know from the Prime Minister why he did not make any other valuation of this information which was known to him on 29 January. Why wasn't the assessment that this had to be shared with the House of Representatives and wasn't the assessment that this was a very big problem for his cabinet? This is a very serious problem for the functioning of the Foreign Minister. Why does the Prime Minister still insist that it has not been a mortal sin as far as he is concerned? I would really like to hear from him that this is a mistake that has great personal consequences. I understand that he regrets it, and I do so myself, but this was not sustainable for a foreign minister. This recognition is important to us because it concerns the ability of this Prime Minister to judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u52	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u53	Thank you, Mr President. The Foreign Minister has just announced his resignation. That had to be because he had for years told a story that was not true, namely that he had heard information in President Putin's datha which was of great importance for the geopolitical relations and foreign policy of the Netherlands, among others. We do not want to sound heartless, but the way in which this minister came to his decision to lay down his duties is very much in character and creates the appearance that has been tried to persevere as long as possible, but that pressure has become too high and that is why it has been said: it is no longer possible. That's not very sincere. That too is a mistake that people can make, but the context that is important here is that this minister of a party was who tells people with fear of death a story to be safe in a country, usually does not treat so mildly and usually does not want to give as many people a second chance when they have told a story that was wrong. In the case of refugees, it is a question of preserving their lives. In the case of this Minister of Foreign Affairs, it seems that the story that he actively invented was the course of his own party, and his reputation of someone who "has some experience abroad" happened to be convenient. We would like the Prime Minister to reflect on that. We also have questions for the Prime Minister about his assumption policy. He's the chief of the cabinet. He always says that he asks all kinds of questions during the formation when he talks with the directors and always has a question at the end, namely: is there anything else I should know? The Prime Minister said that Mr Zijlstra did not say to that question of his: well, what you should know is that I lied about a story in relation to President Putin. And when that information did get to the Prime Minister, the only response of the Prime Minister was "That's how we have to believe from the media and the answer to the questions "Obviously': then you just have to come out with it quickly. I find that really weird and irresponsible. Wasn't the Prime Minister's reaction: "Ho, but wait a minute; that is just as difficult for your position. The Netherlands wants to carry out the research on MH17 well. Then it doesn't help if one of our cabinet members put up a story. That doesn't strengthen our position vis-à-vis the Russians. And another thing: we do have some other issues to settle in areas where we also want to appeal to the authorities for honesty, integrity and decent governance." Why wasn't all that the Prime Minister's reaction when this story of the Foreign Minister came to his attention? Why did he insist until 5:00 this afternoon that a major mistake had been made, but that the Foreign Minister could stay on? Does he now support Mr Zijlstra's decision to resign? We need to hear from the Prime Minister, but we've already seen his non-verbal reaction. What exactly changed? Did the pressure get too high? Or did other things happen? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister must make it clear to the Chamber that he is a full leader of this cabinet. It is true that with integrity alone you will not become a leader, but it is also true that you will never really be without integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u55	Madam President. The SGP Group took note of Mr Zijlstra's statement with great respect. A painful incident from the past, an aggregated anecdote, has led to this dramatic outcome. Madam President. I consciously use the words "a painful incident" because since 2006 I have had the pleasure of working with Halbe Zijlstra in different ways. I've come to know him as a trustworthy and honest person. His resignation also fits in his style: the country's importance goes for the personal interest, and high standards for others, but also for yourself. This incident from the past could burden his duties as Foreign Minister too much, the assessment has been made. The SGP Group has understanding and respect for that consideration. The resignation, however painful, is a powerful and dignified signal at home and abroad that the Netherlands attaches to high standards of truthfulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u56	Thank you. I now have Mr Buma on my list. I give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u57	Madam President. The CDA regrets the resignation of Minister Zijlstra. At the same time, the CDA Group respects its decision. It graces Minister Zijlstra that immediately after his publication in the Volkskrant last Monday, he recognized his fault from the past. But after the first publication, events quickly followed each other. More and more the Minister himself became the subject of the discussion. In this way, he had to come to the conclusion that developments were getting too much into the effectiveness of the policy. I do not wish to conceal the fact that I personally deeply regret the resignation of Minister Zijlstra. I acknowledge its inevitability. At the same time, these days I also see an image of Halbe Zijlstra emerging that I do not recognize from the intensive collaboration. More than half of the last year we sat at the same table as negotiators. An appointment is an appointment, a given word a given word: honest and without hidden agenda. In a political world increasingly dominated by spectacle, the content that characterizes it is an increasingly rare commodity. This is the way I thank him for his cooperation, which I would have liked to have continued for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u59	I have a quick question. I hear Mr Buma saying that Mr Zijlstra had admitted his mistake. But isn't it true that the Volkskrant threatened to publish, even without reply? It seems there was no escape, and only then did he confess. That's a little different from how the CDA's trying to paint it here now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u60	I'm really looking into the nature of this question. There was a publication on Monday. The Minister responded to that. I would like to add one thing: the Foreign Minister has just resigned from our Kingdom. I think it is important in a debate like this to realize that what we are experiencing together in this house today is not only something of yesterday's newspaper article, but also something that shows that at some point in the Netherlands, in our democracy, rulers are drawing consequences that might have to be drawn in other countries. My point is this: what the Minister has done is therefore very important. He immediately acknowledged that it was wrong, which many ministers in other countries do not. The Chamber then asked questions and asked for a debate. After a day, he decided he couldn't stay on anymore. I respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u61	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u62	The final decision of the Foreign Minister to resign was, of course, a good decision. But I do not think we can make it in the direction of the citizens of the country to pretend that everything that preceded it does not need to be discussed anymore. We can't change the facts about that either, as far as I'm concerned. I think that further undermines confidence in politics. I really call on the CDA to keep his critical attitude towards the previous cabinet.................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes, the Secretary of State has resigned. That was a good decision. But we don't have to pretend he's a saint now. I don't think that's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u63	I take this as a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u64	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Kuzu. You need to walk faster to the interrupting microphone, Mr. Kuzu, because Mr. Buma...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u65	I tried to do it as fast as I could, but I have to come from behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u66	Well, you're young and you have strong legs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u67	I know, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the compliment. The content, the factuality is part of the CDA's plea on this subject. The facts are quite different. The resignation was not followed by the interview given to the Volkskrant, on something of the past few days alone. De Volkskrant has been trying to get a response from Mr Zijlstra to everyone's knowledge for weeks. Then the CDA can't pretend that's just something from the last few days? It's been playing for weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u68	What is a little problematic is that you are now holding a debate with me as if I were the ex-Minister of Foreign Affairs, who here answers the question of what his choices were in the weeks before his resignation. I can't. Those are questions we could have asked him, but his conclusion was that he could not be enforced. And I have the impression that the Chamber respects him in that. So I can't possibly answer your questions. I do not want to answer them either, because they are questions about the Minister's last few weeks, to which he might have given a very good answer and perhaps not. But he's resigned. Again, I regret that. It was inevitable and I can only respect the way in which we have come to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u69	We agree on that part. To a small extent, this debate is also about truthfulness and fake news. Some of the group chairmen who have just spoken have also spoken about this. I therefore attach great importance to the fact that we are assessing the process regarding the decision of the ex-Minister for Foreign Affairs on the basis of truth. 'Cause it's not just the last few days. It's really from the last few weeks. And then the CDA can't pretend it's just been something from the last few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u70	I do have some difficulty with Mr Kuzu, who, once again, puts things in my shoes as if I have made some reflections in the past few weeks. Of course, some considerations have been made, which I do not know and to which the Minister could have been asked. But this minister himself, also for the sake of your credibility and of all of us, felt that he should resign. I respect that. Because the Minister has resigned, we can no longer ask him what he has done in recent weeks, but I really cannot answer that question, because I was not there. I can only say what I have seen developing in the last few days. And I have come to the conclusion that it was impossible for this Minister to hold the position of Foreign Minister. I respect that, and I also say: I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u71	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u72	Madam President. This is an eventful day and an eventful moment. Halbe Zijlstra himself has made a harsh judgment about Halbe Zijlstra and that has been dropped by Halbe Zijlstra himself. This whole affair, this debate and judgment go back to a falsehood, and that is painful. He has acknowledged that untruth. I believe that Mr Buma has just said that such a final judgment also has something inevitable in it. At the same time, I am also here as a fellow negotiator, who spent weeks in one room with Halbe Zijlstra and shared a lot. I did get to know him as one of: a man a man, a word a word. That's why I'm standing here with mixed feelings. I also have some reflection here, I believe that Mr Klaver said this on the question of whether there is room for a second chance. I gave an interview three years ago to Nathalie Righton of the Volkskrant. Above it was the question: is there still room for mercy in politics? That is the shaky balance between justice and mercy. We have the morals to uphold in politics. We must serve the truth. We have to speak the truth, and we are being placed along a sharp measuring bar. We all do. At the same time, I respect it when judgment is reached and the Minister resigns. And that judgment was made by Halbe Zijlstra. That is a sharp judgment and he has said goodbye in a very respectable and dignified way. I respect and accept that, but I do recognise that sooner or later we must all have mercy, because we all make mistakes. And in that sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u73	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand has another question, Mr. Segers, so don't run away yet. I don't know what's going on with that interrupting today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u74	You mean I'm the only one who wants to ask questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u75	No, but you can come to the interrupting microphone a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u76	This debate is important, not only because of the pressure that has been put on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also because it concerns the question of what to expect from our cabinet. I know the Christian Union as a party with very high integrity. I would therefore also like a reflection from the Christian Union on the appearance that has arisen and which I have the strong impression is true. The Prime Minister, like his previous Cabinets, helped to keep up a story until nothing else is possible but that someone resigns. Surely we can expect our government, our leaders, to do the right thing when no one is watching and that our Prime Minister has a deeper view of what is to be expected of rulers? That is because someone must be able to fulfil his task without public pressure leading him to admit a lie once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u77	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u78	I would like to expect more depth from the Christian Union towards the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u79	This debate is an encouragement to always serve the truth and to do the right thing when no one is watching. I fully agree with you on that. That is the encouragement for all of us: always speaking the truth. At the same time, if things go wrong, we have to admit that equestrian. There was a minister here who admitted he made a mistake. He himself called it the biggest mistake in his political life. That was an equestrian recognition. He paid a high political price with his resignation. That's morale. That is necessary and important, and at the same time painful because we are all sitting here as weak people who, sooner or later, make a mistake. That is the shaky balance between justice and mercy. I want to uphold the law and the truth and at the same time speak with some kindness about abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u80	In itself, we share that. The Party for Animals is the party of compassion. But I'm gonna ask the Christian Union again anyway. We have seen Mr Rutte play the role of the cover-up manager or the crisis manager in his previous cabinets, with Van der Steur, Opstelten and Teeven as Prime Minister. The Prime Minister should promote the integrity of his own rulers much more strongly than he does now; let me say it very carefully. I do not hear the Christian Union asking questions to the Prime Minister on that point. And you're only at the beginning of your partnership. I would really like to call on you to question the Prime Minister critically, because you still have to go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u81	The Animal Party may ask the questions it wishes to ask, but I make the comments I wish to make myself. I have said that we have a truth and a morality to uphold. If people go over the line, trample on the truth or sin on a lie, then there is a debate here. Then we can ask each other in all sharp questions. That debate could have been held, but the Foreign Minister has drawn his conclusions. He has done so in a very worthy and respectable way. Before that, we had debates on all kinds of other issues where that point was indeed at stake. In that I asked all the sharp questions I wanted to ask at the time. If the debate had taken place here, I or my colleague, Mr Voordewind, would have asked the questions I or he would have liked to ask. We have to ask those questions. Now there's a moment of reflection. I said what I wanted to say about this, namely that we have a moral to uphold and at the same time have to deal mercifully with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u82	I hear Mr... I hear the speaker...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u83	Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u84	I hear the speaker talking about a mistake and a mistake, which we can all make in principle. I was wondering: how likely does he think that he is at a conference and inventing a story about a meeting he hasn't been to, is he gonna put all kinds of words in English and put them in the mouth of someone who doesn't speak English at all, who has implications for world politics and who are of improbable importance to everything that's happening in the world? How likely does he think that he would do that if he says that all people make a mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u85	I said that there was a very sharp judgment on what happened at the VVD Congress and on what Halbe Zijlstra said. That sharp judgment has been made, eventually by Halbe Zijlstra himself. He said what he said very clearly about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u86	I asked you something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u87	He said it was a mistake and that it was the biggest mistake of his political career. This has led to an eventful moment, as we have seen here this afternoon. In the end, that's the hardest conclusion you can draw, and he drew it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u88	Yeah, that's a representation of what happened...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u89	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u90	... but I asked a question: how likely does Mr Segers, the speaker, think he would do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u91	I make my own mistakes and I try to avoid them as best I can. Where I make them, I try to admit that as equestrianly as possible, just as I have seen here that the Foreign Minister has admitted that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u92	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u93	Mr. Chairman. Most of the qualifications I have given to this day contain quite a lot of unparliamentary language, so I shall end it: a painful day. I think I have spent the last 36 hours; don't pin me on it often thought: if only I just happened to walk in on the preparation of that speech. Before you ask questions about that, I wasn't there. I wish I'd walked in and said, "Oh, come on, say it differently." Just say, someone I know, I can't mention a name or nationality, told me that... One simple sentence with great consequences, but justified and inevitable consequences. I'm not gonna let that go. What I do value to say here is that this end of Halbe Zijlstra's political career is in no way representative of that political career. I would also like to remind you that not only we as a VVD, but also Dutch politics, at least lose a competent politician, who has always worked for what he thought was best for the Netherlands. We can differ on that in the Chamber, but he has always worked well. He was one of the carriers of the previous cabinet, which led the Netherlands through the crisis in difficult times. He was also one of the architects of the present cabinet, which he had to leave. He also received praise in the position he unfortunately briefly held. He even received praise combined with amazement at how he fulfilled that function as Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would also like to recall this here, because, if someone has to resign, we simply have to stick to the last memory too quickly, which does not have to be too representative of the whole picture. That he has announced his resignation, that he has reached that conclusion and made that decision, I find logical and good. I don't even think that, practically speaking, it would have taken a very long time before it had made any difference on the international stage, because on that stage you encounter more people from countries with very different standards, wondering: what the hell is going on here? But I think it is a good thing that, with his resignation and the statement he has made, he shows that we do not have any mores in the Netherlands, that we have higher standards and that we attach to the credibility of the Foreign Minister. Together with the Prime Minister, he may act even more than other rulers on behalf of the whole country abroad, and not just on behalf of the coalition. Even when Halbe Zijlstra himself cost his position, he measured those higher moral standards to himself. Unfortunately, at that time, he found that his actions have prevented him from doing so and have challenged the credibility of the office on behalf of all of us abroad by continuing to fulfil that function. I appreciate that conclusion, I appreciate what he has meant to us and to our country, and I appreciate his commitment. I want everyone here to have a political career that ends in a different way, but which is close to Halbe's success throughout his career and what he has achieved for matters that we as a VVD stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u94	Buma just did it yesterday, Pechtold and now Dijkhoff, but I do not think it is appropriate to go so far as to boast that we are so far above all those other countries when there is at least the appearance that this openness was created by pressure from journalists; not in a moment of frankness, but because there was no longer any delay. That is important, if you then wipe everyone out because they do less neatly than the Netherlands. Mr Dijkhoff said that he was right to think that the Minister had resigned. I would like to ask him if he thinks that he could no longer stay on, while yesterday a different opinion was given from the coalition and by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u95	Mr Asscher first gives a whole reading, on which he does not ask questions, but I do not want to leave it unspoken. It's his qualification that I'm sneaking around here. I'm just trying to paint a real picture and just say what I think. You really don't have to be Switzerland or saint to be able to point out other countries. I even believe that Halbe Zijlstra got everyone over him when he said that he thought we should talk more to people from countries with unfresh standards or dictatorships. There was no discussion then as to whether those countries existed or whether we should appoint them. So I don't think that's such a problem and I'm not cleaning anything out of here. In addition, I think that his conclusion is right and I think that in such a situation someone should be given room for consideration. If he makes the right one, I don't think the question of what I would have thought of it if he hadn't made it is so relevant. I share the words he has spoken here and share the view that this was a logical and inevitable conclusion, in particular because of the credibility and the image that has been created by his own mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u96	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u97	I certainly won't argue that you shouldn't point out the mistakes of others, but I thought the timing was wrong. Anyway, that's it. I appreciate the second thing Mr Dijkhoff says. He says: it could not have led to a different conclusion. I agree with him. That puts yesterday's statement in a different light, but I think it is a politically correct and sincere appraisal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u98	Mr Dijkhoff begins his speech by saying that he was upset by it, I say it in my words, and that if he had known that Mr Zijlstra was doing that speech, he would have hoped that he had just walked in and said that he would say: just say that differently. That speech on the VVD Congress was held in 2016. Now Mr Dijkhoff says that he had hoped that he would have just walked in and said: gosh, Halbe, say something else. In doing so, he actually says that he was already aware in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u99	I welcome Mrs Marijnissen's clever text analysis, which indicates that I have not formulated it carefully enough, because I did not know that. I did say, if I walked in that time. I was just using a style figure; that's what it's called. If I had walked in then, I wouldn't have known anything about it and I wouldn't have been able to give him that wise advice, but I would have wanted it now. Haven't you ever? That you're overlooking a situation and thinking, "Was there only someone who knew" or "had he formulated it differently himself"? Well, let me put it this way. But no, Mrs Marijnissen draws a conclusion from my words which is not correct. When I was sitting in the hall and I heard that speech, I didn't think for a single moment, "Is this true?" And I didn't know it was different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u100	I put that question to Mr Dijkhoff because he himself is opening his speech. You will open your speech by saying that you had actually hoped that you would have walked in on him in 2016 to say: say something else. Of course, that raises questions. My second question to Mr Dijkhoff is: is the problem the lie or the publication of the lie? You keep a very solid story, in which you take the measure of other countries in particular, but the lie was no reason for the Foreign Minister to resign. No, that reason did not arise until a determined Volkskrantjournalist took it. So what is it now: is it the lie or the publication of the lie?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u101	The problem is the lie. That is why I thought, although that led to other conclusions for Mrs Marijnissen: good that I spoke not only about the last few days, but also about the one sentence, which was wrong, clumsy, wrong and stupid and which now ultimately, so many years later, costs him his job. Speaking that incorrect sentence "I was there and Putin said this to me" was the mistake, but yes, I didn't know it wasn't like Halbe Zijlstra told me at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u102	It is, of course, fantastic that in our Parliament we have the moral standard that a ruler should assume his or her responsibility when this ruler informs the Chamber incomplete, incorrect or untimely. But how high is the moral standard when you leave as a ruler when there's really no other way, namely after journalists find out that you've done something that can't be repaired anymore? Because the fact remains that ex-minister Zijlstra has not given an interview or response to the Volkskrant for weeks. So my question is: how high is the moral standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u103	It's high, but it's not sacred.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u104	I doubt that. When we talk about the level of that standard, wouldn't it be much more purer to clarify the moment it plays, that the first question is asked and that it matters, rather than after you've been caught and you can't do otherwise? I would also like to ask how the chairman of the VVD, Mr Dijkhoff, appreciates the role of the Prime Minister in this matter. The Prime Minister was aware of this on 29 January. Does Mr Dijkhoff think that the Prime Minister should have called earlier and should have encouraged the Foreign Minister to inform the Chamber earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u105	I believe that the Prime Minister should first be given the opportunity to answer the questions raised by several Members of Parliament in the debate on this subject before anyone gives them a qualification. So I don't either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u106	Thank you. Then we're going to... Mr Klaver also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u107	Mr President, I for a long time doubted whether I should ask the question, because I also asked the Prime Minister, but Mr Dijkhoff himself went into it. He actually said: I expected it would have blown over after a few months. That is an estimate that is really 180 degrees on the assessment made by my group. I would ask Mr Dijkhoff to comment on that. Why does he think this would blow over?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u108	Not in the Netherlands, huh? That is why I think it is right that we measure the credibility of the office within the Kingdom. I myself was also allowed to work in the cabinet in which I had to operate internationally. Well, there was a pretty high orbital speed. Then you also heard that someone came into discord, but someone who represents his country and can sign on behalf of his country, you take it completely seriously. Sometimes you read pieces and sometimes you think "oh, that's not so convenient," or someone dangles and still sits there, or someone else doesn't, I won't mention examples, gets caught up in the European Union because of corruption. But as long as he sits down, he'll be your partner and you'll do business with him. But I think, let me stress this right away, that this should not be the measure. So I'm also okay with Halbe Zijlstra holding himself to a different measure than just "does this cost us practical points?'. The credibility we want as the Netherlands, the fact that the Foreign Minister is acting on our behalf abroad and the feeling that we ourselves have there, must be the measure. I did make that point about the practical implications, but they are not decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u109	I am well aware that politicians are not Gandhi's and Mother Theresa's. That's not the point at all. The point is that the statements Halbe Zijlstra made are about Putin and about Russia. We're in the middle of something with that country when it comes to fake news. We're in a bind with that country when it comes to the MH17. I can easily imagine that there will be a moment in time, and the sooner the better the better, the sooner we ask for the extradition of those who shot the Buk rocket. With that, you give the Russians a huge gift to say "yes, but do we really have to commit extradition to a liar?" That is exactly why I believe Mr Zijlstra could no longer remain a Minister for Foreign Affairs. I should also like to hear Mr Dijkhoff's recognition of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u110	By the way: about Mother Theresa Mr. Klaver may need to look up the necessary, because that was not a saint either. When I talk about the implications for Russia, that is, of course, a point. I honestly do not expect the new Foreign Minister to change the attitude of the Russians towards the Netherlands in the MH17 dossier very much. So I expect it to be difficult and I expect a lot of disappointment. I expect that the Russians will also give qualifications to our country and to our rulers who are wrong. But in this case there would have been the comparison that a broken clock is at the right time twice a day. In this case, they could have blamed something that had a truth underneath. I don't know if that would have been decisive in the scheme of things, but they could have said something that you could have said as a neutral observer: if I had checked that fact, I wouldn't find out they're making nonsense about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u111	Thank you. No, Mr. Clover. Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. Mr Wilders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u112	Could I ask Mr Dijkhoff whether he thinks that the Prime Minister, who has known it for three weeks, should have informed the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u113	I think so, but the Prime Minister himself has to answer that there is a difference between something no one knows and something that is said to be known. The precise details must first be given to the Prime Minister himself, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u114	Sure. I asked him the same thing, and he will. But my question was yours. We know, because former Minister Zijlstra answered that in the written questions, that he told the Prime Minister in the week of the 29th, which was three weeks ago. You are chairman of the largest coalition party. Do you think the Prime Minister is also a Member of Parliament, you control the government that should have reported to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u115	I don't know if you should cross a discussion with a journalist with a letter. You have to make sure it gets out and make sure that that process of becoming known doesn't stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u116	May I ask when you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u117	Sunday Halbe Zijlstra called me about this and then he told me the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u118	Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u119	Well, I actually kept everyone a little short, one question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u120	Yes, but this is a key point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u121	Yes. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u122	Yeah, it's a key point, whether you like it or not. The point is whether the Chamber should be informed. Here is the representative of the largest government party, who is also a Member of Parliament, and the task of the Chamber is to control the government. If that publication had not been there at that time, yesterday, and the Prime Minister knew it, then it could have happened that Mr Zijlstra had gone to Russia, when he had all made up stories about in front of him, with Mr Putin, and with all the war rhetoric that turns out to be half of it completely wrong. We, as representatives of the people, simply would not have been able to fulfil our task. You are not just standing there as a VVD member or as two or three VVD members among yourselves; you are also standing there as a MP and our job is to control the government. If the Prime Minister had informed us immediately by letter, we could have called the Minister to the Chamber and said: it does not go on; you either go away or you take it back or whatever. We could have done something! Why don't you just say: the Prime Minister should have given us those resources as representatives of the people; he should have told the Chamber the same day or perhaps a day later. Why don't you tell me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u123	Because I'd rather explain how I see it. If there is something in a cabinet that is going to become known because a journalist is working on something, then it should not become a habit for you to send it directly to the Chamber for publication. That's a bit of a weird shape, too. So I think you're still giving me an answer; the fact that people in the benches talk through that doesn't mean I'm done. If someone comes up with a text like that, make sure it gets out. And I think that should be done in the foreseeable future. Of course, you can't wait years to do that. But in a process of hearing and hearing again, giving interviews and also having to do your work abroad, I understand that there is not a letter from the cabinet every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u124	Finally, because this is your first interruption. And then I go to others. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u125	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me to. Look, I know Mr Dijkhoff, as far as he is the chairman of the political group, as a strong Member of Parliament and as a strong chairman of the political group, but he is really standing here. Because he says in so many words: yes, if we are dealing with a journalist, then we should not disturb all of that. No, that's where the Prime Minister was! He's not sitting there as your partymate, he's sitting there as head of the cabinet, and that's controlled by us here, these 150 people. He knew there was a lie. He knew that bullshit stories had been said, and he knew that it had not been done by the Secretary of State for Agriculture, but by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who was planning to go to Russia. If we wanted to check, he should have told us right away, journalist or not. He doesn't work for the Volkskrant! The Prime Minister should have said: 'here Chamber, this is reality; these are facts'. Why are you crawling behind his back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u126	I am glad that Mr Wilders is using his qualifications again and raising his voice, because most of the time he is through his arguments. I agree with him that things need to be known. I do like the fact that the capacities to distribute and collect often go on the same level. I just said what I said, Mr. Chairman. When someone comes to you and says: questions are asked, I'm going to answer them neatly and honestly, I think that's a logical process. That must be done then, and it has been done. And then everyone knows what's going on and we can talk about it and even draw consequences. In the end, even a minister has resigned, rightly so. But I find it weird when the picture is sketched that things would have no consequences and should all be allowed to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u127	I think Mr Dijkhoff forgets that he is no longer a member of the government and secretary of state, but chairman of one of the thirteen political parties here in the House of Representatives. With that, he has a controlling role. That also means that every Member of Parliament must be given the same information. Did Mr Dijkhoff not, on Sunday, two days after the rest of the Members of Parliament received the information that Mr Dijkhoff received, say: 'Hey, this should have been known to all the other Members of Parliament'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u128	No, the time between the phone call and the publication on the website of the Volkskrant was quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u129	We're MPs. We're not all readers of the Volkskrant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u130	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u131	Everyone should be able to get the same information. You, too, control the ruler. A ruler has an obligation to provide information, he has a duty to share the information he has at his disposal with the rest of the Chamber, not only with the group chairman of the largest party among the coalition parties. He has to share it with the rest of the room. My specific question to Mr Dijkhoff is as follows. At the time, when he had that information, did he say to Minister Zijlstra: hey, but you should share this with the rest of the Chamber as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u132	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u133	That's a state-law mortal sin, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u134	No, now Mr Kuzu forgets that I am no longer a ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u135	Don't talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u136	It is a grave sin for the group leader of the largest political party to say so. Isn't every MP entitled to information and to the same information at the same time? Or does Mr Dijkhoff contradict that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u137	That's humanly impossible, because then you shouldn't even call. You can't call everyone at once. I'm being informed of the appearance of news that night or the next morning. We are not talking about a period of three weeks in between; there was a few hours in between. Well, it's pretty logical that you get a call and that people say something's coming, then you probably know? I mean, I didn't get a letter, I didn't get q&a's, I don't know what I had. I have received a "heads up" about an article to be published in the foreseeable future. Well, I know we're gonna take each other by the minute here. I'm getting a call and I'm told it'll be online in a couple of hours, and it'll be in the newspaper in the morning. To be honest, I don't think it's such a mortal sin that I've heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u138	I also agree with the reading on that Sunday evening. But there's another question at the heart of it. The Prime Minister knew three weeks earlier. I heard Mr Dijkhoff say just now: there was a request from a newspaper and it had to be stopped and we had to look at it until the publication came. I think that's a rather passive attitude. The cabinet has an active duty of information to the Chamber. If we read carefully what the editor-in-chief of de Volkskrant writes today, it turns out that he indicates that the Ministry has not cooperated at all in bringing out this information as soon as possible in recent weeks. In fact, it has been considered whether it could perhaps be lifted over the trip to Russia. My question to Mr Dijkhoff is: if the Prime Minister was aware of this a week or three ago, shouldn't the Chamber have been informed as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u139	That's a question that's been asked before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u140	I don't know the exact context because I haven't been involved in the past few weeks. All I can say is this. Someone says: questions are asked, I'm going to answer them all honestly and then it will come out. I understand, then, that that process will have its course. Of course, it shouldn't be able to be stretched forever. But I don't know how this went exactly in those weeks. All I know is that I was notified on Sunday. I was told it was coming. So I find it difficult to give such a white opinion before the Prime Minister has answered your more detailed questions about the course of those three weeks and how that went.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u141	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u142	We will come back to this in the second term, but this question is quite relevant. This says something about the way in which the group chairman of the VVD looks at the information position of the Lower House. There are three weeks between such a great fact and its publication. You can see the consequence, namely that the Foreign Minister should resign. I think you can conclude, even if you don't have all the information, that three weeks was quite long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u143	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u144	Madam President. The D66 Group has taken note with respect of the Foreign Minister's decision to resign from the King's office. In recent days, questions arose about his actions prior to his ministry. He has just been more than clear about that himself. And rightly so. There can be no doubt about the credibility of our Foreign Minister, especially in view of the important issues that the Netherlands has to deal with on the restless world stage, and especially in relation to Russia, such as the MH17, Crimea and disinformation. That clarity graces him. Admit a mistake and take responsibility for it; this shows you how a democracy distinguishes itself. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, but certainly during the seven months of negotiations leading to the establishment of this cabinet, I have come to know Halbe Zijlstra as a driven, straightforward politician. As clearly as he represented the VVD as chairman of the political group, he then clearly pursued cabinet policy as minister. I would like to thank him very much on behalf of my group. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u145	This sounds so different from what Pechtold said yesterday. What he's saying now does indeed fit perfectly with the events. There must be no doubt about the credibility of the Foreign Minister. But yesterday, Pechtold said something completely different. Another sneer came to the Russians in this case. 140 million, but he'd never seen anyone admit a mistake. That's why it was so great how Zijlstra did this and he could stay. Now we hear a completely different Pechtold. I do not think that is very strong, so I would like to hear what has happened since yesterday, so that Mr Pechtold is now assessing this situation so differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u146	Yesterday morning, and also Sunday evening, I was confronted with a number of facts about a conversation that would have been held more than ten years ago and which was reported at a party congress two years ago. We all know the facts by now. At that time, I made an assessment for myself of the error that Zijlstra was very clear about from the very first moment, and the content, the weighting of the relationship with Russia and the importance of the information that was still trickling through it. I thought it was very important that we give Zijlstra the opportunity to explain more about that. I knew from my experience how that would work here. Many questions would be asked and there would be room for that. On Monday morning, when I was asked for an initial response, I felt that those questions could also be answered by Zijlstra, and successfully. Later more details emerged and doubts arose about the scope of the content. This has not only shed light on Zijlstra but also on me. You mentioned my ruling on the Russians. I did this in the context of politicians and about whether you can admit mistakes. In this general context, given our democracy and the work that journalists do and which I appreciate very much, I think the situation in the Netherlands is quite different from that in Moscow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u147	It's a little double. Or Mr. Pechtold knew yesterday, whatever he himself suggests, that it couldn't be done, but he wanted to give Zijlstra the opportunity to answer questions himself, but then it's weird that he jumped in front of it with a sneak at the Russians or he started thinking about it differently because of the new details. But in that case it is better to stop wandering with the relevance of the information that twilights through it, because that was the story yesterday and that does not last. An incorrect 2006 anecdote that was told at a party congress in 2016 cannot now justify causing this kind of damage. So I would very much appreciate it if Mr Pechtold indicated the following: or yesterday was an act because he already knew that it was not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u148	I do not know how that works for Mr Asscher, but if, in such a precarious situation, you immediately condemn and give little chance to those who are concerned with explaining themselves except in an interview, we would all be ready to judge each other here rather quickly. I found the interview clear on the one hand, in particular on the other hand, and that was also immediately admitted by Zijlstra as a lie about what happened at that party congress. But I still find and find interesting what has been said about the world of thought of a leader of Russia who nevertheless has a special state of control. If there was, or will be, relevant information in it, then I think we should take it seriously. I think Zijlstra tried that, too. He has made his own role too great, and thus derived from that content, but I found and find what has been said still incredibly interesting over the last few days. Especially seen in the light of the troubled situation with this country and the relationship with the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u149	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u150	Locking up. This remains yesterday's position. At that time Mr Pechtold, by Mrs Ollongren, always called out by the Prime Minister as if something very relevant, geopolitically relevant had emerged from that anecdote. It doesn't fit with the facts. Meanwhile there is doubt about the correctness of that anecdote, there is doubt about the source at that anecdote. I continue to find it a very weak justification for a mistake that has been made. It would adorn Mr Pechtold if he stopped doing so now. Because yesterday the Dutch people were told with a solemn face that something very important came out of that anecdote and it had therefore to be told to the VVD Congress. No, if it had been important, it should have been reported to the Foreign Minister and not to a party congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u151	This isn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u152	Between what happened or did not happen in the presence of Mr Zijlstra in a dasha and now the occupation of Crimea has taken place, and there is quite a bit of a threat of war towards former states within the USSR. I was self-involved and you can verify that yourself a while ago in one of the Baltic States. And whether you speak there with a taxi driver, a student or anyone else, the threat from Russia, the influence, is very topical there. So I still think, and I maintain that, that if Zijlstra wanted to share information about it with others in any way, we should listen to it. In addition to the lie about his own role, I still think that is relevant after yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u153	I do find this worrying. I came up with another question. Is the defense that D66 is running here again what we can expect for the coming period of D66? Are we going to use information that we have heard of, from a source that you cannot verify whether he himself does not have his own agenda with what he would have said to Zijlstra, to defend the lies that a foreign minister was allowed to tell: I lied, but it was not bad because it was in the national interest? I find that very worrying. The question I came here for is the next one. D66 is new to the cabinet. We've seen Rutte make a lot of appearances before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u154	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u155	The Prime Minister has the impression that he has not allowed his cabinet to function as properly as possible but has looked at how long it has been possible to keep a crisis under control. It seemed as if he was thinking: maybe we can make it in the imagery, and only if it really can't be otherwise will we resign. Is that really how D66 wants to operate in this cabinet with that important foreign affairs portfolio?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u156	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the first question, because otherwise it might stick: the lie was mainly about the role that Zijlstra had attributed to himself. There he is, everyone is, quite clearly; and that has also had consequences. It was not about the alleged content of what has been said and I suspect that there will be discussion about it in the near future. Then there is the question of how we deal with each other: I think it is very important, and this has been discussed in the establishment of this cabinet, that we are asking directors well. This is becoming more and more pragmatous at the present time on many fronts. We have seen over the past few years that it is also moving from the person himself to the immediate environment. I'm okay with that. I still think the role of journalism in this is a value of our democracy. Sometimes you feel like, "Oh, my God, should it all be so profound?'. I think every time: yes, it has to be so profound, because that is precisely the high standard I have just referred to in my term. In this case, this article, this interview, was published on Monday. We have seen that the period before that was also quite clear. There was already room, with the support of the coalition, for this debate to take place, and consequences have already been drawn. To draw conclusions earlier could also lead to the situation that we say afterwards: well, who knows, it would have been different if we had actually looked more closely at the facts. It is still regrettable and regrettable for the person, but for my opinion it has gone pure in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u157	I wanted to remain lenient in the debate, but I must say that I am getting worse and worse. The contents state, is that really the line that D66 chooses? We can't at all check the contents of that afternoon or was it an evening? Was in that dachshah. We don't know what the source's agenda was that spoke to Zijlstra. I therefore find it really unwise to defend it, as the cabinet has done in recent days. So let that go. The most important thing is this. We are at the beginning of this cabinet period. We know the Prime Minister as a prime minister who tries to keep his rulers out of the wind for as long as possible and only when it becomes really untenable is it: yes, then admit it. This is about the State Department. D66 has strong views on this. We're talking about a minister here...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u158	And the question is, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u159	...who invented a story about Putin before taking office, which makes the Dutch position incredibly difficult. Then you can expect D66 to have said here to the Prime Minister: at the time you knew it, should you have had the conversation with Zijlstra about it that he couldn't stay on? I thought that was the only right conclusion. Then you're not gonna wait until it becomes untenable in the imaging.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u160	I do not think Mrs Ouwehand and I disagree incredibly on the way in which you should deal with a difficult political situation, but I do not recognize the generality that Mrs Ouwehand says about Prime Minister Rutte's actions. I appreciate a leader of a team. In the Netherlands, the Prime Minister is the primus inter pares. If you compare it internationally, that's the least powerful position. The prime minister is the president, but he's not the one who appoints people. He gets them led by the negotiating parties. He's gonna have to do with it. I like it when the first attitude is to stand in front of your people, to think along and, as far as I know, but I wasn't there and in this case it's important to advise whether or not you were there. Again, for me, that science came late Sunday night and it's now Tuesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u161	As strong and magnanimous as Halbe Zijlstra's statement was, I think the defence of the coalition is becoming so weak. Mr Zijlstra admitted the mistakes that have been made, but now I hear Mr Pechtold, who yesterday had no doubt as to whether Mr Zijlstra could stay as a minister, say: it is very logical that he should leave, but the content of his statement was still very important. In 2016, we all knew about the Russians' expansion drive. The new thing was that Halbe Zijlstra had apparently once been in a dasha with Putin, but we already knew everything else that was reported there. It was written all over the place. During that period, all sorts of books had been published about Putin. My question to Mr Pechtold is: why are you trying to make that right at the moment? It was such a good statement by Mr Zijlstra, and now you are trying to make it quite clear that he has brought it out. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u162	I'm not trying to justify anything. I notice a little bit that on the one hand it doesn't seem good if you want to give a minister who's also sitting on your behalf the space to defend himself, but on the other hand you're not right when you're making a judgment. I was asked by the media every hour by myself this morning whether I had a new judgment. You also know that when a debate comes, you have to give the main player the room to conduct that debate as well as possible, without shadows ahead. As things were yesterday, that was the moment when I expressed myself, I felt that talking about one's own presence was extremely unwise, but that was clear quite quickly. I thought the other part needed attention. To be honest, I still do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u163	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u164	I can see why you're giving me space. I also think it is the royal way for a minister to go to the Chamber to tell us why he is resigning or not. I commended Mr Zijlstra for his words, but that is not the point. It is about the words Mr Pechtold chooses. He said yesterday: I have no doubt that Halbe Zijlstra can stay on. No doubt at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u165	Can you, if we're going to quote literally... You say, "No doubt at all." I have indicated that as far as I am concerned that one part...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u166	On the question of whether Zijlstra can stay on, Pechtold says: "I have not doubted that."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u167	No, because I thought he was more than equestrian as far as the part he was clear about, namely about his own presence. I think I used that word, too. The other part I found relevant at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u168	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u169	Mr Pechtold says that there was no doubt yesterday, but today he indicates that this has turned 180 degrees. Mr Pechtold always says that there is some sort of rule in The Hague: the moment you get the support of the Prime Minister, you will be gone 24 hours later. I think a rule can be added: the moment Mr Pechtold says that he does not doubt that someone can stay on, you will be gone within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u170	Let's look into that in the future, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u171	What an incredibly weak bite, actually. It's a difference between day and night. A year and a half ago, when we were having a debate here following the departure of Ard van der Steur or Ivo Opstelten, Mr Pechtold was not going away from the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u172	Neither do you tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u173	I remember that time very well. What a weak bite today and what a weak line of defense now. I wonder, Mr. Pechtold, is the power really that important to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u174	I made agreements with a coalition at a time when working together isn't so easy, there's fragmentation and there's polarization. Both in my period of opposition, in which I have not supported many motions of mistrust, which sometimes rains here, and now in the period we are in a coalition, I have always tried to be careful and not rush into increasing the appearance. I've always tried to just make sure that facts were on the table, regardless of whether those were facts or long questions. The same applies to allowing a debate. As far as appearances are concerned, there was also that feeling just now when Zijlstra resigned. Can we leave that for a while? No, not as far as I'm concerned. If there are any questions, they must be answered at that time. That's what I insisted on. I'm very happy about that. In that respect, there is no change for me. I thought Mr Buma said nicely: changing the Netherlands and the way we deal with each other. We politicians have to deal with this, because it sets a high standard. I'll put that down for my own party, too. But no, Mr. Kuzu, as you describe it, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u175	This is precisely what I am complaining about, also in the direction of Mr Pechtold. I am concerned with that list of questions and that critical attitude towards a cabinet and towards a prime minister in the previous period compared with the weak attitude of D66 towards the Prime Minister at the moment. No question, no point of criticism, no question of how it could be that the Prime Minister knew for three weeks what was going on when he did not inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u176	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u177	The question then is: would it really be des D66's, and would it be a witness to transparency and the democratic process, if Mr Pechtold were to insist on that instead of taking the weak attitude we are seeing today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u178	I have already called for the debate to be held as soon as possible, today. That's what happened. That's what's happening now. You may ask me. Mr. Kuzu, I wish that you could always maintain your critical attitude in the future, but please do so in the place where you are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u179	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u180	Mr President, this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u181	A brief response, and then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u182	So this is what power does. This is the arrogance of the power of D66. Yeah, I hear them talking there. But if an opposition party is addressed in this way by D66, then that is nothing but the arrogance of power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u183	Something about ball and bounce.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u184	I have listened carefully to Mr Pechtold's speech, but I do not understand him. What I don't understand is this. Mr Pechtold's first reaction yesterday was: I appreciate Mr Zijlstra's frankness. There was even a sneak to the Russians. In fact, you say in your speech: I wanted to give Mr Zijlstra a chance to defend himself. You could also imagine a scenario in which it had a more positive outcome. I really don't understand that. So my question to Mr Pechtold is: D66 is part of a cabinet that constantly takes the measure of other countries, for example when it comes to spreading fake news. How would you have imagined having a foreign minister who admits to using a classic lie, who has shown macho behavior to cover up a story and even made threats of war at a party congress? How would you have imagined the credibility of our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u185	I think it is good that Mrs Marijnissen says that after reading one interview you can immediately go the other way. I gave the room and found the defense for it. Again, I have distinguished between the lie about the presence and the importance of the message. That first part was very clear in the interview and in all reactions afterwards by Zijlstra himself. With regard to the second part, I found it interesting to know exactly what was happening. I'll stick with that. I note that even last night and this morning there were nuances and lectures. If Zijlstra had made the choice to defend himself here, that should have been central. That didn't happen. We have been talking for years about the relationship with Russia and the many dossiers on which we are diametrically opposed. This will certainly continue to happen in the near future, partly because of what has now passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u186	I really don't understand anything about this. We have just heard a fine statement from Mr Zijlstra, who admits his mistake and says: in the office of Foreign Affairs, the lie does not fit, so I am gone. And then you actually say: yes, I can also imagine that the outcome might have been different if the debate had gone differently and if there had been another explanation. How do you see that? How do you see the credibility of our country if we had a foreign minister? How credible do you think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u187	Could I ask one counter question for the first time in this whole series of interruptions? Then why didn't the SP and other parties yesterday immediately call for his resignation? Why did they ask so many questions about the content? Doesn't that mean that we were all still interested in a debate in which the Minister could explain himself, and allowed space to do so? I insist that he himself had admitted that the lie about the presence was wrong, but that it was not only the reason for a resignation. On the basis of the way in which other parties in the Chamber put the emphasis through their questions on the consideration of the content of what would have passed there, a debate would still make sense. Otherwise, we would not even have had to ask for the debate, but could have said straight away: he has to leave, and that does not require a debate; a motion of censure can suffice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u188	You may respond to a counter-question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u189	Two things. One: we didn't get a call on Sunday night, unlike the coalition. Two: we did not take any advance on the outcome of the debate, Mr Pechtold; that was you, because you said right away: I see no reason why he should leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u190	But that's exactly the same thing, right? Then you left it open, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u191	Mr. Klaver, do you have a new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u192	Mr Pechtold challenged the opposition. Here I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u193	On behalf of someone, everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u194	If you carry on like this, you will eventually, yes. It is not at all a question of which opposition parties have already reached a conclusion. Let me speak for GroenLinks: we had not finished our conclusion, we wanted this debate and asked for it. I'm going to your words now. You say to the question whether Zijlstra can stay on: I have no doubt about that. This is the way you close the door to such a debate. That's what you're saying: by definition, he can stay. You slammed the door, not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u195	All right, you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u196	There was no question in that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u197	And you were done. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u198	Thank you. It is perfectly right that Halbe Zijlstra has resigned. This was the inevitable outcome from the moment it became known that he lied about his presence far away in a country house of Vladimir Putin. He fantasized that he had heard the Russian president speak there and even put an English quote in his mouth. At that time, May 2016, shortly after the lost referendum on the Association Treaty with Ukraine, it was necessary to hit the Dutch people against Russia to get the slippage through in order to push through the association treaty against that imaginary great enemy in the east. And yes, you're just making up some bullshit story. You're just laughing at people like this being allowed to run our country. According to the Volkskrant, the first reactions when the appointment of Zijlstra became known were hoon, cherished laughter and utter surprise. Anyway, how is it that Mark Rutte knew about these absurd lies and didn't do anything, that he wanted to maintain Zijlstra yesterday as Secretary of State, even after all this had surfaced? Already weeks ago Zijlstra would have informed him, according to his own words, about the lie. Why did he not let Zijlstra leave with silent drum, in order to protect Dutch interests? The image damage our country has suffered today is enormous. We are the rise of the international press. Successors from both the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister will regret this, not to mention the entrepreneurs who want to do business abroad, people the VVD always claims to stand up for. Was it really only party loyalty that made Rutte decide to maintain Zijlstra for as long as possible? In a statement just now, Rutte said that Zijlstra has always put the country's interest above party interests. But that is clearly not the case. It doesn't apply to Rutte himself either. This is evident from the fact that he initially once again, for the umpteenth time thought he would get away with it. How did the Prime Minister think that is a very serious question from us before this riot came out that it would be okay? How does the Prime Minister intend to make up for this image damage for the Netherlands? Why does the Prime Minister never anticipate in crisis situations and always shoots into a twist reflex with all kinds of bullshit stories? We are seeing a lack of leadership here, especially when it comes to unexpected situations with an international dimension. Mark Rutte has shown over the past week that he is not at all fit to perform the EU top job he has been fishing for for years and for which Dutch interests are set aside if necessary. I'm sorry, but I really have to make that judgment. When exactly did the Prime Minister hear Zijlstra's story for the first time? We've heard from Zijlstra about that, but the Prime Minister hasn't. As the situation in Ukraine escalated further and further, Halbe Zijlstra walked around with that great story about Putin's supposed true intentions? Then what was that nice, professional work relationship that Zijlstra didn't tell him back then? That he was there! Or wasn't the story made up at the time? How is it possible that he said yesterday that the words were true? Does the Prime Minister still support his statement that the content is there? Then what content exactly? Does the Prime Minister think Jeroen van der Veer heard this story from the Russian President? Then how does the Prime Minister interpret it that Jeroen van der Veer himself indicated that Zijlstra's words are not his? Finally. Can the Prime Minister give us a guarantee that Zijlstra's blunder is so enormous that Zijlstra is absolutely not allowed to come back to Rutte's cabinet, because it would remove the credibility of this cabinet, our country and our democracy? I await your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u199	Thank you. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u200	I have a question for Mr Baudet. I just heard him ask: when the Prime Minister heard of Mr Zijlstra's lie, why didn't he let him leave quietly? I heard you say that, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u201	Correct, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u202	I've been looking for what it means to leave quietly with "boyfriend Baudet." Leaving with quiet drum means leaving unnoticed, quietly. Is that what you wanted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u203	Yes, I had found a good solution to this situation, to protect the Dutch position abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u204	I don't understand. It was a fine speech by Mr Baudet, but I really do not understand that. Because what the Prime Minister should have done, of course, is not to let the Foreign Minister leave quietly. That is what I said just now in my interruption to the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. He should have sent a letter to the Chamber so that we, colleagues, because we are today, representatives of the people...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u205	Members of the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u206	... could have called the Secretary of State to account here. We would not have let him go with a silent drum, but with a loud drum. With silent drum means: no one knows, secretly, among VVDs, you just leave, Halbe, and no one will find out. The Prime Minister should have reported it to the Chamber and we should have had a debate here in all openness and not with silent drum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u207	I'm just trying to figure out whether I agree or not. I can also imagine that you are choosing a different line as Prime Minister of the Netherlands. If you really don't know, huh? You get to hear this and you think: jeez, this is a really big mistake and a very big problem, causing Dutch interests incredibly harmed; I solve this in the interests of the country by letting this man leave and replacing him. I can follow the reasoning of colleague Wilders, but I can also imagine that there are other interests involved. So I'll think about it again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u208	...how I'll solve that in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u209	It is always good for you to think carefully, and I very much welcome that. But I wouldn't think too long about it if I were you, because leaving your variant in the country's interest with silent drum means removing the House of Representatives. And your role is now: Member of the House of Representatives. Being a member of the Lower House means that we control the cabinet. If it were... It's almost like cartel politics!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u210	Nice word!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u211	If it were the case that the VVD executives could meet with each other without informing the Chamber about it and they could send someone home, that is not what your party was founded for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u212	Mr. Baudet, do you have to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u213	Well, I find it interesting considerations. I'm just puzzled what's the best approach when such a huge blunder comes to light. Do you have to act in the country's interest in foreign contacts or do you have to open everything up internally at that point? I think it's an interesting dilemma. Moreover, I think there is something to say for both options, but what Rutte has done now is unacceptable. So let's agree to that with Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u214	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. You were the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u215	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u216	Madam President. If you'll allow me, I'd like to say a few more words about Halbe Zijlstra. Then I think it is right that I should address the questions about how I dealt with his message to me about the events, about not speaking the truth and the moment two weeks ago that I heard that; or at least in the week of the 29th. Then something about the questions that have been asked in the last 24 hours. Then about the risks to the credibility of the Netherlands internationally. I think that the various questions that have been raised can be grouped around those three points. May I join those who say that Halbe Zijlstra made a mistake here, but that this must not mean that we are putting aside his great merit? They lie in many areas: as Secretary of State for Education, as chairman of the political group for five years and as one of the architects, perhaps one of the most important ones, of the present cabinet. I also think that, at least against the expectations of some, he has made a very good start in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am not going to repeat what I have already said to the press, namely that it affects me personally, of course. Especially in the five years of the previous cabinet we were a strong team. We actually disagreed very often, but because of the total confidence we could always come out well and together in the party and from the party in the coalition we could do the things we thought were necessary. You rarely have that in life, that you meet someone you can trust and at the same time you can disagree with. This has made the last five years very special. So I miss him a lot. Mr. Chairman. I understand that people here say, "Oh, shouldn't you have done that differently in the week of the 29th?" I'll explain why I made the decision the way I made it. You can see that in the questions that have been answered from the Foreign Office. During the week of the 29th, he informed me that there was a very rotten piece in the Volkskrant and that he had decided to give complete openness to a case which he informed me of, namely that he had given incorrect information about his role in that Putin meeting in 2006, about which he had heard from a source in 2014 or 2016 at least later. I said to him at the time: that is a serious matter and it has to go outside. He said, "I'm going to do that. I do that in the Volkskrant. They're doing a scoop. I'm gonna make sure I tell them about that." Last Saturday or Sunday, that interview took place. When I look back on it, one mistake was made by me. I should have promoted that, when the Volkskrant appeared last Monday, there would also be a letter to the Chamber which would also send the Volkskrant message directly to the Chamber. What I hear from the Chamber from a number of parties, namely that it should not have been through the Volkskrant at all, but that I should have arranged immediately when I heard that he had sent a letter to the Chamber, I find complicated. I get it, because that's how it's done. I understand that very well, but I also find it complicated. If a newspaper is working on a piece and he decides to cooperate and he tells me that, I find it complicated. What I should have done was to promote the content of that document which would have been sent to the Chamber on Monday morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u217	Let me begin by saying that I understand and respect the words of sympathy of this Prime Minister for Mr Zijlstra from his party. But what he says after that is really bullshit. It's not complicated at all. When the Prime Minister had taken note of the facts of Mr Zijlstra, namely that he invented a story about his presence in the dasha of the President of Russia, he also added a number of stories about which there is at least great doubt as to whether he was not overwhelmed and overwhelmed by the minister's resignation today. At the time he told you that, you had become a co-owner or at least a co-knowledge of that fact. Then you must inform the Chamber. So I don't understand why you didn't inform the Chamber. I would like to ask you again whether you could not simply say that you were wrong, I should have done that, I should have informed the House of Representatives by letter on the 29th or perhaps the 30th. You must not wait for Mr Zijlstra or for the Volkskrant. You, as Prime Minister, should have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u218	Sometimes life is complicated. I understand what Mr Wilders is saying, and I respect that. This is also absolutely a reasoning which is perfectly conceivable and purely of state law. But if a newspaper is preparing a scoop and asks a politician to cooperate, and that politician says that he gives full cooperation and full openness to things, he also did so last Monday morning in that piece of paper, then I think it is also a consideration to be respected. Otherwise, you're gonna make it impossible for that journalist to publish that piece. Any journalist who calls a minister and says, "I found out something you'd rather not have me find out about" must at that time... That also complicates the traffic. I get what Wilders is saying. That is also absolutely a completely honorable route. But I've made this assessment in such a way. I would like to add that I should have promoted that Monday morning that the content of the Volkskrant article would have been formally here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u219	It's not about last Monday. I'm on the 29th. On the 29th, the former Foreign Minister will come to you or you will go to him. I do not know how it has gone and tell you the facts about the falsehood and the fiction that he has endured for a number of years. That shouldn't depend on a newspaper. That must not depend on the media. The Volkskrant says she's going to publish it tomorrow or in six weeks, doesn't matter. We are the representatives of the people here. We need to hear it from you. Again, you are even constitutionally obliged to give us the information spontaneously if it is important. And you withheld that information. Surely it can't be that we depend on when a newspaper publishes something? You heard something. After you've heard that, the Minister has traveled the world for three weeks. He's been to Japan and China. He spoke here in the Netherlands with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister. These are all things that we, as representatives of the people, might not have wanted at all if we had known. So now acknowledge your mistake! You should not have said that the Volkskrant was coming because perhaps that had not happened at all or later, but that we should have been informed as the House of Representatives. What's the point of saying that? Because if you do not, you have deliberately withheld information from the Chamber and we have not been able to do our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u220	I think my reasoning is holding. I understand what Mr Wilders is saying. What Mr Zijlstra told me is: this serious fact has occurred, I lied about it; the Volkskrant is working on a piece and I am going to give it full disclosure; it will be very soon. That's true, too. This was in the week of the 29th and we are now a week and a half or two weeks further and the piece has come out. It is also here in the Chamber and we discuss it. The alternative is to say: you must send a letter to the Chamber immediately. I get that. I understand very well what Mr Wilders is saying. I also think it is very good that you can make that assessment, but it is not that the consideration I have made would be the wrong one in advance. Once again, however, I think you should promote the formal sharing of the information contained in the article with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u221	Finally, in my third attempt to convince the Prime Minister of the contrary, I say: it is really not right. If the Minister tells you something that is of such an order that he himself thinks at some point that he should resign, I do not need to convince you how serious it was, and I am not going to repeat it, because he resigned today by himself, then you must immediately inform the Chamber as soon as you know. That is a point of principle. I can say now that I understand the Prime Minister. I have that for a lot of things. I also said this at the beginning about the fact that he lost his buddy, and that is what I mean in the respectful sense of the word. But with the law of the state and informing the Chamber, there can be no blackmail. You should have informed the Chamber on the 29th or the 30th whether the Minister should have been able to do so. If you have not done so, and if you do not say "I should have done so differently," then you have withheld information from the Chamber, and that is a mortal sin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u222	I think that analysis goes too far. It has nothing to do with my personal relationship with Halbe Zijlstra. What it has to do with this is this. I hear that fact and he says: in the context of that piece that de Volkskrant is working on, I am going to give it complete openness. That is what he did: see last Monday's piece and all the consequences that came from it. So I made that assessment as I did, but I agree: at that time, on that Monday morning, of course, the Chamber should have been given the same information immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u223	One of the damaging elements in the Prime Minister's speech is that the suggestion is raised that only when the Volkskrant found out should the Minister open up his affairs. Has it ever occurred to the Prime Minister that the Foreign Minister was blackmailable from the moment he was appointed for telling such a shameful, gross lie?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u224	I heard on that 29th of the facts on the basis of which this Minister had decided, of course, and of course I also said: that seems wise to me to confirm them in the context of that Volkskrant paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u225	Okay, so it's two things. First of all, the Prime Minister found until yesterday, and perhaps he still finds it in his heart that Halbe Zijlstra could stay on, even though he had told such a bizarre, lying story. That is one, and that is already very absurd and very peculiar to the situation we are in right now. The second is, and that has not been discussed before, that in the entire period in which this story was not known, Halbe Zijlstra was therefore blackmailable. Because we all know that the Russians are omnipotent and that they can listen to everything; that is one of the big assumptions here in the House of Representatives and also in Dutch politics. The Russians see everything: well, they certainly saw Halbe Zijlstra's speech at the party congress of the VVD in 2016! The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands has told a total quaint story about his presence at Putin. So he was blackmailable!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u226	Well, the fact is that Halbe Zijlstra didn't speak the truth about his presence at that conversation in Putin's datha. He decided, in the context of the Volkskrant investigation, to bring that out. That's what happened. I think this is very big words, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u227	How is this an answer to my question? It's not that! The Foreign Minister has told a very important, very big lie. When he was appointed Secretary of State, anyone who knew of it, of course, knew that this lie would end his fall. We've just seen him cry, mope. He's had nothing in mind for 20 years of his life but that big, coveted job. That's what he's always wanted. And oh, it's sad, a few months after he finally has it, he's being brought down. That's what the foreign minister's enemies knew. So did the enemies of the Dutch state. He was blackmailable!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u228	I'm really making another valuation. Let us deepen it a little further in the second part of my speech, but I think that you should make a distinction between not speaking the truth about whether or not you are present at a certain meeting. I said that it is a sin but not a mortal sin and the content of the matter. The content of the matter will be discussed further in this way, because there is still a lot to be said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u229	The suggestion is now being raised that it was true, but that Halbe Zijlstra was just not there. How do you know that was true?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u230	I didn't say that, but we'll get back to that in the second part. It was my reaction to Mr Baudet's speech, who says: listen, there has been a mistake and how does it relate to this person? Yes, there has been a mistake, but I value the weight of that mistake, of telling this falsehood, really different from what Mr Baudet is bringing here, and also the consequences that that might have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u231	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u232	Sorry, one more thing. The word "fault" does not cover the load of what happened here. You make a mistake if you have a good intention but do it wrong, for example a medical mistake or a wrong move if you want to win at chess but the consequence is that you lose. This is not a mistake; this is malpractice. No one accidentally tells an Indian story about his presence with the president of Russia. This isn't a mistake. The word "fault" is completely wrong to refer to this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u233	At least it's very unwise what he's done. He also eventually, in combination with the whole situation as it grew, made the ultimate consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u234	I myself also have great appreciation for Halbe Zijlstra. The questions I am asking therefore do not relate to him, but to the functioning of the Prime Minister. I think the Prime Minister would be wise not to play down too much tonight. If you carry a secret with you, you're blackmailable. The question is in what proportions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u235	Sure, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u236	Now, if I could just look at the story that the Prime Minister is telling, namely that he received information on 29 January...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u237	In that week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u238	When exactly was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u239	I don't remember. He doesn't know that either. We can't get it back exactly, but that phone call took place that week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u240	So, in the week of the 29th, information was shared with the Prime Minister, but it took 16 days for this explosive information to be published. To be honest, I think it took a very long time for this to come out. And that is also relevant to me because the Volkskrant itself states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has properly trained the case and has not accelerated openness at all. So what does the Prime Minister know about the Volkskrant's claim that foreign affairs spokesmen have just tried to lift the coverage of the trip to Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u241	I don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u242	That is just too easy for me, because this is quite relevant to the whole argument that the Prime Minister is holding here. The doubt that exists is: why didn't the Prime Minister share it? What's underneath is, was he trying to keep it under his hat somewhere, was he trying to direct as best as possible how this would come out? The Prime Minister's statement is: no, we simply wanted to bring this out through the Volkskrant. But that takes 16 days and the Volkskrant claims that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has just tried to stop the publication. I really think this is a crucial question in order to assess whether the Prime Minister is right, so my question was, is and remains: what does the Prime Minister know about this, has the Foreign Office tried to stop this publication until after the trip to Russia, or has it not done so quickly? If the Prime Minister is shaking no now, I would like to ask him to obtain this information in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u243	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has resigned. Mr Klaver's question as to what happened in those up to two weeks it was in the week of the 29th January and we are now in the week of the 12th and 13th February. Mr Zijlstra told me: listen, the Volkskrant is working on a serious piece about a serious mistake I made; I'll come clean: this is what happened. I said, yes, that's serious indeed, and it's good that you come out with that. Then you can have the discussion I just had with Mr Wilders: is that at that time a reason to send a letter to the Chamber? I made the choice as I did and said: if you do so in the Volkskrant, it is very important and must be done. It's happened. Last Saturday or Sunday, he gave that interview.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u244	Once again, the Foreign Minister has resigned. That's what he did great. I am not going to use this debate to do anything about it or to talk about its functioning. I ask the Prime Minister about his responsibility for the team, which includes the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u245	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u246	I have a very specific question. There is something that is being said by the Volkskrant, who actually undermines the Prime Minister's story and says: wait a minute, there has not been any cooperation from the cabinet to publish it as soon as possible. I'm asking what's true of that. It is a claim that is potentially harmful to this cabinet. I would ask the Prime Minister to look into how the Foreign Ministers dealt with the requests that lie there. I hope that comes out because otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u247	I will see if I can say a little more about that in the second term. I'll take a look at the officials. We're gonna try. But I'm not familiar with it. I thought that was your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u248	I would like that answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u249	Let's see if we can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u251	This is not Mark Rutte's first year as Prime Minister; this is now his eighth year. Shouldn't the Prime Minister know the order in which to inform the Chamber? I hear him saying that too easily: there would be an interview with the Volkskrant and therefore the choice was made not to inform the Chamber at that time. Surely the Prime Minister should know very well that he should not inform the Volkskrant, but the Chamber? That's his duty, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u252	Sure. That is why I should at least have encouraged the House to be informed on the day that article was published, but I have just had a whole discussion with Mr Wilders on this. We're going to do it again now; I don't mind, because that's possible. I understand Mr Kuzu's question. That is also a relevant question. I've made this assessment in such a way. I said, okay, the Volkskrant is working on a piece; you're going to open up. He did; look at the interview that appeared in the Volkskrant last Monday. That is what opened the door to openness. The discussion is then, I understand that weighting; that is really a question of weighting and also a taste issue, whether it would have been wise at that time, weighing up the hand, to immediately inform the Chamber or not, given that a newspaper is busy with a scoop and that piece will be published shortly. Mr Klaver's question as to whether he deliberately tried to slow things down is relevant; we are going to try to find out, because I am not aware of that. Anyway, aside from that, that's the trade-off I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u253	It's not a weighting issue, is it? Please! It's not a weighting issue, is it? It is the duty of a ruler, of a minister, of a Secretary of State and above all of an experienced Prime Minister who has been Prime Minister for eight years, not to make the weighing but simply to do his duty. His duty is to inform the Chamber. That doesn't have anything at all, but it doesn't have anything to do with different weights? My question is therefore, in particular, whether the Prime Minister acknowledges that he has simply acted wrongly in this matter. So it's not a weighting. Is it a mistake, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u254	No, Mr President, I have made this assessment in this way and I think it can be defended. Moreover, I also think that Mr Kuzu's assessment is fully justified. Mr Wilders also made it earlier. I honestly don't think this is a simple "black or white?" is. He's reporting this fact to me. That's relevant. He says: I come out with it and that happens quickly; the Volkskrant. We're talking about the week of the 29th and we're now in the week of the 13th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u255	The Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u256	That does not alter the fact that Mr Kuzu has a reasoning which, of course, also stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u257	At least thank you for that compliment. If my reasoning is maintained, this means that the Prime Minister's reasoning does not stand. Again, it is not about the weighting that is being made here. It's about duty. What I hear from the Prime Minister is that he keeps talking about the balance he made at the time. But yeah. The final point on my part, Mr President. We're talking about the week of the 29th. We're living on the 13th right now. A prime minister who is so experienced should in the meantime think: hey, shouldn't I just inform the Chamber? Maybe that wouldn't have happened in the week of the 29th, but in the days after that. Hasn't he at any point in the last few days, given a signal in the last few weeks that he thought: let me inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u258	What I considered, of course, is that a newspaper was working on a piece in which Zijlstra would cooperate, so he had decided. He would give full transparency about the fact that he informed me about then, which I also thought was extremely necessary. What I should have promoted is that this is a mistake I made and that this would of course have been reported to the Chamber on the morning of the release of the document. At least that. Then you can have the discussion whether you should have sent the document directly to the Chamber or at least a letter containing the relevant information. That's also the discussion we're having right now. I get the point. At the same time, you are asking for my opinion. I do not think it is black and white, I sincerely do not think I am trying to answer you to your conscience, because this would go out in the context of journalistic work, which would appear soon afterwards. The fact kept to itself until then would come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u259	This is your fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u260	Mr President, one final question. In his introduction, the Prime Minister referred to the Volkskrant's article as a "shit." May I ask what he actually thinks of that qualification? Does he really think it's a piece of shit? And why did he think it was a piece of shit? He said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u261	Zijlstra told me there was going to be a piece of shit, not in the sense that the Volkskrant is rotten or the piece is rotten, but that there would be a piece of information that would be very annoying for him. By the way, he had once, as he said before, to someone in December, I don't know who he told exactly who this was in 2006 and how the facts were. That's what he said in an interview sometime yesterday. That wasn't picked up at the time. He tells me this fact on 29 January or in the week of 29 January. From his perspective I understand that he says: that is not good; I just have to go outside; this must be made public; I cannot keep this secret. I didn't mean to qualify the journalistic product. It was more speaking, when a newspaper is busy with a piece that you say: yes, yes, that's not funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u262	That newspaper had already written a piece, in October 2017. I wonder how the Prime Minister dealt with that. There is a rather worrying signal that it may well be that the story the Foreign Minister had told about whether or not to be present in Putin's datha might not have been true. What did the Prime Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u263	Well, if I look back on it now, of course I blame myself, too, if you know everything now, that I didn't get into that at the time, but I didn't get into that at the time. I don't think I was the only one, but of course I'm the first to take it. That didn't happen, so you have a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u264	Then, of course, the question of reflection will follow and what that says about the way in which this Prime Minister sees and directs his cabinet. Because the Prime Minister is now asking the Chamber to believe that the Foreign Minister came to him and said: there is a nasty publication at the door. He asked the Chamber to believe that the Foreign Minister had decided at that time to cooperate and that the Prime Minister himself had said: yes, you have to go outside now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u265	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u266	I do not think I need to illustrate that there is reasonable doubt about this. So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to think carefully about the dignity he has here as Prime Minister. You need to inform the Chamber fairly. And I really doubt that that was the way things were going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u267	Mr President, that is Mrs Ouwehand's right, but I am telling you the facts as I know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u268	I would like to stress this point in order to give the Prime Minister a chance, because as soon as the reconstruction of the Volkskrant shows... The Prime Minister actually blames the Volkskrant...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u269	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u270	...that that publication has been waiting for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u271	Not at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u272	Yes, I do. That will feed the suspicions, and the Prime Minister should not want it not to go at all as he has just outlined, but it has only been decided to open up when the pressure became untenable. And that is very damaging to citizens' confidence in politics. The Prime Minister now has the opportunity to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u273	Mr. Chairman. I'm telling you the facts as I know them, and that's what the week of the 29th Halbe Zijlstra tells me: there's a relevant fact, I want to go outside; I lied about my presence in Putin's dathy, and I'm going to do that now. I'm not blaming the Volkskrant for anything. They've just done a good journalistic job. They've written a piece and he's decided to cooperate. When he told me that in that week of the 29th, I said, "Yeah, you better." The discussion we are having now, and I understand it, is about whether or not I should have said immediately in that week of the 29th: you should send a letter right now. I'll explain to you my consideration. That's what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u274	Is it true that after 29 January, last week and therefore before this debate, the Prime Minister had a so-called Goult meeting, a meeting of the VVD core team with the entire summit? In this case it was in Bergen aan Zee, if I am well informed. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u275	Yes, and then your question will be whether I discussed it there, but I also heard Mr Dijkhoff say that he heard from Mr Zijlstra last Sunday, so it was not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u276	'Then it has not been discussed there' is not quite how I think this works. Is it true that you knew there, and that Zijlstra also knew that it was above the market? And do you really want to claim, sincerely claim, that this did not come up there, while that is the meeting where you have exactly the delicate subjects...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u277	Yes. By the way, Zijlstra isn't there. Of course it was in there, but it is no longer in there and has been succeeded by Klaas Dijkhoff. Yeah, because I... Look, I underestimated the weight of this issue at two moments. That was, Mrs Ouwehand rightly refers to that, when I was not struck by that piece in October. That was one. And two, I told Zijlstra, you better come out with this in the context of that Volkskrant piece. Only then did I make the decision: this is a sin, but not a mortal sin. And I've had the political appraisal that with a good explanation, with a good explanation, he could go through with it politically. That's what I said to the media yesterday. That's how I was in the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u278	I'm really wondering if the Prime Minister realizes what kind of risk he's taking right now by holding on... He's not the kind of guy who keeps these things to himself. This is a little crisis. Maybe smaller, you thought, than it turns out to be. You can't keep that from me. That's what you discuss with others. You'll get your advice on that. Did you discuss it with any other person?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u279	Yeah, maybe in General Affairs. Actually, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u280	You know that for a fact!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u281	No, I absolutely don't. It's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u282	Mr. Chairman. We're very sorry, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u283	I understand Mr Asscher. I also understand his surprise, because we now know the political weight of this. Then it makes sense for you to say, "You shouldn't have discussed that before." I understand that, but I say to you, in all conscience, that my belief was that this could be resolved with a good parliamentary debate, including political one. If you make the distinction between no problem, an average problem and a big problem, I didn't see this as a big problem. That is a political error of assessment. Of course, Mr Asscher is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u284	This prime minister is a control freak, especially when it comes to imaging. I mean, not necessarily just negative, but that's how we met him. It can't be that if he hears something like that... This isn't a piece of shit, this is dangerous, and you realized it. Otherwise, the Chamber could have been informed. This had to be managed. This is the last time I ask: does the Prime Minister dare to say here that he has not discussed this with anyone, not with his VVD colleagues at the Goult meeting, not with General Affairs, not with advisers, not with his political assistant? Again, we're in the Lower House, so it's not quite...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u285	To my best knowledge I heard it in the week of the 29th and I told Zijlstra to come out with it. That's what he was gonna do. That would bring out the fact through the Volkskrant. I have just had the discussion as to whether I should not have done so by letter to the Chamber. I don't really remember that exactly with whom I did or didn't discuss it, but it certainly didn't seem like an item on the agenda or anything else at that Goult meeting as a big problem. I'm afraid to say it with certainty, because it also at that time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u286	It matters a lot for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u287	Why does it matter so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u288	I'll explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u289	At that time, I would like to add one short addition to it. Zijlstra would come out with it, within the framework of the Volkskrantwerk. He would. I had him on the phone from South Korea on Friday. He was in Japan, and I think it was Saturday morning, and I said, "I'll talk to the Volkskrant tomorrow." I said, well, that's very good. He called me on Sunday night and said: that piece will now be in the Volkskrant tomorrow and that is indeed a very spicy piece. I say, well, we're gonna read it tomorrow. Mr Asscher says I'm a control freak. We know each other well, we can shake hands. That was for me, too.I try to reconstruct it for myself, of course, not a point that was on the radar as something huge. It just wasn't. I know that if you look at what has happened now, the Foreign Minister has resigned, asking how, but that is the fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u290	Mr President, I propose that we suspend for a moment. We heard the chairman of the VVD say he heard it Sunday night. The Prime Minister said at first that he hadn't shared it with anyone, especially with VVD colleagues, and now he's not sure anymore, he can't say for sure anymore. This is crucial for the assessment. What it's about, I'll explain. It's about whether the Prime Minister was allowed to make the trade-off he made. Wilder's theorem that I support is "no." You can say it's a mistake. The Prime Minister hasn't done that yet. He bases it on: I underestimated it, I didn't see it that big, I didn't discuss it with other people. I would like to offer him one last chance in the sense that if he has discussed it with people, which is my suspicion, he will make that clear here. I don't need details, no call reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u291	I am speaking the truth here, whether Mr Asscher believes that truth, of course he should know, and that is to my best knowledge, really my best know, at least not as an item on the agenda or anything else, or I said to someone "well, Halbe" I just don't know, so I can't reconstruct that either...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u292	Not as an item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u293	So I can't reconstruct that and I also wonder what its relevance is, because in the week of 29 January the announcement was 'I'm going to open this up in the Volkskrant'. This has also been done by now, with complete openness. I really wonder what the relevance of that is, whether I am or not. I really wouldn't know for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u294	I want to make it very clear one more time. The 29th...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u295	Week of the 29th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u296	Then you will be informed and then you will speak of a serious fact. You speak a lie yourself. You know it's not just about a country, it's about Russia. That's not a country to ignore. You must realise that the credibility of the Netherlands is at stake, because it is the foreign minister who is at stake. In the meantime, yesterday and today, we have seen that we are indeed quoted in all the international media, that we are talking about the Netherlands. Then you have the choice whether to inform the Chamber or whether to find a first in the Volkskrant most important. And then you choose the latter? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u297	I've just been trying to answer that I've made another assessment of the impact that that would have. Mr Krol is right about that. We now have the facts, and it is now, of course, visible that this assessment was a little too lightly assessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u298	A little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u299	Well, pretty much. This is, of course, a figure of style; that is what Mr Dijkhoff just called it. I've misjudged that impact, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u300	The Prime Minister's first reaction on Monday morning to the Volkskrant article was: "It is not good and it has been unwise. But the content of the story stands. That is why he is still credible." We now understand that the Prime Minister had already been informed at that time without informing the Chamber of the fact that Mr Zijlstra had, to put it mildly, overwhelmed the story. At a party congress of the VVD he had literally talked about "war threat." War with Russia would be imminent. The Prime Minister knew then, at that time, that that was not true. And yet the Prime Minister says: Minister Zijlstra is still credible. How did you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u301	Now we have to reconstruct exactly what happened yesterday, of course, because... Ah, I am currently receiving the Foreign Affairs response to Mr Klaver's question. I'm about to read it. What happened? Only last night, of course, the image of what was shared with Halbe Zijlstra was diffused by the source. This is because of reports on the RTL site, on the site of the Volkskrant and the article that was published this morning in the Volkskrant. Yesterday morning there was another situation. But it's true that that part was diffused. There is, of course, something else not diffuse. That is why I shall come straight to the second part of my speech, Mr President. Mrs. Marijnissen will help me in that. What has actually happened in the relationship between Europe and Russia is, of course, not diffuse. So what does the source say and did that image stay a tight image? The answer to that question is: that became diffuse yesterday. We just need to be real about that. After all, the source itself says: yes, it was something else. And this morning the image was different again. But if you look at what has finally been done by the Russians over the past ten years, you just have to find that actually that story has not been the reason for the Dutch strategy towards Russia, but that the story is an expression of what we have seen in recent years. I said that yesterday when I spoke to the press and gave an initial response to the events. I can name all things. I refer to the nuclear, conventional-military, hybrid and cyber threats against Dutch, allergic and European interests. I call the annexation of Crimea. I'll mention what happens in eastern Ukraine. All these things happen. So in that respect, we have the facts. Is there also the fact that what was said to Zijlstra by that source? That got diffused, but not yesterday morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u302	The Prime Minister is taking the opportunity here to point out the geopolitical situation. This is also about the credibility of not only the Foreign Minister, but also of the Foreign Minister's office. So you knew at the time that the Foreign Minister's office was filled by someone who, to say the least, had covered a story, a story you knew was wrong. It wasn't right, simply because he admitted himself: it was a lie. Nevertheless, you say that he could still have been credible in any scenario. What I do not understand at all is that you then reason: the Volkskrant was doing a scoop and I waited for it. You say that, while yesterday the journalists in the TV programme Jinek clearly stated that the Volkskrant repeatedly asked for information from the Foreign Affairs Department, from Zijlstra, and that there was no cooperation at all. So it was not at all the case that the Foreign Minister had repented and thought: I made a mistake and I am going out with it. No, none of that: the Prime Minister has been waiting for a first for the Volkskrant. I wonder whether, according to the Prime Minister, we live here in a parliamentary democracy, or in a media democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u303	I think in both, but Parliament is obviously a priority from our part; that is obvious. There are three points in Mrs Marijnissen's speech which I should like to make briefly. First of all, yesterday in the Volkskrant paper it was announced that Halbe Zijlstra did not speak the truth about his presence in that conversation with Putin. That's one. You always have to tell the truth. So, yes, that's a sin. The consideration I've made is that I don't think it's a mortal sin. Yeah, it's a sin, but it's not a mortal sin. It's serious, and it had to go outside. That's one. Two. That image was diffused only yesterday in the course of the day when it comes to the source, which, by the way, doesn't change the facts. Because what that source has or hasn't said exactly, Russia is doing exactly that right now. We don't have to be complicated about that. The third point is why it took two weeks. That is actually the question that Mr Klaver has asked. Of course, we always try to serve Mr Klaver immediately. I have now received an answer from the Foreign Ministers. From the 29th, or at least from that week onwards, it even says here: from the 29th, together with the Volkskrant, we searched for the first possible moment for an interview. Because of Zijlstra's illness I can testify to that, because he was sick that week, quite sick even.. his trip to China and Japan and other obligations that interview was last Saturday. That was right after Zijlstra returned from Japan, still at Schiphol. So that was Saturday. It says here that this had nothing to do with training, but with being able to bring Zijlstra and de Volkskrant together for an appointment. Of course, it would have been better sooner, but there was no deliberate delay. That's what I get back from the State Department. That is also the answer to Mr Klaver's question about the story of the delay. Again, I am not aware of that. The facts are known to me. In the week of the 29th, Zijlstra tells me: I made a damn big mistake; the Volkskrant is working on a piece and in that context I'm going to bring it out and correct it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u304	I really don't understand this. Mr Rutte says: the facts are the facts. What Mr Putin is saying is up to Mr Putin. But I'd say we have all our hands full with those facts, right? In addition, you had a foreign minister who, in addition to those facts... The source that was staged says quite clearly: I do not recognize myself in the aggressive interpretation of it. The aggressive explanation is that Mr. Zijlstra told your VVD party congress that there is a threat of war with Russia. The source of it says: I do not recognize this aggressive interpretation. And yet you say: it doesn't change the facts. Is this reasoning still the basis of the foreign policy of this cabinet, I wonder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u305	I have just said to Mrs Marijnissen that the government's policy on Russia is not based on the statements we are talking about today. That is not necessary either, because Russia has been viewed for years by the glasses of their increasing threats. I just mentioned them. I mentioned Crimea and Ukraine. Look at what's happening in Kaliningrad and look at how they're doing with the Eurasian Union. They build them up in such a way that initially three but now five former Soviet states are not always members with great joy. That is the main expression of what we have seen in recent years. With regard to the pronunciation itself, the question of exactly what was said to Zijlstra by that source, you have to say that yesterday the image became more diffuse. Mr Pechtold has just referred to it. That may be so, but what is actually being done by the Russians has not changed since yesterday morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u306	Your fourth question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u307	I like it a lot, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister says the facts have become more diffuse. I think we are just dealing with a foreign minister who admits that I have covered a story; I have talked about a threat of war, but I can't really make that happen at all. I think that is a very different light on the matter. Finally, Mr President. The Prime Minister is talking about the Volkskrant who was working on a scoop. We all know that the Foreign Minister was planning a trip to Russia. Yesterday we heard from the journalists that it was finally decided to publish under pressure from the Volkskrant, which led to the paper being published on Monday. But you did not feel the need to inform the Chamber in any way. So if the Volkskrant had waited another one or two or maybe six weeks to publish, then the Chamber would have known nothing. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u308	I just gave you that answer. I understand Mrs Marijnissen's question. There is that contact now we have it even more precisely in the week of the 29th between Foreign Affairs and the Volkskrant to reach an agreement. What Mr Zijlstra told me in the week of the 29th is that he had made a relevant mistake that he wanted to correct through that piece. That's what happened. Mrs Marijnissen's question is: what would you have done if it had lasted longer? That's complicated, because it hasn't lasted much longer. So if that had taken longer, I suppose I would have said to Zijlstra: "Oh, hurry up, you'd come up with a piece in the context of the Volkskrant." But the fact is that given the agenda problems and his illness in those two weeks within a day or ten, eleven gave that interview.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u309	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the speedy delivery of information. That makes it clear. Then what I don't quite understand is this. The Prime Minister is now saying that if it had lasted longer, he would have said " hurry up," while he just didn't know what happened between the 29th and the date of publication, yesterday. So apparently he hasn't been on top of it in those two weeks. For my question to the Prime Minister, I would like to go back to the point made by Mr Asscher: who did you discuss this with or not? In that sense, that is relevant for us as a Chamber to find out how we finally cooperated. Was everything aimed at getting this out? I just can't imagine that if there's a potentially major crisis for your party, you don't discuss it with people in any way. That's not wrong, even more so: we all do that when something's going on. That is why it is difficult to believe that you have not done so. These facts make it much clearer. That is why I would ask you to reconsider this and to inform the House of who you have spoken to about it. This is not necessarily wrong, but it is precisely transparency on this issue that can eliminate mistrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u310	Of course, I just did. To begin with, I said that I made another, after all, negative assessment of the impact this would have. From that postulate I also saw no reason to set this up in all kinds of consultations. Zijlstra would come out with this fact, and I thought it was a sin but not a mortal sin. In any case, until yesterday, my absolute conviction was that this would also be resolved in a parliamentary debate in a good way, and that he would have sufficient support and authority to do so. Then there are all kinds of things, and this morning, as he said in his statement, Halbe Zijlstra decides not to continue as Foreign Minister in the national interest. But between that 29th and last Sunday, or even Monday, I didn't make a different assessment than that one might be a little naive. So it's not active in all kinds of discussions by me. Did I then discuss it with no one at all, at General Affairs or in the VVD? I don't know. But by suspending, I don't suddenly know. The only thing I can say to Mr Klaver: having no precise memory of this is also fed by the fact that I have made an afterwards naive assessment of the impact that this would have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u311	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u312	This is your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u313	I can well imagine that the Prime Minister thought that the Foreign Minister might get through this; that there would be a difficult debate, but that he could eventually stay on. I'd like to take that from him. But I am talking here to the greatest political talent of perhaps the last 30 years in Dutch politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u314	You're failing yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u315	No, definitely not. We're talking about a great political talent here, which actually says he misjudged this. I can't believe you're really not discussing this with anyone else. That is why I repeat my question, for which we do not necessarily need to suspend: consider who you have spoken to. You say that you have no active memory of this, but I can remember many crises from our party, and then I know very well at what point I have spoken to whom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u316	Yeah, but so do I in my party. That goes for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u317	And I think that's true of some of your party's superiors. And that will also be the case on this point. And that is why I ask you once again: think about it. If you want to suspend, that's fine, and if you don't want to do that, I'm fine with it. But just come back with that. It's not wrong to talk to others. But saying "I really have no memory of that" nourishes the mistrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u318	Mr President, it is the truth. By the way, Mr. Klaver is too kind to me. Because my political career is a series of errors of judgment. They are also regularly, and rightly, pushed in my face by my political opponents. On the other hand, I do that a few times. This is an error of assessment that sees how I thought this would land politically. That is also why I have not had any reason to do so and therefore have no active memory of who I have discussed this with exactly. That's what it's like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u319	The last question, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u320	I would like to insist once again on this because it is important for the Chamber to know the facts in order to be able to assess this situation and the way in which the Prime Minister has dealt with it. If the Prime Minister says that he really has no memory of who he has spoken to, then I am terribly sorry, but I find that very, very, very difficult to believe. After all, he said himself: every political party experiences something with a politician, and then you know damn well where you were and who you shared it with. I'm not interested in the assessment. I can understand why you didn't think it was as big as it ended up, but I don't think you can insist that this has been discussed with anyone. Just think about that for a second, I'd like to say, and then come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u321	Fine. I'm the only one who answers now. I hear the advice, but the answer is I have no memory of who that would be with. The fact is that Zijlstra reports me in the week of the 29th: this is playing and I come out with it in De Volkskrant. That's what happened. So I'm just looking into what my brilliant political party management would have led to. I'm looking for what would have been done by me between the moment Zijlstra announces to me "I'm coming out with it; I'll come clean," and the moment when that happens last Sunday. I don't have any reason to. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u322	Mr. President, may I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u323	No. No. Mr Krol has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u324	I'm just trying to boost the Prime Minister's memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u325	No, Mr. Asscher. I call Mr Krol. Then it is Mrs Ouwehand's turn and then it is your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u326	There has, of course, been a moment when you heard that falsehood has been spoken. At that time, you also knew that there was a source that had brought out the substantive story. Are you going to tell me that you, the Prime Minister, but also the Foreign Minister, did not contact that source in the intervening period to ask: is my memory correct? Did we really have to wait for De Volkskrant to bring that out yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u327	I don't know about that last one. We should then ask Mr Zijlstra, but he has resigned. I haven't had any contact with that source myself. No, not at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u328	After all, do you not think that you should have done so in order to make that story clear? Because then yesterday you would have had a different defense than you did now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u329	That's a crazy way of working, isn't it? Someone says to me: listen, Mark, I made a big mistake, I joked about being present at that particular meeting and I come out with it. The party congress speech was known. He says I wasn't, but that's based on a source. It would be weird if I called that source myself to ask: is it true what Halbe is telling us here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u330	I assume you at least asked, friendlyly, among VVD colleagues: who was that source then? If you knew who that source was, wouldn't it have been easy for you to call that source to ask, "Is my Foreign Secretary's memory correct?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u331	The answer to the first question is: yes, I knew who the source was. That is what he had told me, but of course with the source protection that was included and which he also maintained. On the second question I just answered: no, I didn't think I should go on the phone with that, no. I still do not see any reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u332	I'm just trying to focus on what the Prime Minister is trying to make us all believe. First of all, in October 2017, De Volkskrant was already the signal that the story was wrong. The Prime Minister here claims that he did not call the Foreign Minister at the time to say: "Oh, Halbe, what is that; is that correct? He didn't. Then we have to believe that the Foreign Minister himself said 'I'm going to come out with it', that the Prime Minister is okay with that and that it had to be done quickly. Then the Secretary of State got sick. Then there was a journey. Apparently, the Foreign Minister did not take a telephone call on his missions and there was no way to speak to De Volkskrant by telephone. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u333	I don't know about that, because of course I haven't been there. I just told you that first one. I didn't hit that article in October. I just gave that answer. Now, if you look back at the whole situation, you say that was a very relevant article. Yes, but I didn't go for it; that's the fact. In the week of the 29th I was informed by Halbe Zijlstra that he would speak with De Volkskrant. He told me that sometime in the week. We're pretending it was three or four weeks, but he had that interview on Saturday, which was a maximum of 12 days later, or ten days later, or nine days later. It's a taste issue whether you think it's too long. It was in between that he was indeed that week, so I remember, sick himself and had a few trips. When I read the interview, I can still understand it, but that's more of an interpretation of that. You'd rather do that interview sitting while you're looking at someone, rather than on the phone. That wouldn't have been a long interview.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u334	This Prime Minister is well known for keeping his rulers informed about every misunderstanding, so it's not very credible that he didn't ask Mr Zijlstra in October 2017: how about that, Halbe? It is also not very credible that the Prime Minister would want it to come out quickly and not be on top of it. The directors who make missions are also here in the Netherlands all the time. There are telephone interviews given. I'm sorry to say, but the Prime Minister can't take away the impression...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u335	No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u336	...that it's not very true what he's saying and that it looks like it's been waiting how things would turn out and that it was only then that it was decided to come out with it. That didn't happen that week of the 29th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u337	Again, Mrs Ouwehand obviously has every right to believe me or not. I'm not gonna fight about that. I can't open her head and say: you have to believe me! That's her choice in a free country. I can only call you the facts as I know them. The facts are that I did not comment on the article in October and that Halbe Zijlstra told me in the week of the 29th of January that the Volkskrant came up with an annoying piece and that he was going to open things up. I said I thought that was wise. A maximum of twelve days later, depending on the time in the week of the 29th we were in contact with, he had that interview eleven, ten or nine days later. In itself, there are also mitigating circumstances why it was difficult to set that date and I can understand it again.I interpret it as meaning that if I were him, I would rather give such an interview in person. It's about something, because you're gonna admit you've been joking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u338	Mr. Asscher, your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u339	This debate is about the consequences it can have if you do not speak the truth. From the moment the Prime Minister was informed by Halbe Zijlstra about that lie, the Prime Minister had a problem with a ticking time bomb. At that moment, he realized, as he just indicated, that this had to go outside. Zijlstra wanted to do the same. He also realized at that time that this had to go to the Chamber, but he made the decision not to go through that scoop. But then it took longer. Wilders also said it: it can be the 29th or the 30th. But then something has to go out, because it's a problem if you know something that should have been known. That is why I just asked if it was discussed at the meeting with the VVD summit and whether it was discussed with officials of General Affairs and the political assistant. The answer to that was first "no," then "I don't have any memories" and then "at least it wasn't happening." I think the latter is a lame excuse, because things like this are not going to happen. The question is whether it's been discussed. So I ask the Prime Minister: has it been discussed with others, yes or no? If the Prime Minister doesn't remember, I'm now asking him to check with the relevant General Affairs officials, with his political assistant and with the relevant other stakeholders at the VVD weekend in Goult, so that we know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u340	To begin with, it is a fact that in the week of the 29th I am informed by Halbe Zijlstra about this relevant fact and that he gives that interview nine, ten, eleven days later. He's doing exactly what he promised me. I have admitted here that I have made a too slight assessment of how it would land politically. I have no memory of whether I've discussed that with anyone exactly. I just really don't know. I do not think it is relevant, in that sense, to say that I am keeping really standing up. For what Zijlstra promises to do, he has done exactly as he stated this afternoon as a missionary foreign minister in answering the questions. He said he was gonna do it and then he did it. So yes, those are the facts. So I don't think it's relevant that I'm going to do forensic research on all kinds of people that I have to stir up in my memory. I would then be looking for certain attempts to influence things during that period, but I had no reason to do so. I'm sure of it. I had no reason to do that, because what Zijlstra promised me to do happened. So if I had already discussed it with someone, which I sincerely have no memory of, I certainly didn't have the purpose to influence the course of that process as a "control freak," as Asscher said it, in those ten days. No, I didn't have that interest, because the control freak was satisfied. Zijlstra promised to do this, and he did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u341	One last question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u342	I just asked that question like an informant question. I said, who did you discuss it with? Then the answer was: I didn't discuss it with others. Now we are at the point where the Prime Minister says: I have no memory of it anymore, and I do not think it is relevant. I'll tell you why I think it's relevant. I think it is relevant because the Foreign Minister was about to fly to Russia and talk to Lavrov about sensitive dossiers. We're in the Security Council. We have an incredibly sensitive and difficult file with the Russians when it comes to MH17. The preparations for that journey were in full swing. All this time, the Prime Minister knew that we have a big problem. It may have turned out to be bigger than you thought at the time, but you knew that we have a big problem. So it can't be that the consideration "I'm satisfied, because it's coming out fast" wasn't followed by the question "when then?" There was an interview with Zijlstra on February 1st. That is considerably closer to January 29th. It's canceled. It can't be that the Prime Minister didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u343	No, I didn't. I really didn't know that. I'd be happy to ask the State Department why the meeting was cancelled on 1 February. I didn't even know there was an appointment. I'm gonna ask now, but I didn't know there was an appointment on February 1st. What I know is that Zijlstra told me in the week of the 29th: I'm going to open things up in the Volkskrant about a fact that I didn't bring out. He later said in an interview that he mentioned it to a journalist once in December, but the fact that he had been joking about the presence at the conversation with Putin was certainly not known in the public domain, neither was I.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u344	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u345	And it's done. He did it. I understand that Mr Asscher says: in those days there was some kind of management within the VVD, saying "can we still have something like that?" But that just didn't happen. Then, of course, it's always about trust. Do you trust that answer? That is up to Mr Asscher; that is not up to me. But those are the facts. So I didn't try to influence that process at all in the VVD either. Then you ask me, did you discuss it with people? My honest answer is that I have no memory of that, because I had no interest in managing that process. Because Zijlstra would do what he promised, and he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u346	You have a second term, Mr. Asscher. Then I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u347	As a result of this question about 1 February, I would like to check whether an appointment was cancelled at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u348	Okay, well, you'll get back to that later. No, Mr. Asscher, if I allow you to ask another question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u349	Forensic evidence is not...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u350	No, Mr. Asscher. I suggest you save that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u351	The Prime Minister himself says it's about trust. Then you can't say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u352	Mr President, I am speaking about my answers, in all friendship between Chamber and Parliament. I honestly answer Mr Asscher that I am not prepared to do so, because there is no reason for me to ask all these people now: have I told you anything else about Zijlstra? I have no memory of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u353	No, Mr. Asscher. If I'm gonna let you do this, I'm gonna have to give everyone another chance. I suggest that you keep this question for the second term. Actually, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u354	I would then finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u355	I'm pretending I don't see Mr. Klaver standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u356	I had one more point to answer. That's a matter of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u357	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u358	No. I suggest you finish your sentence first, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u359	Now I'm going to go to the last question I have to answer. It is about the credibility of the Netherlands. How do we proceed with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u360	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u361	Mr. Chairman. It's perfectly clear: there's no lying. It's a sin. I have just argued that I have made the assessment that it is not a mortal sin, but it is, of course, serious when it happens. At the same time, we have, of course, a parliamentary democracy in the Netherlands, in which we eventually discuss and weigh these things together. I would have liked Halbe Zijlstra to have seen the space for himself to have that open debate here. He's made a different assessment. I fully respect that, and I understand that, given how the whole thing developed. But that means that in our country, in parliamentary democracy and also in the rule of trust between the Chamber and the Government, these matters are discussed. That is precisely why we can always operate crediblely in the end. For me, therefore, the credibility of the Netherlands is not at issue either, not in these cases or in Russia. At the same time, of course, you should not be naive about that either. We will have to work hard in the coming period to continue with a sound foreign policy, as Halbe Zijlstra has done, and thus further restore credibility. That would be my answer to that question. That seems to me to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u362	Thank you. We are now going to the second term of office. Mrs. Ouwehand, you had one more question, your last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u363	Yeah, which one will it be? Just this one, then. Did the Prime Minister, when he knew that his Foreign Minister had kept up a story about Putin that was not true, even consider for a second the discussion about what that means for the Netherlands and that it might be a reason for resigning? Or was his primary reaction: we need to see if this is sustainable in the imaging?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u364	Neither. I have always said, even yesterday in my reactions, that there are two things that I consider to be important. First of all, he's been jogging. That's not allowed. You can't lie, you can't speak falsehood about his presence at that meeting. He came out with that. That was admitted by him. I think that's a sin, but not a mortal sin. In the end, that is also a matter of weighting. As Prime Minister, as foreman of the team, of the Council of Ministers, I must weigh that. That is my first responsibility, and perhaps in the final analysis. Of course, after that it is also up to the Chamber and public opinion. But from my day-to-day responsibility, that's my job. In addition, of course, the content of the case plays a role. That falls into two parts. Yesterday it became more diffuse, but at the same time the facts about what Russia is actually doing are not at issue, of course. We are not pursuing our Russia policy on the basis of what Halbe Zijlstra heard or did not hear in 2014. But what he heard there illustrates the type of policy we need to pursue at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u365	Thank you. We are now going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u366	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to focus on the most important point for my group in this debate with the Prime Minister: the obligation to inform the Chamber. I think it is unacceptable, let me say immediately that the Prime Minister did not inform the Chamber immediately on 29 January or the following day. I would draw the Prime Minister's attention to Article 68 of the Constitution. It states: "The Ministers and the Secretary of State shall give the Chambers the information required, either orally or in writing.' I would also remind him of the constitutional revision we had and the 2002 note of the Rutte II Cabinet, which states: although the Constitution does not explicitly regulate an active obligation to provide information, the government argues in the constitutional amendment that directors must inform the Parliament on their own initiative, which can only be derogated from if the public interest of the State does not allow it. Therefore, it does not say in the Constitution that the Volkskrant "provides the Chambers individually and in a united assembly" with the information requested. And Minister Plasterk's note, under Rutte II, does not say that the Volkskrant has an active obligation to provide information. We cannot accept if we do, we cannot do our job of saying that the Prime Minister said: well, the Volkskrant was doing a scoop. Since when does a newspaper scoop go above the Constitution of the Netherlands? Then the end is gone! So the Prime Minister should have called it in, but he didn't. I'm not happy to do it, but for us to function, the only sanction on this can be that the distrust in him is abandoned. Hence the next motion. Uh, I mean, trust in him gets canceled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Prime Minister Rutte withheld information from the Chamber;]] [[declares confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u367	Madam President, if I may conclude: the Minister may laugh at a slip of the tongue just now, but this is the essence of our functioning, it is our state law. If we accept that the Constitution is being set aside by the Volkskrant, the end is lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u368	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Honesty, authenticity and credibility are such important values in politics. Especially at this time, when the confidence of ordinary people is so strained by the mouth of ordinary people, it is not only very difficult for us but also unacceptable for a Prime Minister to say: "Yes, there has been a falsehood and it has also been admitted by the Foreign Minister, but at first I thought that he might still be able to get through." Later the facts became more diffuse and it became more difficult, but at first our Prime Minister did not say to the Foreign Minister: Halbe, sorry, but this cannot go on. We think that's a bad thing. And what makes it even worse is that a scoop from the Volkskrant must force that we as a Chamber have this debate tonight. Otherwise, Mr Halbe Zijlstra would have just boarded a plane to Russia at 5 p.m. In fact, the Prime Minister says that we do not live in a parliamentary democracy, but in a media democracy. Finally. A lot of questions remain about the future. The Prime Minister didn't say anything about that. He was gonna go into that and I didn't hear it. What about our credibility abroad? What about the credibility of this cabinet and of the Prime Minister himself? All the way to the end. If this Prime Minister says that a lie is not a mortal sin but a sin, then we wonder what this Prime Minister thinks is a mortal sin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u370	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u371	Mr. Chairman. You wonder what a debate like that has turned out to be on such a day and such a night. We're actually just seeing losers. The image of Dutch foreign policy has been seriously damaged. The confidence of the Chamber has been compromised. The credibility and leadership of the Prime Minister has suffered a severe dent. But perhaps the most important thing is that the public's confidence in politics has been damaged. Today, we see that the Prime Minister himself has once again emerged from the dance. It's not for nothing that he's called Teflon Rutte. He is an experienced Prime Minister and he has seen several VVD executives leave under his direction, but learning lessons is far to be desired. Once again, he did not fully and correctly inform the Chamber. Instead of doing so, the Prime Minister, as a crisis manager, directed the farewell of his directors. And as we know the Prime Minister, he turns an elephant into a mosquito, even tonight: "I didn't judge it so well," "I didn't see it so big," "I don't remember exactly," "I don't have an active memory of it," "It's a sin, but not a mortal sin." And I can go on like this for a while. Mr. Chairman. This is typical P... Typical VVD. The last thing I want to say to the chairman is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u372	Almost a slip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u373	No, I said the VVD. But I can see that Mr Asscher is taking it very personally. But that's okay. The last thing I want to say, Mr President, is that honesty takes the longest. I would like to say to the Prime Minister: do fair politics and be honest with yourself and the citizen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u374	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u375	Madam President. It is clear that this issue has been underestimated by the Prime Minister. He himself speaks of an error of judgment. From someone who's been at the helm for eight years, you really expected something else. This issue has endangered the diplomatic position of the Netherlands. The Prime Minister has allowed that, and it's hard to blame him for that. It is unlikely that when he knew that the Foreign Minister had lied and was not present in Putin's house, he did not call the source he knew well. In any case, this Prime Minister has forsaken the proactive duty of information to the Chamber. The Foreign Minister has damaged international confidence in the Netherlands; see yesterday's and today's international publications. In addition, the Prime Minister has damaged his credibility and violated the confidence that we as a Chamber should have in our government. I don't know what the worst thing about these facts is for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u376	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u377	Mr. Chairman. It's stain on stain, excuse on excuse and lie on lie. That's what we're going through here. The impact is enormous if you are seen in this way as a member of the Security Council and an important member of the international community. I am sure the Prime Minister, with his international experience, understood that when he was informed about this. But how did it go? Zijlstra has told the story a little too well, they found out and he has added "relevant geopolitical information." That can't be sustained. It is still in the answer to the questions, but it is not perseverable what was so geopolitically relevant. Moreover, the source disputes Zijlstra's interpretation. We see that the Prime Minister and with him in his wake the spokesmen of the coalition say: it is extremely equestrian and other countries should take an example. You're forgetting we just got caught. De Volkskrant threatened to publish without hearing again and then that spontaneous interview arose. We are presented with a story of a prime minister with a huge experience, who has seen this and has thought: well, mistake, but he is going to bring it out himself. After that, he didn't talk about it anymore, he didn't inform about it, and he didn't check whether it had been clarified before the minister left for Russia on behalf of the Kingdom. It is completely unbelievable and extremely damaging. My first question to the Prime Minister is the following. He indicated that he had made an error of assessment, namely that he had not already sent a letter to the Chamber on Monday. I would like to invite him to extend this error of assessment to the moment of informing the Chamber: it should have been done much earlier. And he knows damn well. Secondly, I would like to invite him to indicate how he is going to repair the damage and to stop talking about the so-called relevance of this geopolitical information. At least that excuse doesn't last. Finally, Mr President. For the long-term sustainability of our democracy, it is not enough for us to beat ourselves up about the fact that someone is under great pressure to tell us what is going on. For long-term sustainability, it is important for the Prime Minister, who is also a successful party politician, to make it clear at all times that he is able to distinguish between national interests and party interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u378	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u379	Thank you. As I said in my first term, Mr Zijlstra was equestrian. He indicated that this situation was not sustainable. I thought it was a brave and nice farewell here in the House of Representatives. The attitude of the coalition, on the other hand, and that of the Prime Minister, on the other hand, was at odds with that. You can't insist that the geopolitical situation is so relevant. You can't insist that the right steps have been taken here. I find the way in which the coalition parties have kept completely away from the debate and even tried to defend it when they were in this place, that there is not so much wrong with it, quite shocking. I don't think that's gonna do the business any good in the end. Mr. Chairman. I have seen a Prime Minister here who seemed a little less sure of his case than is normally the case. I thought he was flabbergasting. I did not think he was giving clear answers to quite specific questions that were asked. I found the way in which it was answered too easy at times: "I have no precise memories of it" and "I have not managed all of that." We are talking to someone who has been Prime Minister of the Netherlands for years and has been party leader for many years. He knows damn well how to estimate risks. He didn't come this far for nothing. He has encountered a lot of risks in his life, and he has always managed to get around them neatly. I can hardly imagine that he really misjudged this. Mr. Chairman. Today we said goodbye to the Foreign Minister, which is very hard for him personally. Today we also saw the first big scratch on this cabinet. That is not so much because of the Minister for Foreign Affairs but because of how the coalition has dealt with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u380	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u381	Thank you, Mr President. In similar situations, I refer to the debate on the issue of receipts, and we have noted that the Prime Minister is a very competent cover-up manager. But as far as we are concerned, it is even worse that he gives the impression that he sees this as his most important task as the leader of this country. Once again, there is a crisis situation because of the circumstances with a governeer and the Prime Minister's explanation is not credible. Mr Wilders has tabled a motion of censure because the Chamber has not been informed. We are going to support that motion, but I honestly do not know whether not informing the Chamber is exactly the jumping point. It is a question of what the Foreign Minister did before he became Minister of Foreign Affairs. I asked the Prime Minister about that. He is responsible for the integrity of his cabinet members. He's making those calls at the formation. He asks, is there anything else I should know? As far as we are concerned, the Prime Minister should have seen the consequences of that lie for the position of the Netherlands, for the credible role that we could and should still play in foreign policy, for Christ's sake. We are trying to get so many countries involved in respecting human rights and you name it all. That the Prime Minister didn't have one reflection on it today that it might be unsustainable if your Secretary of State told such a lie, doesn't everything say? The Prime Minister should have had an intrusive discussion with the Foreign Minister. And the message in the direction of the Chamber should have been that the resignation had been offered to the King. Mr. Chairman. I see you're calling me to stop. I have noticed that you are afraid to keep Mr Wilders short. So I suggest you don't do that to me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u382	Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u383	I would like to finish my story, with all due respect for the fact that Mr Wilders should also have speaking time; not of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u384	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u385	The Chamber should therefore have been informed of the resignation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. All the stories that the Prime Minister hung up again tonight are complete...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u386	Mrs. Ouwehand...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u387	...unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u388	...you really need to stop now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u389	The story is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u390	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u391	... and remains that the whole thing didn't come out until the Volkskrant...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u392	Mrs. Ouwehand!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u393	... threatened to publish. The Foreign Minister didn't resign until the pressure got too high. Mr. Chairman. That is why we support the motion of censure against the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u394	You already said that. Thank you. I do not go into your comments, because I do not think they are respectful. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u395	Madam President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. For the SGP Group, there was actually only one key question in the whole debate today: is there still a future for the Foreign Minister to act crediblely in view of the painful incident of the past? He himself answered that question by saying: no, I quit. It is a responsibility that has been taken and has been held accountable. This is the end of the SGP Group. We will not support a motion of censure against the Prime Minister. I also believe that Article 68 of the Constitution is at most indirectly dealt with here, because it concerns statements made by Mr Zijlstra in his capacity as group chairman of the VVD Group at a party congress of the VVD. That doesn't make it morally different, but it does make it constitutionally. Article 68 of the Constitution states precisely that the Chamber must be sure that the Minister provides the right information, because the Chamber depends on it in its controlling role. You can say that it is all just state-law hair-clubbing, but for my group that is at least an essential element, even in this debate. Of course, it also passed on to that question: what does this incident of the past mean for the action of the Netherlands, for the Foreign Minister? That is what the debate has been about and has been justified. Once again, that is the end of the matter for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u396	Thank you. I shall now turn to Mr Buma. He's dropping his second term. Then I look at Mr Pechtold. He too renounces his second term. Then I will go to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u397	Thank you, Madam President. Members of staff, we also support the motion of censure. We believe that fundamental mistakes have been made here. The withholding of information is one. I've also been thinking about my colleague Wilders' questions before. I do not think there is any need to rule out one thing: on the one hand, you can very well decide that a minister should resign because of information that has become known, and at the same time you can immediately inform the Chamber about the reasons why you dismissed him. So that is actually a very good combination of the PVV and the FvD, which could have led to excellent policies here. That policy has not been pursued. The minister has been blackmailable. There has been an unsustainable situation, which has done an incredible amount of damage to the Netherlands. This is very bad and very bad, and the way in which the Prime Minister has defended himself is not convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u398	You have 28 seconds left, I'm telling you before I get blamed for not getting you all the space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u399	I'll give them back to you, Madam President!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u400	Thank you. I'll save it for next time. I see the Prime Minister can respond immediately. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u401	Mr. Chairman. I'll take a few more questions. I asked you to take a look at what happened to that meeting on 1 February. It has indeed been cancelled due to problems with the agenda. I'm getting this information from the State Department, by the way. After that, in consultation with the Volkskrant, we reached the appointment last Saturday. Again, it would of course have been better if that had gone faster, but there has been no training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u402	Brief comment by Mr Wilders. Excuse me, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u403	I have a very short question here. Thank you for this factual information. The question I had also asked specifically, which I do not think I have seen before in the answer, was: did the Ministry press for publication only after the trip to Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u404	There's a strong no in the public service. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u405	Please continue. No, Mr. Klaver, we're not going to repeat the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u406	No, no, not at all, but I want it to be clear that it has not been insisted on publishing this after the trip to Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u407	I'm not a foreign minister, but I trust these people. If they say no, it's no. Really, they're just good civil servants. They're not gonna lie to me here. That's just right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u408	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u409	Mr Asscher had two questions, if I understood correctly. I understood the second question better. He said stop talking about geopolitical reverberations because of their relevance. That's also a matter of how you look at it. In itself, my argument, also yesterday in the media, was that, if you look at it, Russia's policy over the past ten or fifteen years has been expanding, whether it is the Eurasian Union, what is happening in Ukraine or in Crimea, its nuclear strategy, its conventional military strategy or what it is doing in the field of hybrid warfare and cyber-threat. It is not, of course, the case that Zijlstra's speech at the VVD Congress prompted us to change the government's policy. No, that policy was already there. It is an expression of what we have seen in recent years. In addition, you can ask whether the image of what that source said and its representation is unequivocal. No, as I said in the debate. Yesterday, in the course of the day, it became more diffuse. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u410	A brief comment, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u411	Today, in reply 77 to the parliamentary questions by the government to the Chamber, it was of the utmost importance to make it known to the world 'because the geopolitical significance of those words was and is great', so we do not know what words have been expressed. My advice was, stop it. We do not know what has been said, that the interpretation differs and that there was not so much news. So this is just bullshit. Yesterday's excuse is in the answers to the questions. That's what it was about. The fact that Russia is also an aggressive, difficult player is well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u412	Yeah, but you can use that... Okay, good. I'll stick with my previous answer anyway. The other question asked by Mr Asscher was about the speed with which it should have gone outside. I assume he referred to the time between the week of the 29th, in which Halbe Zijlstra told me, and the actual conversation with the Volkskrant. I have already said that we would have wanted it faster. Maybe I misunderstood his first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u413	I would like to know whether the answer to question 77 is still the government's view or whether we should see this as a Zijlstra ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u414	Well, very precisely, Zijlstra has heard this from his source. In the course of the day, the image of what that source has said has become more diffuse. All kinds of e-mails have also come out. I can't estimate that right now. The honest answer is that I can't exactly estimate that. I wasn't there. I never interviewed that source myself. I have just replied to Mr Krol's questions. Then I also explained why I didn't, why I didn't think that was relevant. What I find relevant to report here is that the facts lie as they lie, whatever they are; but I believe that Mr Asscher and I agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u415	No, Mr. Asscher, this discussion has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u416	No, we just came to an interim conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u417	I thought you were gonna ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u418	No. The Prime Minister actually says: forget this sentence, there has been another light, so this is no longer the situation; the great relevance of that geopolitical importance of those words was nonsense. You won't say it so loud, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u419	No, you can't say that either, no. I'm defending Halbe Zijlstra. He's really convinced of what's been discussed between him and the source. The source then said that we saw it today in the Volkskrant and in other places said things about it again. Later on, emails went over that as well. So I think Mr Asscher's conclusion is too short. I thought we were approaching each other in some sort of no-man's land where we could agree together, but now he's pulling it all the way back to his side. I think that's going too far. I'll be naked on the bed again. I was looking for a metaphor: that the blanket had been drawn to him by Asscher. Sorry, Chairman. I believe that Mr Dijkhoff referred to that as a figure of style. And that failed epic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u420	Please continue. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u421	Yeah, actually, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u422	Then I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u423	I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u424	No, that's up to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u425	Oh, can't I discourage the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u426	No, that's really up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u427	The Prime Minister was working on his second sentence before he bought us his metaphor. The problem with visual thinking is that such an image is difficult to erase again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u428	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u429	He began to say that afterward he also felt that this information should have gone outside earlier and therefore also to the Chamber. I do not think he would have recognized that in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u430	In general: yes, of course! That is what I said to the media yesterday: I would, of course, have liked Mr Zijlstra to have informed me of this in the conversation at the formation. That would, of course, have been appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u431	No, Mr. Asscher, you really shouldn't interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u432	We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u433	Then it stops. I'm going to see Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u434	I had put two questions to Mr Rutte, which I have not yet heard an answer to. The first concerned credibility towards the future. I believe that the Prime Minister had said in the first term that he would put words to that effect, but at least I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u435	I did. I answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u436	What was the other question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u437	The Prime Minister states that Mr Zijlstra's lie is not a mortal sin. My question was: what does the Prime Minister think in the office of Foreign Affairs or a mortal sin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u438	That question, of course, cannot be answered in a general way. The first question is. That's what I said... Now I've lost the question. I'm still stuck with that image in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u439	I'm trying to finish the debate, but the Prime Minister is asking for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u440	Actually, the question is very simple, namely...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u441	Oh, yeah, how do you fix the image?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u442	No, no, no. The question was, can I lie? You say a lie is not a mortal sin. The question is: what is a mortal sin? So you're allowed to lie?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u443	No, you can't lie. You can't do that. That's a sin, too. But whether that should automatically lead to departure if someone admits it, I do think that is a weighting. And I made that weighing like I made her. Mrs Marijnissen's other question was how to restore that image. I responded to that in the first place. Let me outline that in two short directions. First of all, the fact that we are dealing with this parliamentary procedure distinguishes us from countries which are not parliamentary democracy in which these kinds of matters are discussed in traffic between the Chamber and the Government. By definition, that gives us credibility, even if there are difficult cases. Secondly, you should not be naive either. It will also be hard work to be fully effective again in the field of foreign policy. That is what I said in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u444	Thank you. We're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u445	It is customary to vote directly on a motion of censure. At the request of Mr Wilders, we shall vote by roll call on the motion. Mr. Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u446	I'm gonna ask for a suspension in order to confer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u447	How long? I'll take a look around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u448	I'll see you around 10:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-24.u449	I'll see you at 10:00. Does anyone object to a suspension until 10:00? I don't see anyone objecting to that. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 10:00 p.m.
