ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the workload and salaries of teachers in primary education. I would like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. Of course, I would also like to welcome all Members of Parliament, the spokesmen. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	An urgent social problem, as the Education Council recently described the teacher shortage. The figures do not lie: in 2022 a deficit of more than 4,100 fte is expected and in 2027 of 11,000 fte. The conclusion of the Education Council is clear: the continuity and quality of our education are at risk. There's no school I've been to for the past year where the lack of teachers isn't palpable. Whether it is teachers who have to come to work on their day off, or students who are sent home across different classes or sometimes even all the way home because the teacher is sick and no replacement can be found, the water is on the lips of most schools. This calls for a thorough approach and a strong investment agenda, because in addition to reducing the workload, salary and career prospects are key ingredients in solving the teacher shortage. That proves research over and over and over again. Exactly a year ago, we also had a debate here about teachers in primary education. There were so many teachers coming at them that they barely fit in the stands. It became a spicy debate that caused quite a bit of commotion. The then Secretary of State indicated that he did understand the difference in remuneration between the p.o. and the vo. It led to outrage in the public gallery. And rightly so. A year later, we're back here. In the meantime, much has been achieved: PO in action brought many, many, many teachers to life throughout the country, there is a work pressure agreement and a collective agreement has recently been reached. But the problems in the p.o. It has not yet been resolved, because the 270 million promised under the previous cabinet, which will finally be available, is only a beginning. Mr. Chairman. We want every child to be sure of the best teacher for the class and that it doesn't matter what school you're in or what neighborhood you live in. If there is one thing we can learn from the most recent Education Report, it is that segregation in our education is increasing and unfortunately it does matter who your parents are or which school you are in. The same applies to the shortage of teachers, which is an even greater problem in some schools in the major cities than elsewhere in our country. We can't accept that. A shortage of teachers does not only affect our education; it also affects the future of our country. This requires a broad vision and an inter-departmental approach, and above all a roadmap that brings the solutions closer step by step. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a concrete investment agenda for the coming years in close consultation with the field? Does he also agree with us that recognising and bridging the pay gap between the p.o. And it is an important part of this, as my motion for a resolution on this matter of December last year, which was unfortunately rejected by the smallest possible majority? How does the Minister assess in that light the signals from the field that are becoming more and more teachers in the p.o. the change to the vo, which leads to the teacher shortage in the p.o. Is it growing any further? Mr. Chairman. Back to why I asked for this debate. We were surprised to learn of the huge numbers of teachers in primary education who, contrary to the agreements made in recent years, have not made the leap to a higher wage scale, according to the sector, simply because there would be too little money. Recent research by The Correspondent, however, shows that many schools that agreed 40% teachers on a higher scale could best pay out of their reserves. How does the Minister view these figures and conclusions? How does he explain that in some schools it has been possible to achieve the objective and offer teachers a better perspective and not in others farther away? What lessons can be drawn from this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about the collective agreement. The AOb, one of the parties at the table, does not recognise itself in the percentages mentioned by the Minister. In order to avoid any ambiguity about this, how many teachers are making progress? That's where it all starts: with the women and men in front of the classroom. If we do not give them the appreciation and reward they deserve, then we are seriously failing our children and our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	When I listen to Mrs van den Hul's story like that, I wonder if she will also wonder why it is that a dynamic has finally begun, thanks to PO in Action. 'Cause that's one way of putting it. And what did that union of yours actually do, that AOb, that PvdA bulge? What have they been doing for decades? Nothing at all, as far as I am concerned, because they have plunged primary education into a systemic crisis. Can you give me an appreciation of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	Hm, this is a difficult question to answer, I think. That is a because Mr Beertema is asking me to take a stand against a union that is not ours. He makes a connection here with my party, which I would like to throw far from me. And that's b because the AOb is one of the negotiating parties in this collective agreement. I think both the AOb and PO in Action as well as others have managed to reach that table to reach a collective agreement, and that is good. Whoever represents who is in this is a question that is not for me to answer, but for the teachers in the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	Yes, but now you're getting rid of it very easily. I believe that some 3% of the members of the AOb do not vote for the PvdA, so it is indeed your club. I note that all these presidents and the whole association are constantly working on, for example, insulting the PVV and demonstrating anti-Semites in Amsterdam and anti-fascists and so on. But what have they done in terms of the core task of giving education, for which you have such a warm heart, a better collective agreement and better working conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	If indeed all members of the AOb had voted for the PvdA, we would probably have had more than nine seats. And this debate is not about the functioning of the AOb. If Mr Beertema wants to talk about this, he really must be with the AOb and his members and not with me. The further connotations he makes here I would like to address Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Of all education sectors, primary education is the sector with the least overhead: no leasing cars for school leaders and no fancy offices with high-pole carpet for drivers. However, there has been a lot of criticism in recent years, including from the CDA and from me. For in some schools the amount did increase in the bank account but the number of teachers who ended up on a higher scale was lagging behind the agreements made. Over the last year and a half, therefore, actions have been devoted to reducing the workload and to increasing the salary. Fortunately, a lot has happened since this cabinet took office. Recently, the Minister concluded a work pressure agreement with employers and employees. As a result, 237 million euros will be available next year to attract additional support staff or teachers. At school level, between educational school leaders and teacher teams, it will be decided how best to use the money for work pressure relief up to 430 million euros. A huge step has also been taken for teachers' salary positions. Teachers in primary education progress with the new collective agreement of around 8.5%. Why don't you kill yourself in other sectors? It required a special and also justified joint effort by the cabinet, employers and employees. After years of zeroing, the cabinet provided EUR 270 million at the top of the inflation correction. But the workers and employers have also stepped over their own shadow. For example, the over-statutory WW benefit is reduced, so that active teachers have more pay left. And employers come to terms with the fact that 20% of teachers have been overscaled for four years. I have often questioned this minister and his predecessor about the job mix, but in the end the money is added to the salary building in this collective agreement. I really see that as a profit, but I also have a concern. Is the collective agreement going to be affordable for schools such as De Ark in Haarlem, where the agreements on this job mix have been well achieved for seven years? On top of that, are they not going to have to pay more teachers on a higher scale? On the other hand, we have, for example, the St. Carolus School in Soesterberg, where despite a very high equity, only 13.5% of teachers are in that rightly higher scale. Are they going to comply with these collective agreements? Aren't they gonna sit for a dime in the front row? Will this collective agreement, I ask the Minister, actually be able to scale academic teachers higher, as in the vwo? In short, how do we ensure that the money available is now put in the wallet of teachers and school leaders? How's the secretary gonna check this out? Is he prepared to inform the Chamber of how the workload is actually relieved and what its effectiveness is? What does the Minister think about the fact that after the work pressure agreement and the collective agreement, the unions indicated that they would continue to take action? Will school management continue to finance these actions even if their signature, like those of the trade unions, is under both the pressure agreement and the collective agreement? Mr. Chairman. I am particularly pleased today with the good news for teachers in primary education. I hope that the higher salary and lower workload will contribute to the attractiveness of the teacher's profession. I hope that we will be able to remove this grey blanket of negativity over the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	I had to get up real quick. Mr Rog, together with Mr Van Meenen, tabled a motion a few months ago to investigate the job evaluation. That wasn't for nothing. That was to put an end to the discussion on whether primary and secondary education are different or equal, or otherwise but equivalent. The new collective agreement now includes a job evaluation and this job evaluation shows that it is of course another work, but that the weight of the work, the job evaluation, in primary education is identical to that in secondary education. What are we going to do with these outcomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	I have called on the Minister to have the Education Foundation, the Foundation for the Labour of Education, do an intersectoral job evaluation process. I don't think that's happened yet. I think your interruption is a very good one in that I would like to pass on the question to the Minister to tell us if there is any certainty that they are going to do so. I think this is an excellent task for the Education Foundation. I very much look forward to the fact that these sectors are indeed daring to look at the difference in tasks, weight and responsibilities between these different teacher positions, but that path has not yet taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	That's not an answer to my question. I asked what we are doing with the outcome as laid down in the new primary education agreement, namely a new job evaluation which shows that both professions are different but equally difficult. Let me ask you a different question. Does Mr Rog at least agree with me that if the outcome is that professions in the same sector are equally heavy and equally responsible, the only logical consequence is that they are equal pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	Two things. One: this sector has done its own job evaluation process and new scales follow from it. Teachers may assume that they are simply switched on neatly in accordance with these agreements. Two: I have asked the Minister to call on the Education Foundation to follow this path between the sectors. If that path is followed, there will be a conclusion, and only then can we see what we are doing with that return. I have indicated that I do not see how these differences are legitimized, but that is not up to me or Mr Kwint, I think. This really is a task for job evaluation experts and they will have to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have another question for Mr Rog. Mr Rog rightly noted in his speech that there were considerable differences in the way in which school administration handled the arrangements. What are the solutions? Does Mr. Rog have any ideas? Should we, for example, have more stringent controls on driving? Should we give more control to teachers? Can he take a look at solutions to these differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u14	I believe that I am the one who has been addressing the directors year by year on our responsibility since the failure to comply with the job mix agreements since 2015. After all, it was a tripartite agreement. The government also played a role in this. That's what tax money was paid to the schools for. And then I think that we should also ensure that this money reaches the targets where it should end up. I have therefore now asked the Minister to ensure, in the new agreements, that the money for which it is intended is now put into effect. That hasn't happened in four years. I think that is extremely serious. I hope this will happen with the new agreements. I spoke to the Minister about that. Yeah, I'm worried about you. A school like St. Carolus school simply places 13.5% of teachers in LB scale. I hope that the teachers' team of that school will have the same amount of teachers in a higher scale as in other schools that already fulfil the function mix agreements. I would be very sad if such a school with the arrangements that have been made could get away because he's been hiding under the arrangements for years. But, as you know, Mrs Westerveld, these are agreements between social partners. And they need to check it out. We have a responsibility to the Minister and I hope he will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u16	I thank Mr Rog for his answer. I can go a long way with him, but if you keep the rules of the game right, of course, it is a question of whether you can guarantee that the agreements will be respected in the coming years. So my question to Mr Rog would be: doesn't he think that maybe we should take a look at the rules of the game? Shouldn't we even look at the law that says something about teacher control? Shouldn't the House of Representatives be a little more strict on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u17	I really think that the House of Representatives should check the Minister and I hope that the Minister will ensure that the money we bring together as taxpayers for education reaches the goals we have. We have included in the coalition agreement the agreement that we are going to monitor this more closely and that we may impose sanctions on it if it is not complied with. I think this is necessary, given the experience of the recent past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the outcome of the collective bargaining. I think this is a good negotiation result. Employers and employees have done a good job by achieving a nice increase in wages for the sector. I had four points in my mind which I hoped would be covered by this collective agreement: a higher final wage to make the profession more attractive, normalization of the super-statutory regime to give more room for salaries, an exception to the chain clause and the better teacher should be able to earn more. Mr. Chairman. The final wage is going to increase and this, in my opinion, increases the attractiveness of the profession. Fortunately, the super-statutory regime is being standardised. That's gonna make more room for pay. And there will be an exception to the chain determination. But unfortunately, the VVD finds, there is not enough attention for the better teacher. The new collective agreement rewards the number of years for the classroom rather than the qualities of a teacher. How do you hold young, talented teachers when less performing colleagues can earn more? We hope that it will be possible to achieve a better reward for the better teacher in a future collective bargaining agreement. Because not only the salary, but precisely the quality increases the status and attractiveness of this wonderful profession. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet, of the VVD, the CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion, has made 430 million available in addition to the 270 million for salary increases to reduce the workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u20	Let's get back to Mr. Lordema's paragraph about the better teacher. Do I hear correctly that he is advocating the introduction of incentive payment in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u21	I can imagine that a teacher who does better work should also be able to earn more. So as far as we're concerned, there's no problem in the teacher's room. If I look at the criteria for the new scales L10, L11 and L12, LA is actually similar to L10 and LB to L11. And if you want to be LC, so L12, you're gonna have to do something extracurricular. I think that's crazy. I think that if you're just a teacher doing a really good job, you shouldn't be stuck in L11, but you should be able to go on. After all, you're just an excellent teacher for that class.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u22	We'll find each other here. I'm afraid the rest of my colleagues are horrified by this. But is it just a statement here, or are you going to take action here as a government party, as an important government party, when it comes to the government agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u23	The coalition agreement is concluded. I have just mentioned what resources have been made available for education. I don't see where more space could be right now. Should space arise somewhere in the course of time, I will at least say from my party: this is what I think is important to get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u25	I hear Mr Beertema saying that this is actually a bit of a cry of hearts. Well, I have literally said that I hope this will be settled in the next collective agreement negotiations. I will come back to that quality of teachers. The VVD is very satisfied with that process of working pressure. At every school where I come to my work visits, I hear purely positive stories about teachers who are allowed to decide how this money is to be used within the school. I am very curious how these millions will eventually be deployed by the schools. Mr. Chairman. I'm the father of a high school kid from today on. My daughter Benthe grew up four years old today and on Friday she has her first day of school. As a father who had to choose a school, I paid particular attention to the quality of education, teachers and results. We have been investing more and more money in this education for years. Investment per child in education has only increased in recent years. However, the quality has not increased. In fact, it seems to have been falling for years. With this investment of over EUR 700 million, we can therefore expect more quality. Quality must be the basis of this sector. A teacher who gets more salary does not automatically become a better teacher. Maintaining talented teachers, because the perspective is better and because they can be better rewarded if there is evidence of better education. That's what makes education attractive. I can't wait to see the quality results of this massive investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Benthe on her 4th birthday. I wish her a very nice school time. Then so does Mr. Heerema. My own granddaughter goes to school in exactly six months. The only person who's worried about that and nervous about it is Grandpa. It's gonna be okay. We hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u28	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, is the clock on yet? Mr. Chairman. I'm going through it fast. Today we are discussing very good news for the almost 78,000 primary school teachers in the Netherlands. That's not that it's almost summer vacation.That's nice too, but that eight months after the big strike in the Zuiderpark an average wage increase of 8,5% has been achieved. D66 believes that teachers in primary education have earned it. After years of stagnation, this cabinet invests 270 million in teachers' salaries. It is part of a broader investment in primary education, because, of course, there is also a structural 430 million per year to reduce the workload. In October it's a big party, because around the Teacher's Day the teachers get 42% of an extra monthly salary and a bonus of €750. For a teacher in a class with 25 children, this means on 1 September that he will get an average of €250 gross and €3,800 to make investments that reduce the workload. These are important steps to re-appreciate the important, perhaps the most important, profession of teacher and to give the best education to children. Can the Minister explain how the Rog/Van Meenen motion is being implemented on the job evaluation process? This has just been discussed. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the elementary school boards have not all complied with the appointments around the function mix. The promise with the function mix was to put 40% of teachers in a higher salary scale in 2014. In 2017, this had only been achieved by 26%. The money that was available for this did not end up in the right place. And this while special education and secondary education have complied with the agreements. The school authorities, many of them at least, have been disappointed in this. D66 welcomes the fact that responsibility has now been taken and that the 70 million earmarked has been added to the salaries. However, I agree with the questions put by Mr Rog on this matter. In the coming years, the teachers, the participation councils and the politicians will be closely monitoring whether these agreements are being complied with. The open site Functionmix.nl is a very good way to carry out this control. Can the Minister explain whether a similar site can be established with agreements under the current collective agreement? Mr. Chairman. Then the normalization of the super-statutory arrangements, as well as the function mix, a result of, let me just say, the policy of this cabinet. It is precisely here that we keep the pressure on the boards to ensure that this is also involved in the increase in salaries. Supplementary benefits have been standardised by shortening in size and time. However, there remains a bridging allowance from eight years prior to the retirement age. D66 would like to shorten it further. In the coming years, expenditure on this benefit will increase due to an ageing population. This is at the expense of the salary of young teachers. Experienced teachers are essential for knowledge transfer and learning for the classroom of new teachers. The regulation should therefore encourage as much as possible to continue teaching until retirement, especially in view of the shortage of teachers. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister has previously promised to draw up a letter on the shortage of teachers. In the negotiating agreement, the partners ask for a discussion with the Minister on reducing the hours standard while maintaining educational quality. I'd like a response from the Minister in advance. Can he further elaborate this option in his letter on the shortage of teachers? Finally. Probably few teachers have the time to follow this debate. There may be a few of them, but most of them are hard at work at school at this time. This is always a messy, but beautiful time. Through this way I would like to wish the teachers good luck with the last pieces and wish them a well-deserved holiday. On to a better school year for you! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr Van Meenen briefly referred to the job evaluation. He has, of course, also read the conclusions now laid down in the collective agreement. Does he therefore share the necessary conclusion that primary and secondary education are basically of equal value and equal weight and therefore deserve equal pay, even if we do not have to settle this right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u31	The same motion recognizes the gap that exists. I can go along with what Mr Rog, the first author of this motion, said. I would say: let the Education Foundation now show what it is worth. There are all the employers and all the unions from education together. It is really a very important task for the whole field of education to implement this now. Then we will be able to see what is going on with this comparability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u32	But we do not need the Education Foundation for that. The function rating system is not something you draw on the back of a beer skin. There have been agreements, there is a whole method for that. This method has been applied in primary and secondary education and has led in both cases to equal appreciation or severity. We can now ask the Education Foundation for the form, but do we have all the information that the Education Foundation will eventually be working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u33	It is not for nothing that we have tabled this motion to ask the Education Foundation. I'd like to have a reaction to that first. It would be very strange if this motion were not to be carried out first and we would draw our conclusions on the basis of separate collective agreements, each with its own course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr Van Meenen rightly mentioned the site of the function mix as a good example of transparency. You can see on each school board to what extent they have or have not complied with the agreements. I also checked a number of schools myself. Mr Van Meenen says: we should actually do the same with the agreements in the collective agreement. I agree with him. That's good. Then you have transparency. But then what? What if it turns out that a number of school appointments are not being properly observed? Then how do we solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mrs Westerveld asked Mr Rog a similar question. She actually asked: shouldn't we also look at our system? I think so, too. I really think that for too long now we have seen that there is too much room for certain school authorities to go their own way and not to take up enough of the agreements we have made here and the goals we have agreed with each other here or that the field of education meets each other. I really think that we should do something with this, but I think that this debate is broader than this debate, because that is also about agreements other than just money. I would like to speak with you on that subject on Monday. I'll certainly do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet invests an additional 1.9 billion a year in education. After years of austerity and filling one hole with another, there is serious investment again in the future of our children. The sector which benefits by far the most from this is primary education. And that's good. In recent years, the primary school teachers have been offered a lot, but they didn't get anything. The profession was right to revolt, thanks to the boots-on-the-ground movement PO in action. This cabinet invests in teachers' salaries and makes additional money available to reduce the workload. It was therefore good news when we heard on 6 June that employers and employees had reached a negotiated agreement on a new collective agreement for primary education. The social partners will ensure that the extra money reaches teachers as soon as possible. New, more modern job descriptions have been developed and the wage building is being addressed. The pay scales are being tackled and there will be a substantial increase. Every teacher benefits from this. Mr. Chairman. Good agreements have been made on the division of work and on investing responsibilities as low as possible in the organisation. Because teachers are ready to take matters back into their own hands when it comes to the future of their profession. I'd like to call on the government and all the parents to support the masters and girls in that. They deserve our respect because they are busy day in and day out with our children, with the future generation, and with that the future of our country. The resources for reducing workload can be used by schools as they see fit. The Ministry is not interfering, and that is also good news. Does this make everything okay? No, definitely not. The shortage of teachers is far from being resolved. And teachers are often caught between the demands of the government and the expectations of the parents. Moreover, these expectations of parents are fed by the extremely ambitious statement by then Secretary of State Dekker, who said that every child is entitled to appropriate education, while at the same time freezing budgets and moving the entire system to the region, including settlement. Parents' expectations are sky high, and more and more social problems are entering the classroom. And it's becoming more and more obvious that the school solves it. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union sees the school as a value community of teachers, parents and pupils together. Teachers and parents have a joint responsibility. And it's not for nothing that parent involvement is the most important indicator of a child's school success. The fact that it still matters where your cradle stands is largely due to the parents who are or are not involved in, interested in and talking about school education. The coalition agreement states: "Schools, children and young people are flourishing in parental involvement, and that is why we want to strengthen cooperation between school and parents." My question to the Minister today is: how is he going to give concrete expression to this phrase in the coalition agreement? If parental involvement is such a determining factor for a child's school success, if we know that in addition to regulatory pressure from a demanding government, demanding and not involved parents thus contribute to the feeling of working pressure on teachers, how will the minister strengthen cooperation between school and parents? Mr. Chairman. That is my question to the Minister today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u38	I have another question to ask Mr Bruins about the differences in schools, which I have just mentioned. Does Mr Bruins agree with me that the shortage of teachers in some schools in large cities has different effects and is therefore more palpable than in other schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mrs van den Hul asks me a question that I feel I could hardly say no to. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u40	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u41	I wonder what exactly she's getting at. So let me say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u42	My question was actually more concerned with Mr Bruins making a link between parental involvement and inequality of opportunity. I see this connection between inequality of opportunity and differences between schools, especially in relation to the shortage of teachers. My question was, in fact, does Mr Bruins agree with me that inequality of opportunity goes beyond mere parental involvement, but that this also has to do with fundamental inequality in distribution, for example between neighbourhoods and between schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you for giving me a further explanation. We often talk about segregation in this room. There are clearly identifiable gaps in our society between practically and theoretically educated people, between people on high and low salaries. Between people of origin from this country and from other regions. There are fundamental gaps in this country. We see this segregation in our society. That's what the Christian Union is worried about. It also translates into differences between schools, because schools are part of our society and are located in all kinds of neighbourhoods. We see that there are also schools that are just a gathering place for children of all grades and classes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u44	But now the answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u45	I like that very much. We also see that this is particularly happening in education. But segregation is seen in society and so it translates into school practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u46	You have explained it, but you have really addressed the questions in concrete terms, otherwise it will be a theoretical discussion. Finally, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u47	I have still not heard an answer to my question as to what Mr Bruins thinks of the relationship between the shortage of teachers and the inequality of opportunity and the segregation in schools. Does he agree with us that in some schools in some neighbourhoods, teacher shortages are even more problematic than in other schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u48	If I may read the question in such a way that Mrs Van den Hul says that the shortage of teachers in some places in the Netherlands is more urgent, more acute than in others, I can also imagine that some teachers find it more pleasant or less enjoyable to teach in some parts of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Chairman. The bullet's through the church. There's a new collective agreement. Let's start with the good news. There is a collective agreement, I must say. The good news is the increase in wages and the addition of the money from that failed job mix to teachers' wages, for which that money was, of course, intended. Because those results, it has been said before, were really nothing. The good news is also the way in which this agreement was reached, by confident, action-prepared teachers who no longer let themselves be driven with a brat. Moreover, these confident teachers continue to do so, because the wage gap mentioned above with, for example, secondary education is not being closed, while, as I said in an interruption, the appreciation of these functions shows that, what the SP has been saying for some time, there is no justification whatsoever for this difference. Now it was CDA and D66 among others who wanted this research, so what are we going to do with the outcome? I was just asking. Since the previous cabinet freed up extra money for teachers' salaries, this cabinet has, of course, not added anything to the workload money on that essential point. But when you see the effort, for example, when you see the fanaticism with which these four parties, against experts, against their own official advice, want to give 1.6 billion to foreign investors, you sometimes wonder where the priorities lie. Do you now choose to delete, for example, the dividend tax, or do you opt for good education with a fair reward for our teachers? Because yes, steps are being taken, but there are still a lot of questions to answer. For example, the 8.5% I have already seen in several places, how exactly is it built up? We are overwhelmed with tables and information, and I appreciate that, because then we can see for ourselves exactly what is happening. But for what group of teachers does that 8.5% count? How many teachers actually advance 8.5% and what teachers are they? The problem in our education is getting huge. The shortage of teachers is threatening to plunge our education into a crisis. Not only are we saying that not enough is happening now. The Education Council is also calling the alarm clock. I challenge anyone here who has read the report: call me a moment when the Education Council has called more loudly than this time. I've checked: the Education Council has been around for 99 years. No one can be surprised by it, because the combination of salary, workload and status has been mentioned for a long time, by opposition and coalition, by government, by teachers, by unions. The question to the coalition and the cabinet is a very simple one: do you believe the analysis of the Education Council? Do you share the conclusion that what is happening now is good and progress, but that it is not enough to reverse the major problem of the approaching shortage of teachers? The Education Council also warns that the status of the profession should be improved. The status of course depends on the reward but also on other matters. The worst thing you can do, then, is morter to the demands. Together with colleague Westerveld I have made a call about a one-year teacher training programme. We think it's an impossible task. The profession of teacher is too complicated to learn in just one year. Does the Minister share our view that the struggle for the status of the teacher's profession is poorly combined with these kinds of steam courses and preparations for a life for the classroom? I have another question about the negotiated collective agreement. There was also a motion from me and Mr Bertema (27923, No. 286) on driver's salaries in education and training. I was wondering if anything would happen to that in the forthcoming collective agreement. As much as the SP appreciates the wage increase that is now being offered, you do not bridge the gap with the average HBO. You don't bridge the difference with people in other places in education. We are not catching up at international level either. Does the cabinet think that this is enough to convince people to go into education? The SP's call for the future of education is clear. Draw the only possible conclusion from the study that teachers in primary and secondary education have an equal occupation and opt for equal pay. Guard the quality of our teachers. For example, stop hunting temp agencies on teachers. All this can be done from those pennies that are now in danger of being thrown across the border to shareholders. And then there's money left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u51	Abrupt ended your speech. Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that there is a new collective agreement for primary education. A first step is taken in increasing teachers' rewards, but we're not there yet. It is not for nothing that the first annex to the collective agreement contains a salary table setting out what would have happened if EUR 900 million were allocated to salaries. It is clear that all the parties at the negotiating table really want to achieve this, because everyone agrees that the profession of teacher should become more attractive. What about the Minister? Do the new collective agreements give such an impetus that we can solve the shortage of teachers with this? Or does he agree with the negotiators that the salary table in the annex to the collective agreement should actually be the aim? Mr. Chairman. Making the profession attractive is not without reducing the workload. Of course, an agreement has been reached on this earlier, but I noticed something about this collective agreement. Education support staff can play a very important role in reducing the workload of teachers, but I did not read much about this in the collective agreement. I ask the Minister: is it not even time to look at the job description of this silent motor in the schools and the salary they deserve? Good training also contributes to the appeal of the profession. Mr Kwint referred to this. We've been asking questions about the one-year master's programme. I would like to ask the Minister: how can this training cover 240 credits? Is that even possible? Is that even allowed? Mr. Chairman. The Minister informed us that the salary increase in 2018 amounts to around 8,5%. More parties have already asked questions about this. I agree, because the General Education Association, which was at the table itself, does not recognize itself in this percentage. As has been said, this collective agreement is a step in the right direction, but with this collective agreement the problems have not yet been resolved. The teacher shortage must become a top priority, because we all know that by 2027 we have a shortage of nearly 16,000 teachers. We are already seeing the bad consequences: children being sent home, classes too full and too high a workload among teachers. Over the past year, I have put forward different solutions with colleagues. In one of my first debates, for example, I asked the Secretary of State, Mr Sander Dekker, to draw up a concrete plan with very concrete targets and very concrete objectives. The Secretary of State didn't want that, neither did this Minister. He actually said, "We're already doing things." I agree with him, but I still think it is right to make a coherent plan with concrete objectives. The Education Council also says that. How does the Minister respond to that letter of fire? In the budget debate in December, I called for an accessible website with information for study voters. That website has the Ministry now. I ask the Minister if there are many people coming to see it, what the number of visitors to the website is and whether there is a picture of what that does for prospective study voters. Moreover, we know that we can easily solve the shortage of teachers if we find a way to get those 31,000 people who are already part of the quiet reserve back into the classroom in primary education alone. Two-thirds indicate that they are open to that. Have any attempts been made to reach these people? Then the function mix. Ten years ago, it was agreed that 40% of teachers should be in LB pay grade. We all know this didn't happen. Then the question is why it didn't work out. In this context, the correspondent's investigation has been cited. This shows, for example, that many school boards had enough financial resources to pay for these higher scales. Is that right? Is it true that year after year out of the 70 million was not spent on the purpose for which it was intended? Then where'd the money go? For the future, these agreements on the job mix will no longer matter, because the new collective agreement has decided to use the 70 million to increase salaries. But it still feels uncomfortable. A number of colleagues have already asked questions about this. Should participation no longer be involved in school policy? We see in the agreements on the work pressure agreement that teacher teams want to be involved, and that this works. Does the Minister see a role for the participation of teacher teams in more places and if so, does he want to strengthen that participation? Control contributes to quality in schools and the basis for the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Finally, Mr Bertema, on behalf of the PVV Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. The trade unions and the employers' organisation PO Council must be ashamed of themselves. They've been busy with everything and everything in their important organizations. The AOb has been busy insulting the minister at the time to accuse me of racism, that sort of thing. They were always very good at that. At my express request for this to be done, how and where have I made racist statements? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's never been an excuse. No, apparently the AOb still thinks I'm a racist. They're calling it out, they're holding on, without ever making it happen, and that's it. Well, that's how the AOb rolls, but that's certainly not the only reason they should be ashamed of themselves. The concept of a cao agreement that is now in place is years too late. For decades, this worthless union, this parasite at the expense of gullible members, has neglected its core tasks, as has the PO Council, by the way, that it has brought primary education to the brink of ruin. Under their eyes, there was a system crisis that was unprecedented. The beautiful profession of teacher was stripped to the bone. This agreement seems to be a step in the right direction, but it is a very small step. The problems remain extremely urgent. There is a shortage of teachers in the po, rising to 10,000 FTEs in 2025. That's not just a problem, that's a system crisis. I've said it before. Is it or is it not the case that 270 million of this cabinet had already been committed by the previous cabinet? The Minister also mentioned an average salary increase of 8.5% for teachers, while the collective agreement agreed an increase of 2.5%. Why this discrepancy? Now it's getting interesting as far as I'm concerned. The agreement also talks about making career paths attractive in the p.o. by more function differentiation. That always sounds nice and attractive, but what does that even mean? A teacher must be a teacher in the first place: teaching and transferring knowledge to subsequent generations. It must be a pedagogue who loves teaching and working with a classroom. That's the essence of the profession. We can't solve the shortage of teachers by focusing on people who simply and exclusively opt for teaching because there is an attractive career path ahead? A quick next step, which ends in its own office, of which there are already far too many in education: team leaders, coordinators, counselors, counselors and so on. The agreement hardly pays attention to the professional space that the teacher needs to make the profession really attractive again. Of course: better salaries, better contracts and less workload are all important. But what can make the profession really attractive again is not seen by the unions and the PO Council. 'Cause that's not like getting into an office as soon as possible. But: to make full use of your own professionalism as a pedagogue in complete freedom, without having team leaders, coordinators, executives and directors breathing down your neck. The teacher in the center of the teaching process, the only process that matters, in any school, and the austere and modest management around it as a serving and facilitating force: believe me, Chairman, only in this way will we succeed in making the profession attractive again to large groups of boys and girls who would really like to go into education, but do not do so because they do not want to have a professional life in which they are the pull dummy of managers with large egos and of the bread professors of the eternal educational renewals. We believe that the Minister has done his utmost to get the teachers in the p.o. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The teachers have more reason to thank the minister than those charlatans of trade unions, by which I do not mean PO in action, the only union worthy of the name union. Finally. The recovery plan takes time. A nice step has been taken and the Minister has made the most of it. That's all there is, that's all I'm convinced of. But the unions have already announced that new actions are not going to happen. According to AOb and PO in action, approximately 600 million is still needed to correct teachers' salaries, but there is no such money. What is the value of this agreement if the educational associations have announced yet again new actions before the ink of signatures has dried up under the agreement? Then don't sign it if you find this agreement unacceptable. As far as I am concerned, further action, after a great deal of aplomb has been achieved, is really unacceptable. You can't do that to the parents. I'm just warning you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister can answer directly, but I actually want to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u56	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to Members of Parliament for their contribution in the first term. Mr. Chairman. There are sometimes important events, serious or sometimes very enjoyable, of which you know years later exactly the moment you heard about them. When it comes to serious events, I have it myself with 9/11 or with the MH17 disaster. I can still go all the way back to those moments. At pleasant events, you can have that, too. Next weekend, my grandson will be 1 year old, and I remember exactly how I felt and where I was when we heard he was born. Perhaps the collective agreement we are talking about and the moment I heard that it had been concluded may also be put into that list. I was in Venlo. It was June 6th and we had just talked quite extensively with representatives from vo and p.o. on the State of Education, which we will also discuss with the Chamber next week. Then I got the call from the chairman of the PO Council, Rinda den Besten, who said: we have a negotiating agreement. I know, and you know that too, that the various supporters still have to give their consent. Only the AVS has done so officially. I saw a poll of "PO in action" which looks hopeful: it seems that it will work there as well. I therefore hope that the various grassroots groups will very soon have to agree to the negotiating agreement before 2 July. Then I dare say that a memorable collective agreement has been concluded, which, as far as I am concerned, can be credited with capital letters in the collective agreements of primary education. On my part and on the part of the cabinet, I would also like to congratulate the representatives of the employers and workers who have worked on this. It really is a very nice result. I believe that this has also been emphasized by the Chamber in the first term. That result could be achieved because there is pay space, which is used. That could also be achieved, because this cabinet I mean: a cabinet can say that something is important, but in the end you just have to do it and make money available for primary education, to spend on teachers' salaries. This result could also be achieved by the fact that money already provided for the function mix, which will eventually be included in the collective agreement and in wages in the near future. In our view, that money was initially not used for the purpose it was intended for. I will come back to the function mix separately later. They are very nice appointments, which ultimately also lead to substantial increases in the salary of teachers. I will come back to what this will mean for teachers. That's what the Chamber asked for. I also like the collective agreement, because steps have now been taken in the case of the super-statutory unemployment scheme, which has been asked by the cabinet to normalise at least that. You know there was a lot of resistance to that before. We have also discussed this extensively in the Chamber at various times. But in the end, the parties involved in concluding the collective agreement, the negotiating agreement, have also taken steps here, and I would also like to congratulate them, particularly the unions, such as AOb, CNV Education and PO in action, which have also been involved in this. I'm glad that happened. Madam President. I also like this collective agreement, because this collective agreement is also a very good first step. You know what first steps can mean; think of a certain Neil Armstrong. It's essential steps. It has a major impact, I think, if you conclude a collective agreement with confidence in the professionalism of teachers and teams, and if teams also have control over, for example, the division of labour, and if unnecessary rules will be removed. I welcome this collective agreement, which is therefore a very good first step. I also hope that in future collective agreements you will also know the duration of this collective agreement, which will continue and continue in this direction. I also understand that that is the intention. Mr. Chairman. In view of what has been agreed, the cabinet has said: this collective agreement meets the conditions that we as a cabinet have set out to make that extra money available, which is 270 million, the amount that was on the shelf, I say a little bit domestic, in order to finally incorporate it into salaries. This money will be made available to teachers and these super-statutory regulations will be standardised. That goes even further than what the situation is at present. If the grassroots have finally agreed to this collective agreement, we will make that money available as soon as possible. It is expected that the teachers will receive more money from September. The support staff is also getting more money from the wage room that is created. It is expected that this money will become available and that they will actually see it in their bank account. There's been some discussion and there were some questions. How much is the increase in salary? What are we supposed to think about? Let me say the following. It has been used for one year of the wage space that becomes available. That is the 2.5% Mr Beertema also referred to. It's for all the teaching staff. All those involved in the school will receive a one-off payment of €750 on 1 October, I say that out of my mind. That's on a full-time basis, so if they work a little less, it'll be a little less. They can calculate that in this way, but that will be paid into their accounts in October. Teachers receive even more money, because for teachers the 270 million is processed. That's about 6%, if you convert it, which they'll get extra. 2.5 plus 6 is 8.5%. We can all, I think, figure it out. If these amounts are paid out, it means that for teachers it is an average; there will be something underneath it and there will be some above it............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In 2019, also looking at the collective agreement, extra money will be added, because then the amount of this job mix will be incorporated into the salaries. If you want to convert that back into percentages, you could say that there is still 1% and then the average is even 9.5%. So I do understand that the AOB didn't recognize the 8.5%: it's more. It is 9.5% if the function mix is processed. So the teachers also receive that amount of €750 one-time benefit, but for them, I would say, the party is even nicer, because they also get another €1,250, on a full-time basis. So the teachers get an average of that in October; there will be some underneath it and perhaps a few above it will still be paid some €2,000 nominally occasionally. Those aren't small amounts. I always call that the category "no small beer," so to speak. If you look at the collective agreement that has been concluded for the vo, because there is also a discussion about... You didn't bring it up, but I'm going to make a comment about it. There were teachers who said: 'hey, we thought we had a nice collective agreement, 2.5 % ahead'.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I thought we were gonna close that gap. Now it's only getting bigger!" The one who spoke to me about this was heavy in the minor. How the hell is this possible? This 4.5% is due to the fact that it has concluded a collective agreement which lasts for more than one year. What did the vo do? It has already looked through the eye hairs to see what is about the wage space that could be created in 2019. That is what we have just agreed on. So that has already been involved in the current agreements. That means 2.35% for the first year, where the p.o. 2.5% and 2.15% for the second year. You'll get to 4.5%. It is therefore not true that the collective agreement would be better in the case of wage increases than in the case of wage increases. I hope that I have been able to explain this in a clear way too. If it's p.o. It would have done as it did, so to speak, could have added another 2.15% or 2.5%. This would even have resulted in a wage increase of 11.5% to 12%. Anyway, they didn't. You can do it. It also shows some sobriety, so to speak, to wait until you know exactly what the reference space is, as we call it, and at that moment you are going to switch. However, there have also been multiannual agreements in the HBO and in the wo have been reached and progress has been made on the expected wage margin that could arise. If it's not the way you thought it would be, and it's worse, then of course you're gonna have to take care of it. Hence it is sometimes useful to just close it for one year and wait until you know for sure what the wage space is in the year in question. All in all, I have to say that if you get this straight and you realize what is happening in the rest of the Netherlands when it comes to salary increases, I think it is quite right that something should be done here, not only in this cabinet period, but also in the previous one; fortunately this cabinet can do something because money has been made available for it. Fortunately, I have already met a lot of teachers who have also noted this with gratitude and see it as a piece of recognition for the work they do. And so it is. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about the function mix fees: what exactly is this about? I think Mrs Westerveld said: it feels a little uncomfortable. Yeah, I kind of get that, too. I can feel the same discomfort. I am glad that we may be able to put an end to it now, because that discussion was dragging on. Indeed, this was Mr Rog very often asked for attention to it, but others too were annoyed. Money was made available for a specific purpose, but it was not used for that purpose. At least not in a way we thought we agreed. That money was spent in other ways. That will undoubtedly have been a good destination in the school, but it had not ended up in the place for which it was intended. Now they've made agreements. A calculation has been made, which we finally approved, namely that 70 million had not yet been spent. The agreement has now been made that those funds will eventually be used as from 2019. Then you could say that those who have done it nicely are, in a manner of speaking, a little punished for that. I think Mr Rog spoke a little in that way. Well, that's kind of the inconvenience you're feeling. On the other hand, I am simply pleased that the funds are being made available, that they are being used for a collective agreement. All in all, we have said: okay, then we agree with that. But it is indeed a warning for the follow-up of the work to follow it closely. I will come back to this later, because some of you have asked questions about this too. I mentioned percentages. What is it going to mean for people in hard euros? Because that's what we are, of course, and in the end we just say, "What's the difference?" Well, it's moving pretty good. A starting teacher earns about €3,000 per month. This is an improvement on the old collective agreement of about €150 per month. If you end up in the L10 scale from the L10 scale, grow for ten years and reach the next steps, you end up earning about €3,900 per month. Then you will get around €400 on top of this collective agreement compared to the previous collective agreement. If you're up to the maximum, you're at about $5,000 a month. You all know that this is about one and a half times the salary that Modal Netherlands receives. Then I think you'll earn a very decent salary for the important work you do as a teacher. Mr President, this is due to the question of what is going to change with this collective agreement if the various supporters involved in concluding this collective agreement will also be able to vote in favour of it, and if I am also entitled, on behalf of the cabinet, to ensure that the money ends up in the places for which it was intended. Maybe one more comment about the time it took. It took 14 months to conclude the previous collective agreement. This has been realized in a much faster time frame. I am very happy that it did not last as long as last time. It is important now how the building will be redesigned. You can set up a building that looks nice on the outside of the building that indeed looks very good.... but it now comes to the furnishings of the building. I hope this happens soon. This will perhaps mean a bit more work for some of the people involved to get to work on this during the holiday. I hope that this will be done as soon as possible in the autumn and that everyone will know where he or she is going to end up in that building with the new job profiles as they have been described. Mr. Chairman. I'm excited about these job profiles. I am enthusiastic about the way in which this has been written down, because it describes very well how a teacher can develop. A teacher starts out as a skilled group teacher after all, that is that teacher at the time he or she graduates and already reaches a school and can continue to grow and become an experienced teacher who has certain specialisms that can be used within the school or perhaps even in the school association to which the teacher in question is a part of. I like the fact that these profiles have been more concrete than ever to describe what is expected of the teacher in the various scales, what responsibilities they have, but also how it is ultimately valued in euros. It is therefore logical, in itself, that one also wants to see added value in the activities that are carried out and in the specializations that have developed them. For example, if a teacher has further specialised in ICT and its application, he can also share this with his colleagues. That teacher can coach and support them in that. That's just really nice. In a number of schools, I've seen teachers who have maths as a specialty. More and more people are given a very specific responsibility, sometimes even over all groups. It may also be that someone has language or remedial teaching as a specialty, or you name it, what there is all about specialisms in which a teacher can develop and grow. It's wonderful if that's appreciated in the salar. If someone gets any higher, I wouldn't want to say that negatively, for example, they could also be given a project leadership in the improvement projects that are set up within a school or perhaps even in a school context. Maybe that person can be given a responsibility for that. Mr. Chairman. It stands and falls with the way in which this is completed. How are these teachers eventually scaled up? That is the next step when the collective agreement is officially concluded, and that is very crucial. That trajectory is very important. There are some concerns among MPs about how that will go, also considering that this function mix has not gone smoothly in the past. I think that not only we, but also those involved in a school who are now responsible for filling this out, have learned lessons well. I hope so, too. I hope that the mr will be involved very carefully in close consultation with all those involved in the school, and that is even what the negotiating agreement says will come to fruition. I hope that is the last sentence I am saying here, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. We have now agreed to this in the actualisation of the sector agreement, because that is also crucial in order to ensure that this important content is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u58	Good. Then I'm going to see Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u59	The Minister praised the new job profiles. From the new job profiles, logically, a new job rating also comes. The Minister is Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and is now faced with two values that are identical. Does the Minister agree, without having to arrange it immediately this afternoon, that these job assessments are identical and have been set up according to the same system? Does he also share the basic premise that there should ultimately be an equal pay against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u60	I have, of course, seen how job ratings have been written down. I have also just made it very clear that it is now up to those involved in the school to finally implement it, so to place the teacher in the job profile and to give a good place in the grading. This will also have to be made clear in the end how one appreciates and, possibly, if you would like to look at the vo with an oblique eye, the differences would be with the vo. But it is ultimately about the work that must now be done in schools. That's putting the teachers in the right places throughout the office house, with the salary that goes with the tasks they have. I cannot go into that, because that must be done in the schools. That's not our position. However, we have made a lot of extra money available so that we can do this in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u61	No, this is a little too easy. It is specifically about the comparison between primary and secondary education. There are two ratings. Those ratings are identical. The professions are valued as equally heavy, responsible and important. Now the Minister says it's up to the school boards. No, you can't. Schools and trade unions have both, in order to enable this rise in wages, also given room and leave things to increase teacher salaries. However, according to the Minister, it is not the case that school boards now have the space to provide all the staff in the p.o. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers is designed to improve the efficiency of the internal market and to improve the efficiency of the internal market. Isn't that just a lack of money to be made available by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u62	The way in which a person is rewarded and the level of the reward depend very much, of course, on the specific circumstances. Is it a starting teacher or a teacher who's been with us for a lot of years? Is it a teacher who has all kinds of additional qualifications, so it is also justified to place him in a higher salary scale? That assessment, that consideration, has to be made at school level. And at some point there is also a limit to what one has budget for scaling up. That goes without saying, but it will be specifically different per school what the space is, or perhaps the cut-off, in relation to the choices that need to be made. You can never make very generic comments about the whole of the Netherlands. After all, you have schools where the teachers' corps is very young and is still in the start-up phase, also with regard to the salaries. This is a very different situation than at a school where many teachers have been working for a long time and are higher in their salary scales. We can't determine that remotely. That will have to happen there and nowhere else. That is not easy, but that is simply a matter of: where are the responsibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u63	I really can't imagine the Minister not understanding my question. Of course there are differences between teachers, but that is also true in secondary education. We shouldn't pretend you don't have teachers there who just started. There's a lot of them. My question is very simple. Is the Minister, like the SP, of the opinion that a just starting teacher in the p.o. and a colleague in secondary education with the same qualifications, have the basic right to equal pay if the conditions are exactly the same and everything is identical, except that one teaches in primary education and the other in secondary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u64	We are now calculating what is ultimately the effect of the funds that have now been made available on the basis of the agreements made in the collective agreement. We are now going to name the scales in a different way, and we are also looking at the way in which this is happening in the vo. Then you see, for example, that the differences between starting teachers in the p.o. and are virtually nil in the vo. They've become very small. But if one wants to scale a teacher a little higher in the p.o., if one has room for that, then one can again come out quite differently than with the choice one has made in the vo. I am not saying this to complicate things, but in the end the choices have to be made there. We don't make them, they make them. That's the way it's supposed to be, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u65	I would nevertheless like to mention the differences between academic teachers in the p.o. and the vo. Where previously in primary education all academic teachers were basically in L.A. and in secondary education in L.D. that's a huge difference. Those differences now seem to be reduced. My question to the Minister is whether such an academic teacher in primary education should, by definition, be removed from the classroom. Actually, I'd be very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u66	In this sense, there should be nothing; that is a choice made at school level. That is actually a bit of the answer I just gave to Mr Kwint. If you have academically trained teachers in a school, and I believe that it can be a huge added value for a team if you have such people in between, it is ultimately up to the school to decide how that person is to be deployed. By definition, it doesn't have to be that you pull him right out of the classroom and put him somewhere in an office with all kinds of tasks. There is absolutely no need for that, but that is not what we are talking about. It is important, however, that the way in which it has now been set up, including with the job profiles and the like, and also with the salary, offers opportunities to give these people a good place with a salary that goes with it. But that choice must be made at school level. That is why I have just called for this to be done with care and for all those involved in the school to sit on top of each other and have good discussions about it. Then it also happens satisfactorily, but he doesn't have to leave the class. That is a choice that one makes with one another.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u67	I very much agree with the Minister. That is what the social partners are about and that is what it is about at school level, but the new job building does give the impression that if you get into a higher scale and are, for example, an academic teacher, you will by definition get out of the education process. Once again, we are not talking about this; this must be done at school level. I would only welcome it if such a teacher, as in secondary education, could simply be a full-time teacher and be busy with those children in the 930 hours of the 1,659 hours he can stand in front of the classroom. I would be very sorry if we actually lost these teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u68	I just indicated that this is ultimately a choice to be made by the school. I think it is very good to use the skills that the academicly trained teacher brings and which can really have added value in a good way. You know that in the State of Education we are going to talk about this on Monday - it is seen as a weakness in schools that sometimes people do too little with the results that are being achieved. These should be analysed and, on this basis, considered how to increase quality. Such teachers who have research skills and skills and are trained in them could of course be used very well to do so. I do not know whether this can be fully combined with a teaching task, perhaps that we should create some room for it. But it's up to the school to do that and please let it happen there. If we have to deal with this here or as ministers, we will really find ourselves in a place where I do not think we should be. I see you now lift your hands up. We really need to stay far away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u69	Also on this subject. In my opinion, the Minister started off well that with specialties, for example, you can be well appreciated in different classes within a school. Then the Minister continued on a number of parts where you are indeed pulled out of the classroom in order to be able to get into a higher scale. I already mentioned in my contribution that things are expected of you outside the class in order to score so that you can end up in L11 or L12. So I do not share the Minister's euphoria that this offers a lot of opportunities. Leaving it at the schools in this way, in my opinion, means that too few teachers who simply stand in front of the classroom and do fantastic work can earn more. I think that is what we are aiming for. My question to the Minister is as follows. You are probably going to consult with those in the field about this at a very large number of times in the coming period. There will be a new collective bargaining agreement in March. Are you willing to give this signal and take it with you in the run-up to that negotiation, because in the end the better teacher for the class should also be able to pay well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u70	I very much agree with the latter. I believe that I have also made it clear that the impetus given by the cabinet by making money available to it also leads to good salaries which are ultimately far above average. So one gets a good salary. The beauty of the way it is constructed now is that function differentiation can also take place. It's always hammered out of the Chamber. We think it is important that teachers can specialise in certain tasks and share that knowledge with their colleagues. That, too, is reducing workload in schools. Because if everyone has to school and make sure that that knowledge is present, then you know what is going to happen in such a school, because there is a lot to be done. I welcome that space, but the way in which it is filled in is ultimately a choice that must be made by the schools themselves. Your message is clear and will undoubtedly be listened to. And, of course, we'll talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Lordema, would you like to ask another question? No? Then I suggest the Minister move on. I would also like to know how far the Minister is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u72	I'm way ahead of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u73	That's...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u74	Maybe another 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u75	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. It has to be done inside the schools. That's important. In the end, it is also a question of whether this will help to tackle the shortage of teachers. Some of you have drawn attention to this. Let us be clear that the shortage of teachers and the problems surrounding them are very serious. Indeed, given the way the labour market is developing at the moment, the prospects indicate, so to speak, that it is all hands on deck. That urgency is felt very, very deeply. I have discussed this intensively with the Chamber a number of times. You know that there is a very clear integrated approach. It has also been discussed with the Chamber and not only the Chamber, but all the other parties involved in education have been able to make comments. As you know, they are lines of action and there is support for the different approaches we are trying to tackle this issue with each other. One of those lines of action that affects this morning's issue is to improve remuneration and career prospects. With this collective agreement and with the agreements that are being made, I believe that very clear steps are being taken that can help, even if this is the case with the next stage. That's very exciting, but that's where it has to happen eventually. Then, of course, there are many other activities and actions that are already taking place and will have to continue to take place. Madam President, this is rather beyond this morning's agenda. I therefore propose that we discuss this further at a later date. I intend to send a letter to the Chamber before the recess. In that I indicate a kind of intermediate position that shows what we've been working on since our AO. It also contains the opportunities we still see to take further steps. At the moment, we are working very hard on this. In my view, this also offers opportunities for a broader understanding of this issue. There are some of you who say that there are concerns about it: as the salary between p.o. and do not coincide completely one-on-one, then an overflow of teachers from the p.o. to the vo. Here's what I'm gonna do. We'll follow that. By the way, we also find it quite beautiful in a number of ways that the landing is there. He is also the other way around: from vo to p.o. This is to a lesser extent because it is also simply a question of mobility within education. In other places in the same sector with a different type of pupils, with pupils of different ages: it can just be very beautiful if this development is possible for teachers. The corresponding figures which we know indicate that the overflow of p.o. is relatively limited to vo. About 400 teachers make the switch, and about 130 are coming back. Of the approximately 130,000 people who are in the p.o. Working it depends a little on whether you assume full-time or even converting it into persons.............................................................................................................................................................................................. So that's still to be seen. That's a little bit different from the fact that I see a nice side to this as well. That number may well increase a little. Recently, when I had a conversation with a number of teachers, I heard a lecturer say: "I only now have it figured out. I've never seen it, and now that I know this, maybe I will." But I don't think that's ever gonna be ten- or a hundred-fold or anything. So it is now clear, and in a number of ways even recommend, that this mobility is there. This is without prejudice to the fact that, of course, we will continue to do everything we can to appreciate the teachers in primary education as we believe it should be done, by expressing respect for them and by appreciating them in their professionalism. Fortunately, in conversations I myself have with teachers, I also note that they are pleased with the way in which politics has been working over the last few months with the workload that they are under, and with the resources that will be made available for it, namely EUR 430 million in 2020. There will be a moment for the monitor; I have promised the Chamber that I will inform her about it. Mr. Rog asked for that. That letter also comes to the Chamber for the recess. In addition, the teachers are very happy with this money for salaries. There will be substantial increases in salaries, including in percentages. They see this as a piece of recognition of their work and the trouble with which and the circumstances in which they sometimes have to work. It's very nice to hear that from them. Of course, that's why we're doing it. It is ultimately in the interests of the children they work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u77	The minister says he'll be here before the summer with a response to the Education Council's letter of fire. That's good. That won't make much difference to the Chamber, because the coalition parties thought it was a bit messy to have a debate on this before the summer. So I guess that's what we're gonna talk about after the summer. But I do ask the Minister to respond to the common thread. The Education Council says very clearly: there are good initiatives and a lot is happening, but ultimately what is happening now is not enough to reverse the crisis that threatens to arise in education due to the growing shortage of teachers. I do not think it is too much to ask the Minister to reflect on this. How does he see that? How does he see the conclusion of the Education Council, does he share it? And in what direction does he seek solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u78	I myself have not yet discussed the Education Council's opinion in the context of the letter I am sending. But it is true that I will respond to that. I am currently asking the various parties involved in education how they respond to the opinion of the Education Council. In the meantime, I expected to have all the reactions in, but some are shooting a bit over the requested external response date. Otherwise, I might have been able to say something about that by now. In the opinion of the Education Council, I read a very clear expression of the fairly comprehensive approach we have, as well as an emphasis on the great urgency of this issue. But in that respect, let us also look a little more broadly than just education. The labour market is rather overheated, to put it this way. This affects not only education, but also care and the whole security sector. Recently, last week, you received a letter from the cabinet saying that. We have also said to each other that we need to pay attention, because we are now, so to speak, all going to the same people. So we need to know very well what we are doing and what our potential is at a time when the economy is thriving. It's going really well. That's what a lot of people see in their salaries, too. But a number of sectors also see this in the fact that it is just a lot more difficult to get people. That means we have to do everything we can. Education is even more difficult in this respect than other sectors. There are sectors where one can say: sorry, we have no people or too few people; it takes a while for us to help you. I spoke recently to someone who bought a house. He wants it to be built now, but the contractor said: sorry, I can't start until spring 2019. So he's just gonna have to wait. There are sectors where we can say: we have waiting lists; go behind you; there are a few more waiting and you will be next. It is, of course, different in education, because these children are simply entitled to education. We also want them to be taken care of in the schools. Sometimes it doesn't work and classes have to be sent home. This is extremely annoying, but in education we continue to make maximum efforts to fill out the empty spaces. That's a lot to ask. This ultimately requires that all those involved who have a place in this area should, in particular, mention the boards, the directors, who even have a primary responsibility in these matters, make every effort, within the possibilities they have and by pulling together, to deal with this major problem of increasing deficits and try to reduce them. Preferably up to zero of course; that would be the most beautiful thing. Then we have a lot of work to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u79	The minister mentioned sectors such as security, police, care and education for a reason. It is not directly his fault, because it is a perfectly logical consequence of the years of predatory work that the VVD has committed with several other perpetrators in the public sector. If the economy attracts but wages lag behind, people are gonna do something else. I don't find all that surprising. But he says about the report of the Education Council: I see that as a support for an integrated approach to this urgent problem. Does he at least share my conclusion that the report of the Education Council does not read as much as support, but rather as an appeal to do more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u80	If you read the report correctly, perhaps it goes too far to go into it in too much detail. That's the part of the report that's been most obvious. I do not want to anticipate my reaction very much later, but I have some hesitation with a national task force, because that will be a whole group of people who are probably very busy, even though we have just indicated that it is in schools, and when it comes to the lack of teachers, that is what I say right away in the regions. I myself would like to see much more of that now, and I am thinking here of the fact that perhaps there will be even more intensive and intensified activity in these regions and that employers will play a very important and important role in this. They are ultimately primarily responsible for ensuring that employees come to them. I see employers doing very well and where the problems are also less serious than some of their colleagues. It would be good if they exchanged what their success factors are: what are they doing extra and perhaps better than their colleagues, which might reduce their problems? This also applies, for example, to the heights of absenteeism. They're very different, too. I think that's a very interesting one. That's what I'm thinking about right now. I hope to get back to you on that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u81	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u82	I believe that the idea of this task force was not launched because the Education Council has now devised something new and brilliant. The Education Council says the following. "For years we have seen a problem with the shortage of teachers, with the status, workload and reward. We see things happening. Those things aren't enough, but we can't get through to the Ministry and the House of Representatives." As some kind of desperation offensive, a task force will only be launched. That task force? I don't think it's very relevant by what means we'll eventually settle it. The call is correct: do something about this shortage, about the status, the workload and the salaries. That is what the Cabinet is doing, but it is not enough to avert this crisis now. Does the Minister share that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u83	We have regular consultations with the Education Council. The contacts are intensive and the lines are short. Indeed, reducing the workload and the level of salary are part of the approach to the shortage of teachers. There's a lot of investment in that. I think we're taking some really big steps in that. That will be shown in the next progress report. But we also have the problem of the silent reserves, which was also mentioned here. In the po are about 30,000 people, some of whom may not come back, but some of them might. That is something that needs to be addressed. That's what we're doing. We call upon those who have a clear responsibility in it and have a commitment to it. I have also spoken with you about the Participation Fund and everything that is happening there.... to try to reach those people and get them to go back. We also hold regional meetings for this. I hear here and there that sometimes this is successful, but not in such numbers that I think: we are really making meters. I just mentioned the approach to absenteeism. The absenteeism is really too high in some schools. We must never regard that as a fact. Maximum efforts will therefore also have to be made to reduce this absenteeism, which also affects the number of teachers available to stand in front of the classroom. There are a number of things I can mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u84	No, I wouldn't, uh...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u85	I don't, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u86	...because Mrs. Van den Hul also wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u87	...it's all hands on deck. All those involved must turn their shoulders against each other in order to do what is within their capabilities. Then we'll get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u88	That's what you said. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister appoints one of the letters of fire which we have recently received about the shortage of teachers, namely that of the Education Council, but there was another alarm clock that was recently sounded. That was the State of Education and the Education Report which we will also discuss in greater detail in the near future. My question to Mr Bruins earlier was, do you see that relationship between the lack of teachers and inequality of opportunity, how do the two relate to each other? I am therefore happy to ask the Minister that question. Does he agree with us that the lack of teachers in some schools, in some neighbourhoods, creates inequality of opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u90	When a school, wherever it is situated, does not have enough people in the school to carry out the work that one has to do, there are, of course, always problems. This means that the children who enter the school may sometimes receive less lessons, that certain subjects may then be given less. This can, of course, also happen in the case of women, where there are also shortcomings, as you know, where it is sometimes very difficult to find teachers or teachers who are also sufficiently qualified. This means, of course, that something less is happening with what we want to transfer there with each other than was intended. This increases the urgency of doing everything with each other with all those involved. It can never come from one side, it can never come from The Hague alone. Employers, employees and the parents who have just been mentioned here, I shall come back to that in a few moments, mention all those involved, but at the same time we will have to make every effort to do what is within their capacity and responsibilities to deal with these shortages, at an age when the labour market is hot and it is also very difficult for more sectors to find suitable people. So that's quite a task. I'm not gonna make it smaller, we're gonna have to get together for that. And as a cabinet, we are also very busy working on this during the time that we are now in office, even in summer time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr. Chairman. That wasn't my question. My question was, does the Minister agree with us that in some schools it is more difficult to find teachers than others? What encourages the inequality of opportunity and segregation, points that jump out of the Education Report as major exclamation points?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u92	We will continue to talk about the Education Report on Monday, but one thing has triggered me very much in that Education Report. That is that in neighbourhoods where there are different schools, which therefore have to do their work in almost the same conditions with the same funding, there are such great differences. With that question, I've traveled across the country. I'm going to tell you more about it on Monday. I've talked to a lot of people there. So it stands and eventually falls with what happens inside that school. It's not necessarily the case that schools in what you called disadvantaged neighbourhoods... Oh, I thought that was the word you used, at least neighborhoods where maybe the problems are bigger, shall we call it that? Indeed, I think that is a much better wording. It is not the case that in such neighbourhoods the quality of education would be many times less or less than in schools where these conditions are somewhat better. If that were the case, we would have had the button, as we sometimes call it in politics, to turn it on properly. There really are differences between schools. It stands or falls ultimately also with what happens within such a school, with all those responsible there within that school. Anyway, we're gonna talk about that on Monday. It is a very fair question from you, and I think a proper analysis from the education inspector to bring this to our attention. But also a fantastic topic of discussion, as I have also noticed, with all those involved in education, who realise very well what their responsibilities are but who do not always manage to fulfil them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u93	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u94	Yeah, I'm gonna finish up. There was another question about the Rog/Van Meenen motion on the intersectoral job evaluation process that had to be promoted. I have asked the Education Foundation, as you may expect me to do, nicely to respond to this. I have the impression they're still studying, because I haven't had a reaction. I hope that's gonna happen soon. When it comes to parental involvement, that is also an agreement that has been reached in the coalition agreement. The questioner is in the middle of a conversation, so perhaps I should wait, Madam President. Of course, there's a formal entrance through the mr. I have already spoken to the Chamber there and said that we will see if we can further strengthen the Mr's involvement and position on a number of issues. You know, for example, that there is a right of assent to the school plan and that I am in the process of establishing an advisory right with regard to the definition and modification of the school organisation policy. That's what we talked about when we talked about group size. So through the formal process we are looking at whether we can further strengthen not only the position of the parents but also the position of teachers. In recent weeks, we have had informal discussions with a large number of stakeholders around parent organisations, but also with people who were allowed to talk from other angles. We are also evaluating the effectiveness of parents and education. Let me put it this way: what are they doing there and how effective is that? I intend to inform you further after the summer, after the recess, about the elaboration of the coalition agreement on the basis of these activities. So they're working very hard on that. Madam President, I think I have now answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u95	I do not entirely rule out the fact that I missed the answer, but I had asked about the transparency of the agreements made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yeah, that's true. I'd say something about that. I myself have spoken about the urgency of the proper implementation that will be achieved if the negotiating parties have agreed. I have indicated that it is quite crucial. In the function mix we finally made the data transparent and made available.It was of course a separate appointment via DUO. I believe that drawing up the collective agreement is the responsibility of the social partners. What I can do is deliver data via DUO and make sure that they are also accessible. I will also discuss this with the Councils, in this case with the PO Council. I think it is important that we can continue to follow this with each other in the coming time. I would very much like to prevent us from having these discussions again when we have talked about the function mix. So that is a promise in your direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u97	Okay. Mr. Kwint, did you leave a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u98	Two, in fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u99	Two, in fact. Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u100	Yeah, I'm not walking forward for nothing. The first question concerned the Kwint/Beertem motion (27923, No. 286) on directors under the collective agreement. The second was about the one-year teacher training programme in Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u101	These are questions which, as far as I am concerned, go a little beyond the scope of this consultation. I will inform the Chamber quite soon, even before the recess, about the execution of a large number of motions. This motion is also part of that. So you'll get that information between now and three, four weeks. How much longer are you gonna go on? Three weeks. So it's coming in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u102	Well, count for ten for three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u103	Now we are discussing who may or may not be part of their influx, whether those people are going to get a place in education, and what is the value of the training they have had, I think that is a bit too far for this moment. I have answered the written questions in detail. As far as I am concerned, this can be taken into account in tackling the shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u104	I'm having a little trouble with that anyway. Together with Mr Kwint, I have asked two questions about the one-year teacher training programme. There have just been a few questions left, for example the question: is that allowed at all, those 240 credits in one year? If we cannot ask that in this debate, we can put down a new set of written questions, but that seems to me to be a little exaggerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u105	I think I have answered the questions in a rather detailed way. There have indeed been two questions asked about it. I think this is really part of the approach to the shortage of teachers. It is, of course, up to the Chamber whether or not it invites me to speak on these subjects as well. But I think it's a little out of order to start raising these kinds of questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u106	Yeah, I'm fine. I now understand from my right hand that there will be a legislative consultation on education next Monday. Is it possible that the questions will be answered before Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr. Chairman. The questions have been answered. I understand now, however, that people would like to talk about the questions. It is up to the Chamber to arrange that and invite me to do so. That's how it works here, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u108	Yes. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u109	The questions have been answered, but not to the full satisfaction and that is why...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u110	Ah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u111	I have not yet had an answer to a number of questions, for example whether it is permissible for an education to end 240 credits in one year. Through a short calculation, this results in 17 hours of study per day, without holidays and without weekends. We had no response to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u112	I believe that I have answered all the questions well, but if there are any further questions to be discussed on Monday, and those questions are given to me, then I will see to it that they are answered on Monday, because it is very annoying if the Chamber has an unsatisfactory feeling about the answers to the questions we have given carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u113	As a former Member of Parliament, you also know that it is not always easy to raise certain questions immediately. Does Mrs Westerveld agree that these questions will still be given, so that the Minister can look into whether they have been answered adequately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u114	That seems to me to be a good solution for now, but I had another question that has not yet been answered, or I must have missed the answer. That question was about the expectation. There is now a site of the Ministry on which more information is given to side-intromers. In that context, I asked the Minister how that works and whether there are enough people coming for it. What are the expectations when it comes to the shortage of teachers? Is there still a deficit of about 16,000 over ten years, or has that number been reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u115	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u116	Our expectation is that, if everyone is to make the most of it, we will be able to make considerable success in this respect too, but in the context of an overheated labour market where it sometimes seems like you are rowing against the flow. It's not easy. I do not know exactly how many people have visited the site, so I would ask Mrs Westerveld to include that question on the list. Then we'll take that Monday too, as far as the details are known in such detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u117	I thank the Minister. I'm gonna take a look around to see if the MPs need a second term. Mrs Van den Hul certainly does, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have three motions for resolutions on today's debate. The first concerns the inequality of opportunity and the segregation that we have just discussed in the debate on the interruption. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the current and increasing shortage of teachers can also make a negative contribution to the equality of opportunity for pupils and may have an impact on segregation; noting that the education annual report on 2016/2017 of the Education Inspection states that shortage of teachers may also lead to limitations in opportunities in the long term; noting that the annual education report also states that schools with a "more challenging pupil population are suffering more rapidly from the growing local shortage of teachers"; calls on the Government to conduct specific studies on the impact of the teacher shortage on child equality and to inform the Chamber and the segregation thereof for the forthcoming budget; and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Westerveld and Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u119	Let me explain, Mr. Chairman. I think that a number of colleagues, including myself, feel that this motion is actually much more relevant to the debate that might take place next Monday. This does not, in my view, affect anything we have exchanged today. I think there's a little hesitation there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mr. Chairman. I understand the consideration of the colleagues I see frowning, but in my opinion it is very important to keep an eye on the specific situations in the policy we are discussing today. It must not be a one-size-fits-all policy for everything; it must pay attention to the differences that exist between the various schools. That is why I have tabled this motion in this debate, but it is certainly a subject I would like to discuss on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u121	I would like to ask whether the tabling of this motion is sufficiently supported. I'm in on it myself. As I see it, that is the case now and it is part of the debate. She's getting No. 310 (27923).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Education Council, in its recent letter of fire to the Minister on the acute and large shortage of teachers, stated that relatively low salaries in primary education in particular did not make the teacher's profession sufficiently attractive;]] [[noting that the Education Council will issue a long-term opinion in the autumn with a view to attracting sufficient and good teachers to the classroom;]] [[calls on the government to prepare an investment agenda for teachers, including teachers' salaries, for the coming years, so that we can be sure of sufficient and good teachers for the class in the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u123	Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Education Council, in its recent letter of fire to the Minister on the shortage of teachers, states that the quality of education and thus the shortage of teachers affect society as a whole and should therefore also be dealt with interdepartmentally;]] [[Considering that the Education Council is proposing a Task Force on Teacher Deficit to boost the resolution of teacher shortages with a directional role for the Minister for Education and a role for several ministries in view of the social impact of the teacher shortage;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare and inform the Court of Justice of the establishment of such an interdepartmental task force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'll do that very briefly. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his contribution to the debate. I am also pleased that he has promised that there will be transparency about the implementation of the policy. My concern is that I would just like to stress again that this is particularly true of the schools that in the past did not meet the function mix. I would really be sorry if they were in the first grade for a dime and eventually the schools that were well equipped would get into trouble. That is a matter of concern to me, and I just want to emphasise that once again. I also very much hope that, after this fantastic agreement, the Minister has once again calculated how much progress the sector is going to be able to find each other and are pleased with the results that are now being achieved: a truly substantial improvement in salaries and a real amount of money to deal with the workload. This is very important, and I very much hope that we will support this and depart from the negativity that has unfortunately hit the sector in recent times. That is understandable, but with good policy it can really be a thing of the past as far as I am concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u125	Thank you. You would be very brief, but you stayed exactly within the speaking time. I give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u126	Brown?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u127	Sorry, Mr. Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. I will try to keep it shorter than Mr Rog. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive and good explanation of exactly what is happening financially in the sector with all these salaries. I think it was a very clear explanation and that teachers now know what they are getting. Thank you for having that knowledge of things so well and for explaining it to us so well. I also agree with what Mr Rog said about how the sector should look to the future. Excellent words; I like to agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u129	Thank you, Mr. Rudmer Heerema. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr. Chairman. I also thank the Minister and add: teacher is the most beautiful profession there is. That's what I'm saying from my own experience. I am pleased that we have been able to see today that we can make a contribution to giving that profession even more glow. I hope that we will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen, that is indeed very short. Then Mr Bruins, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his excellent answer. In particular, I would like to thank him for the commitment that we will receive a letter after the summer on how this cabinet will deal with the issue of parental involvement. I thank you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u133	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Then I will go to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u134	Thank you. The minister took a very, very long run, and didn't jump: a very long answer, which in the end wasn't an answer. Does a teacher in primary school who is completely identical to his colleague in high school make the same amount of money or not? If the Minister doesn't take that leap, the Chamber will have to do it. Therefore, a motion, which does justice to the importance of teachers' work in primary education. It is also a motion that can avert new actions/strikes and that can really hurt the lack of teachers, even before we finally, far after the summer, start talking about it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new primary education negotiator agreement includes an updated job evaluation similar to that of secondary education teachers;]] [[considers that equal weight in the same sector also includes equal pay;]] [[noting that the current financing of primary education makes it impossible to reach agreement on this between employers and employees;]] [[calls on the government to take steps to achieve a level playing field in the current cabinet period, i.e. salary, of teachers in primary and secondary education now that the job evaluation has been levelled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "We must all make the most of our efforts to combat the shortage of teachers," I hear the Minister say, and I agree with him. But we're not here yet, and that's why we're making a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that if nothing happens, there will be a shortage of 16,000 teachers in 2027;]] [[noting that there are 31,000 people with primary education qualifications who do not work in education;]] [[Whereas two thirds of this "silent reserve" are open to working in education;]] [[calls on the government to draw up an action plan to activate the silent reserve to work in education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-314]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u136	Then the second motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u137	Oh, Mr. Rudmer Heerema has a question on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u138	I have a question. We had a general discussion some time ago, in which we talked extensively about the silent reserve. At that time, I believe that the Minister also promised to look into the possibilities of getting that quiet reserve back to work. So I wonder where this motion comes from, because I think the Minister's commitment is long overdue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u139	The Minister has indeed said that he is working on it. In the meantime, I have seen few very concrete actions. Perhaps the Minister can answer that in his reply. If it turns out that a lot is already happening, I'm prepared to hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u140	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u141	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that teachers' teams have an important role to play in the use of the resources of the work pressure agreement;]] [[Whereas participation of teaching staff contributes to the quality of education and the acceptance of agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to use the experience gained in the work pressure agreement to come forward with proposals to strengthen the participation of teachers' teams in the elaboration of agreements in the collective agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u142	A brief comment on the one-year teacher training programme. The reason why I believe it is part of this debate is that we are also talking here about the attractiveness of the profession. I have already informed the Minister that I do not think it is right to ask for 240 credits in 13 months. That means about 17 hours of work a day. I don't think we can, but we'll give the list of questions to the minister and then we'll talk about it on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u144	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister just as warmly for his answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u145	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members of Parliament for the comments that have been made and for the support I have enjoyed in some of the contributions. It is quite a solid portfolio on this subject, and I believe that everyone should also contribute to it. This exchange between the Chamber and the Cabinet is also part of this exchange to achieve good choices, which can also have their effects and repercussions in the field of education itself. I shall now turn to the motions that have been tabled, and I must say something about them. Motions have been tabled here on subjects on which I have not yet been invited by the Chamber to enter into consultation. In fact, subjects where we are still preparing to send the Chamber a good letter on these issues. Motions can of course always be submitted, but... This applies to the motions tabled by Mrs Van den Hul. Her first motion concerns the annual education report we will be discussing next Monday. Her other two motions concern the writing of the Education Council about the shortage of teachers, where I myself indicated to the Chamber that I am still writing a letter before the recess and in which I will also comment on that advice. In order to put forward motions on this matter now... So I'm just dissuading all three of these motions. As far as I'm concerned, this is not quite a pleasant way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u147	Those are the Minister's bold statements. We are talking here today about a collective agreement. We are talking about a work pressure agreement here today. We're talking about the teacher shortage here today. We consider it very important to look at these three issues in the light of emergency clocks that have recently been sounded from the various institutions that the Minister has just mentioned. That is why I think it is important to take that consideration into account in this debate. Indeed, the Minister is right: we are still discussing this on Monday, and I am certainly prepared to hold my motion on segregation in education until our WHO on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u148	I was invited to a debate on the workload and salaries of teachers in primary education, not a debate on the shortage of teachers. I did say something about this, because I do believe that there are similarities, including with the approach we have to take to the shortage of teachers, particularly with regard to salaries and career prospects. I have also addressed this, but the opinion of the Education Council is about the overall breadth of what would or would not happen on this subject, and that, I think, really requires a different moment and also more time to talk about it. I'm in the process of informing the Chamber in a letter how I'm going to respond to that. I think that should be the time to see if that is enough. If this is not enough for the Chamber, then it is of course its full right to table motions for further tightening up. But now it is really hard for me to respond to motions for resolutions on a report, while I am still working on my response to them that have to go to the Chamber. You must understand that that is an impossible situation for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u150	I have just indicated that I am quite prepared to hold my motion on segregation in education until our WHO on Monday, and I hope the Minister has also heard that point. I look forward to discussing these very important points with the Minister on Monday and next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u151	At the request of Mrs Van den Hul, I propose her motion (27923, No. 312). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr President, I have advised against all three because the same applies to all three motions. The first is indeed about the report on Monday. The other two motions are on a subject on which I have promised the Chamber another letter. It'll be there very soon, but it's not ready yet. So as far as I am concerned, my assessment of these three motions remains the same. Then Mr. Kwint. He has tabled the fourth motion, which is in part No. 313. Mr Kwint talks about the job evaluation and the salary that should be attached to it. If you value a job, it is indeed important that you also provide a salary that is part of the job evaluation you have estimated for the person concerned. I didn't want to dive for that, I didn't want to jump or whatever kind of metaphor we could use. But this is the stage in which the schools are going to end up when it comes to the application of what they have agreed on paper and what should ultimately be done on an individual level. As you know, the functional wage building is owned by the social partners and is therefore determined by the collective agreement. You know that in the p.o. new job descriptions have been made. So they are topical and they do, I think, more justice to the function of teacher. I have also said warm words about this. That even led to some discussion with the Chamber. The function gravity is ultimately determined using the function rating. Linking a reward to that is the stage in which the schools now end up. So now we have to make choices on an individual level. That's really got to happen in that place, so I'm gonna dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u153	I can't stop thinking it's a miraculous argument. As soon as 270 million is available, the cabinet says cheerfully: that is for teachers' salaries. At the moment when employers and employees find that 'we can take that step but not yet the final step towards equalization, because that is what the money is missing', the Minister suddenly says: it is up to the schools. Or it's all about the schools, which are totally about the salary. Or, and that is my firm conviction, it is up to politics. It makes the financial space available, which says 'we want this money to go there', as happened with the 270 million for teachers' salaries and with over 450 million for the workload. Then we can simply say that we believe that this should be equal pay and that in the coming years we are not asking anyone that it should be settled next week to work towards the creation of financial space that makes it possible to equalise teachers in primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u154	It is really going to be a rather complicated discussion, in the sense that there can also be differences between schools, even between schools, in the way their teachers are scaled up. There are many aspects that play a role in this; I have already said something about them in the first period. It may have to do with the age of teachers, with the level at which they have been recruited, with the question of whether they can continue to grow, with all kinds of additional qualifications they have achieved, which makes the school's competent authority scale them higher. So it can even be very different between vo-schools. That can also be very different between p.o. schools. Of course, you end up with a budget that you have to deal with, but it's up to the competent authority to make choices. I can't go in there. I do know one thing, namely that with the extra money that has now been made available, the many extra money; I gave you the calculations and I am also pleased to hear that no more questions have been asked about the percentages; so they are clear that the schools have much more opportunities to scale and value teachers in a different way than at present with the old collective agreement. That is a huge profit, and we have been able to contribute to it. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u155	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u156	It will be a complicated discussion because the Minister makes it very complicated. Equal starting points. My economics teacher used to call it ceteris paribus. P. o. and vo. Same age, same experience. Does the Minister think that they deserve equal pay? That's a very simple question. Everything around it sounds like noise to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u157	That's not noise. I think you're suggesting it too simple. In a school there are so many different people who have sometimes come into education with so many different perspectives. They have different experiences, different additional qualifications, perhaps, also different ages, although that is not in itself all-determine when it comes to scaling up, because ultimately the function needs to be looked at and whether the person concerned can also perform that function. Then it is up to the competent authority of the school, in close consultation with the mr, who must also be actively involved, to me that the social partners also want to make the choices at that level. The additional funds made available will enable us to take steps which have not yet been possible under the old collective agreement. That's just profit. Let's establish that with each other, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u158	Good. This is a motion. This is a second term. So we're not going to have the discussion again. I'm gonna take a look at the minister, too. Did he answer all the questions? Because questions were also asked during the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u159	I've got a few more motions here that I need to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u160	Those are the motions on the items Nos. 314 and 315. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u161	The motion in part No. 313 I dealt with this. I'll come to the motion in part No. 314. That is Mrs Westerveld's motion on the silent reserve. I heard Mrs Westerveld say: I haven't heard so much about it. We spoke extensively not so long ago about how to deal with the shortage of teachers. I have also indicated that I am going to send a letter to the Chamber before recess to which this will also be part. And then I'll do something that wasn't even an appointment with you, because we didn't actually have to send the Chamber another progress report until autumn, October, November. But since I think it is really an important topic to stay in conversation with you about, I have come up with this before. This part will, of course, also be involved, because it does indeed have the potential to succeed in relation to the large deficits that exist. I therefore reject this motion at the moment, but as far as I am concerned, this issue is urgent and will be back soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u162	I understand the Minister's response. If, in that letter, he wishes to comment separately on the question of what we are going to do to address that silent reserve, then I shall continue with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u163	At the request of Mrs Van den Hul, I propose her motion (27923, No. 310). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u164	In Mrs Westerveld's last motion, that is the motion in part No. 315 The request for teachers' teams to be given a clear place in the formulation of the agreements in the collective agreement. Reference is made to how this goes with the work pressure agreement. We are indeed, as we see it now, quite content about that. I come across some examples from time to time that I think: well, it's good that we have a hotline, because something has to be done here. For example, there are schools where people are told that the money is not structural and that a certain approach would therefore not be possible. That is not true, of course, and you must contradict it. But also in the context of how it works with collective agreements and the responsibility of the social partners to ultimately ensure that it is implemented together, I am not going to let it be neatly formulated in such a way as to do so as you ask. Within the school, of course also from the mr, there are all kinds of responsibilities and opportunities to talk to them about the implementation of this kind of thing. I can assure you that I will say to the social partners and, in particular, to the PO Council that we would appreciate it very much if they actively gave the teachers, the support staff and whoever is involved, a place in the choices that are being made, also in order to be as transparent as possible towards their staff. I can promise you that. In view of the more definite wording, I would advise against the motion, but I will take the subject into account in the discussions I have with them, also in accordance with the powers and responsibilities associated with such processes. Mr. Chairman. With that commitment Mrs Westerveld must do it as far as I am concerned. I do not recommend the motion, but we will get on with the subject because she does have a point. They must also be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u165	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u166	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
